U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Agency FinAnciAl RepoRt
F i s c a l

Y e a r

2 0 1 5

About This Report
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 Agency
Financial Report (AFR) provides financial and high-level performance results that
enable the President, Congress and the public to assess the SEC’s accomplishments
and understand its financial picture. This report satisfies the reporting requirements
contained in the following laws and regulations:
•

Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002

•

Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, as amended by the Reports Consolidation
Act of 2000

•

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act Section 922
Whistleblower Protection, and Section 963 Annual Financial Controls Audit

•

Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended

•

Federal Financial Management Improvement Act of 1996

•

Federal Managers Financial Integrity Act of 1982

•

Government Management Reform Act of 1994

•

GPRA Modernization Act of 2010

•

Improper Payments Information Act of 2002, as amended by Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery
Act of 2010 and Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act of 2012

•

Office of Management and Budget Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal Controls

•

Office of Management and Budget Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements

•

Recovery Auditing Act, Section 831, Defense Authorization Act, for 2002

For the fourth year in a row, the SEC is producing an AFR, with a primary focus on financial results, and an Annual
Performance Report (APR), which focuses on strategic goals and performance results, in lieu of a combined
Performance and Accountability Report. The FY 2015 APR will be included in the SEC FY 2017 Congressional Budget
Justification available in February 2016. Additionally, SEC will publish a Summary of Performance and Financial
Information (SPFI), also to be released in February 2016. This AFR and prior year SEC AFRs are electronically
available at www.sec.gov/about/secreports.shtml. To comment on this report, email SECAFR@sec.gov.

Certificate of Excellence in Accountability Reporting
The SEC’s FY 2014 AFR received the Certificate of
Excellence in the Accountability Reporting (CEAR)
from the Association of Government Accountants,
which represents the ninth year in a row the SEC
has received this honor. The award
is presented to Federal
Government agencies
whose annual reports
achieve the highest
standards demonstrating
accountability and
communicating results. In
addition, the SEC received
a Best in Class Award for the
Most Responsive Explanations
and Actions for Prior Year CEAR
Recommendations.

CERTIFICATE OF
EXCELLENCE IN
ACCOUNTABILITY
REPORTING
®

Presented to the

U.S. Securities
and Exchange
Commission
In recognition of your outstanding
efforts in preparing the Agency Financial
Report for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2014.

A Certificate of Excellence in Accountability Reporting is presented
by AGA to federal government agencies whose Agency
Financial Reports achieve the highest standards demonstrating
accountability and communicating results.

CERTIFICATE OF
EXCELLENCE IN
ACCOUNTABILITY
REPORTING
®

BEST-IN-CLASS AWARD
Presented to the

U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission
In recognition for Providing the

Most Responsive Explanations and Actions for
Prior Year CEAR Recommendations
in your FY14 Agency Financial Report

Robert F. Dacey, CGFM, CPA
Chair, Certificate of Excellence
in Accountability Reporting Board

Robert F. Dacey, CGFM, CPA
Chair, Certificate of Excellence
in Accountability Reporting Board

Ann Ebberts, MS, PMP
Chief Executive Officer, AGA

Ann M. Ebberts, MS, PMP
Chief Executive Officer, AGA

Contents
Message from the Chair

2

Introduction to the Agency Financial Report

4

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
Mission, Vision, Values and Goals	
History and Purpose	
Organizational Structure and Resources	
Fiscal Year 2015 in Review	
Looking Forward
Financial Highlights	
Performance Highlights	
Verification and Validation of Performance Data	
Strategic and Performance Planning Framework	
Performance Achievements	
Management Assurances and Compliance with Laws	
Annual Assurance Statement	
Management’s Assessment of Internal Control
Other Reviews
Financial Management Systems Conformance
Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA)

5
6
8
9
13
34
40
48
48
48
50
53
53
54
54
55
55

Financial Section
Message from the Chief Financial Officer	
Report of Independent Auditors	
Enclosure I: Management’s Response to Audit Opinion
Financial Statements	
Notes to the Financial Statements	
Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited)	
Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements	
Notes to the Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements	

57
58
59
65
68
74
103
106
108

Other Information
Combined Schedule of Spending (Unaudited)
Inspector General’s Statement on Management and Performance Challenges	
Management’s Response to Inspector General’s Statement	
Summary of Financial Statement Audit and Management Assurances	
Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act Reporting Details	
Civil Monetary Penalties Inflation Adjustment

115
116
118
129
135
136
138

Appendices
Appendix A: Chair and Commissioners	
Appendix B: Major Enforcement Cases	
Appendix C: SEC Divisions and Offices	
Appendix D: Glossary of Selected Terms	
Appendix E: Acronyms	

141
142
145
160
162
167

Available on the Web at www.sec.gov/about/secafr2015.shtml
To contact the SEC, please see www.sec.gov or “Contact Us” at www.sec.gov/contact.shtml.
To comment on this report, email SECAFR@sec.gov.
For further information on selected terms and topics, please see “Fast Answers” at www.sec.gov/answers.shtml.

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIR

Message from the Chair
Throughout the past year,

reporting and trading security-based swaps, required credit

the more than 4,000

risk retention for asset-backed securities, advanced new

talented public servants

executive compensation disclosures, and adopted new

of the U.S. Securities and

rules to facilitate smaller securities offerings, among other

Exchange Commission

steps. We also took action in areas outside the Dodd-

have diligently carried out

Frank Act and JOBS Act, proposing enhanced data and

the agency’s mission to

liquidity requirements for asset management firms, finalizing

protect investors, foster

requirements for the use of technology by exchanges

capital formation and

and other key market participants, and proposing new

promote fair, orderly and

regulations for proprietary trading firms.

efficient markets.
Because of our work this last fiscal year, the Commission has
The Commission’s accomplishments in Fiscal Year (FY) 2015

now essentially completed all of its mandatory rulemaking

were many and significant. The Commission vigorously

in six of the eight most significant areas requiring SEC

pursued wrongdoing in the markets through a broad-

action by the Dodd-Frank Act: the regulation of private

based enforcement program, proposed and adopted major

fund advisers; restrictions on proprietary trading; enhanced

reforms to protect investors and markets from products

standards for clearing agencies; a new regulatory framework

and practices that contributed directly to the financial crisis,

for municipal advisors; better regulation of credit rating

enhanced our risk-based, data-driven examination program,

agencies and credit ratings; and expanded regulation

and deployed new technology and data analytics to increase

and credit risk retention for asset-backed securities. The

the efficiency and effectiveness of our programs.

Commission is working to finalize rules for the remaining two
areas: security-based swaps and executive compensation.

Through these efforts and much more, the SEC works

The Commission has also completed all of its significant

to ensure that our capital markets are the strongest in

rulemaking under the JOBS Act.

the world.
Our enforcement program continued building an impressive
This past year, we continued to focus on advancing

record this year by bringing 807 cases and obtaining orders

rulemakings required under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street

for $4.2 billion in penalties and disgorgement. Enforcement

Reform and Accountability Act (Dodd-Frank) and the

efforts were focused on important areas of concern, including

Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act as well as

financial reporting and accounting fraud and illegal practices

on important discretionary policy initiatives. Under these

by broker-dealers and investment advisers, bringing first-

statutory mandates, we adopted major new rules for

of-their kind cases in these and other areas. The program

2

MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIR

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

continued to expand its use of innovative analytical tools

In today’s evolving marketplace, the dedicated women and

to leverage data to detect and investigate complex and

men at the SEC are working hard to meet the changes we

intricate violations of the Federal securities laws.

face. The accomplishments of FY 2015 are a testament to
the staff and Commission’s unyielding commitment to our

Over the past year, our examination teams conducted nearly

mission. As we look ahead to the next year, we will build

2,000 formal examinations of registrants, an increase over

upon these efforts, strive to do more, continue adapting to

each of the prior five fiscal years. Our examinations resulted

the ever-changing markets, and do all of this in the most

in the return of approximately $120 million to investors.

effective way possible.

I am pleased to report the SEC’s independent auditors, the
Government Accountability Office, issued an unmodified
audit opinion on the SEC’s financial statements and has

Mary Jo White

affirmed that the agency’s financial statements are presented

Chair

fairly in all material respects, in conformity with the U.S.

November 13, 2015

generally accepted accounting principles. Based on our
review, we can confirm that the financial and performance
data presented in this report are complete, reliable and
conform to the Office of Management and Budget guidance.

3

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

INTRODUCTION TO THE AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Introduction to the Agency Financial Report
The SEC Agency Financial Report (AFR) is organized in
the following three major sections, plus supplemental
appendices.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis
This section provides an overview of SEC’s history, mission,
organization, strategic goals and objectives, a review of
the SEC’s significant achievements in Fiscal Year 2015,
forward looking information, performance highlights and a
summary of financial information. This section concludes
with management’s assurance on internal controls, financial
systems and controls, and compliance with laws and
regulations.

Financial Section
This section contains a message from the Chief Financial
Officer followed by the independent auditor’s report
on our principal financial statements, management’s
response to the audit report, audited financial statements
and accompanying notes, and required supplementary
information. Concluding this section are stand-alone
comparative financial statements and accompanying notes
for the Investor Protection Fund as required by the DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.

4

Other Information
This section contains the statement prepared by the
agency’s Office of Inspector General (OIG) summarizing
what the OIG considers to be the management and
performance challenges facing the agency, followed by
the SEC Chair’s response outlining the agency’s progress
in addressing the challenges. Also included are a Summary
of Financial Statement Audit and Management Assurances,
listing internal control material weaknesses and financial
systems non-conformances; a schedule of spending
showing how and where the SEC spends its funds;
a detailed explanation of any significant erroneous payments
and overpayments recaptured as required by the Improper
Payments Information Act of 2002, as amended; and a
table displaying the most recent inflationary adjustments
to civil monetary penalties as required by the Federal Civil
Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990, as amended.

Appendices
This section includes biographies of the SEC Chair and
Commissioners, a summary of the SEC’s major enforcement
cases, a listing of the SEC divisions and offices, a glossary
defining selected technical terms contained in the AFR, and
a list of acronyms used within the AFR.

ManageMent’s Discussion
anD analysis

T

he U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) serves as a brief
overview of the agency’s mission, organization, goals, and the 2015 program and financial performance:

•	 Mission, Vision, Values and Goals: The listed mission, vision

•	 Performance Highlights: Explains the SEC’s strategic and

and values statements as set forth in the SEC’s Strategic Plan

performance planning framework, discusses the process

establishes the direction the SEC is undertaking in meeting

used to verify and validate the performance results contained

its four strategic goals.

in the Agency Financial Report (AFR), displays the FY 2015

•	 History and Purpose: Provides background on the SEC
and responsibilities for overseeing the nation’s securities
markets and certain primary participants.
•	 Organization Structure and Resources: Highlights the SEC’s
office locations, organization, employment statistics, and a
summary of programs by responsible divisions and offices.

operating costs by strategic goal, summarizes the FY 2015
performance results by strategic goal, and highlights key
performance accomplishments.
•	 Management Assurances and Compliance with Other
Laws: Provides management’s assessment and assurances
on the SEC’s internal controls related to the Federal Manager’s
Financial Integrity Act of 1982 (FMFIA) and our compliance

•	 Fiscal Year 2015 in Review: Provides a summary of SEC’s

with the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act

efforts in pursuing its mission in Fiscal Year (FY) 2015.

(FFMIA) related to compliance of our financial systems with

•	 Looking Forward: An overview of actions the SEC will
continue to focus on, as part of its on-going regulatory and
oversight responsibilities.
•	 Financial Highlights: Provides an overview of the SEC’s
financial information, including an analysis of the financial
data presented in the audited financial statements. The
sources and uses of SEC’s funds and the limitations of the
financial statements are also explained.

Federal requirements. Also addressed is our compliance with
Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) and
other laws and regulations.

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Mission, Vision, Values and Goals
MISSION

The mission of the SEC is to protect investors, maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets,
and facilitate capital formation.

VISION

The SEC strives to promote a market environment that is worthy of the public’s trust and
characterized by:
•	 Transparent disclosure to investors of the risks of particular investments;
•	 Oversight of key market participants, including exchanges, brokers and dealers,
investment advisers, and others;
•	 Focus on strengthening market structure and systems;
•	 Promotion of disclosure of market-related information;
•	 Protection against fraud and abuse; and
•	 Evaluation, development, and maintenance of appropriate rules and regulations.

VALUES

Integrity: As the SEC is the independent Federal agency entrusted with regulating and conducting
enforcement for the U.S. securities markets, each member of the Commission’s workforce has a
responsibility to demonstrate the highest ethical standards to inspire confidence and trust.
Excellence: The SEC is committed to the highest standards of excellence in pursuit of its mission.
The investing public and the U.S. securities markets deserve nothing less.
Accountability: The SEC embraces the responsibility with which it is charged. In carrying out its
mission, SEC employees hold themselves accountable to the public and take responsibility for
achieving SEC goals.
Effectiveness: The SEC strives to work creatively, proactively, and effectively in assessing and
addressing risks to the securities markets, the public, and other market participants. The staff is
committed to finding innovative and flexible approaches to the SEC’s work and using independent
judgment to explore new ways to fulfill the SEC’s mission in the most efficient and effective
manner possible.
Teamwork: The SEC recognizes that its success depends on a diverse, coordinated team committed
to the highest standards of trust, hard work, cooperation, and communication. The staff is committed
to working together and coordinating effectively with investors, business, governments, and other
organizations in the U.S. and abroad.
Fairness: The SEC treats investors, market participants, and others fairly and in accordance with
the law. As an employer, the SEC seeks to hire and to retain a skilled and diverse workforce, and
to ensure that all decisions affecting employees and applicants are fair and ethical.

6

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Strategic Goals and Strategic Objectives
Strategic Goal 1: Establish and maintain an effective
regulatory environment
Strategic Objective 1.1: The SEC establishes and
maintains a regulatory environment that promotes highquality disclosure, financial reporting and governance,
and that prevents abusive practices by registrants,
financial intermediaries and other market participants.
Strategic Objective 1.2: The SEC promotes capital
markets that operate in a fair, efficient, transparent and
competitive manner, fostering capital formation and
useful innovation.
Strategic Objective 1.3: The SEC adopts and
administers regulations and rules that are informed by
robust economic analysis and public comment and that
enable market participants to understand clearly their
obligations under the securities laws.
Strategic Objective 1.4: The SEC engages with
a multitude of stakeholders to inform and enhance
regulatory activities domestically and internationally.

Strategic Goal 2: Foster and enforce compliance
with the Federal securities laws
Strategic Objective 2.1: The SEC fosters compliance
with the Federal securities laws.

Strategic Goal 3: Facilitate access to the information
investors need to make informed investment
decisions
Strategic Objective 3.1: The SEC works to ensure that
investors have access to high-quality disclosure materials
that facilitate informed investment decision-making.
Strategic Objective 3.2: The SEC works to understand
investor needs and educate investors so they are better
prepared to make informed investment decisions.

Strategic Goal 4: Enhance the Commission’s
performance through effective alignment and
management of human, information and financial
capital
Strategic Objective 4.1: The SEC promotes a resultsoriented work environment that attracts, engages, and
retains a technically proficient and diverse workforce,
including leaders who provide motivation and strategic
direction.
Strategic Objective 4.2: The SEC encourages a
collaborative environment across divisions and offices
and leverages technology and data to fulfill its mission
more effectively and efficiently.
Strategic Objective 4.3: The SEC maximizes the use
of agency resources by continually improving agency
operations and bolstering internal controls.

Strategic Objective 2.2: The SEC promptly detects and
deters violations of the Federal securities laws.
Strategic Objective 2.3: The SEC prosecutes violations
of Federal securities laws and holds violators accountable
through appropriate sanctions and remedies.

7

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

History and Purpose
During the peak of the Depression, Congress passed the
Securities Act of 19331 (Securities Act). This law, along
with the Securities Exchange Act of 19342 (Exchange Act),
which created the SEC, was designed to restore investor
confidence in our capital markets by providing investors
and the markets with more reliable information and clear
rules of honest dealing. The main purposes of these laws
were to ensure that:
• Companies publicly offering securities for investment
dollars must tell the public the truth about their
businesses, the securities they are selling, and the
risks involved in investing.
• People who sell and trade securities – brokers,
dealers and exchanges – must treat investors fairly
and honestly, putting investors’ interests first.
The SEC is responsible for overseeing the nation’s securities
markets and certain primary participants, including brokerdealers, investment companies, investment advisers,
clearing agencies, transfer agents, credit rating agencies,
and securities exchanges, as well as organizations such
as the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA),
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB), and Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB). Under the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act3 (Dodd-Frank Act), the agency’s jurisdiction was
expanded to include certain participants in the derivatives
markets, private fund advisers, and municipal advisors,
among other changes.

The SEC consists of five presidentially appointed
Commissioners, with staggered five-year terms. One
of them is designated by the President as Chair of the
Commission (see Appendix A: Chair and Commissioners).
President Franklin Delano Roosevelt appointed Joseph P.
Kennedy to serve as the first Chairman of the SEC.
By law, no more than three of the Commissioners may
belong to the same political party. The Commission
convenes regularly at meetings that are open to the
public and the news media unless the discussion pertains
to confidential subjects, such as whether to begin an
enforcement investigation.
Each year, the SEC brings hundreds of civil enforcement
actions against individuals and companies for violation of
securities laws. Examples of infractions include insider
trading, accounting fraud, and providing false or misleading
information about securities or the companies that issue
them. One of the major sources of information that the
SEC relies on to bring enforcement action is investors
themselves – another reason that educated and careful
investors are critical to the functioning of efficient markets. To
help inform investors, the SEC offers the public a wealth of
educational information on its website at www.investor.gov,
as well as an online database of disclosure documents at
www.sec.gov/edgar/searchedgar/companysearch.html that
public companies and other market participants are required
to file with the SEC.

1

Securities Act of 1933 www.sec.gov/about/laws/sa33.pdf

2	

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 www.sec.gov/about/laws/sea34.pdf

3 	

Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act www.sec.gov/about/laws/wallstreetreform-cpa.pdf

8

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Organizational Structure and Resources
SEC Office Locations
The SEC’s headquarters are in Washington, DC, and the agency has 11 regional offices located throughout the country.
The regional offices are responsible for investigating and litigating potential violations of the securities laws. The offices
also have examination staff, who inspect regulated entities such as investment advisers, investment companies and
broker-dealers. The map below shows the locations of the regional offices, and the states that are included in each region.

CHART 1.1

SEC HEADQUARTERS AND REGIONAL OFFICE LOCATIONS

Chicago
New York

Salt Lake
San Francisco

Boston

Philadelphia

Denver

SEC Headquarters

Los Angeles
Fort Worth

Atlanta

Miami
SEC Headquarters
Atlanta Regional Office

Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Alabama

Boston Regional Office

Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Vermont, Rhode Island

Chicago Regional Office

Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, Wisconsin

Denver Regional Office

Colorado, Kansas, Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota, South Dakota, Wyoming

Fort Worth Regional Office

Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Kansas (except for the exam program which is
administered by the Denver Regional Office)

Los Angeles Regional Office

Arizona, Hawaii, Guam, Nevada, Southern California (zip codes 93599 and below, except for 93200-93299)

Miami Regional Office

Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana, U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico

New York Regional Office
New York, New Jersey

Philadelphia Regional Office

Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, District of Columbia

Salt Lake Regional Office
Utah

San Francisco Regional Office

Washington, Oregon, Alaska, Montana, Idaho, Northern California (zip codes 93600 and up, plus 93200-93299)

9

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

SEC Organization Structure
The SEC is an independent Federal agency established pursuant to the Exchange Act. It is headed by a bipartisan
five-member Commission, comprised of the Chair and four Commissioners, who are appointed by the President and
confirmed by the Senate (see Appendix A: Chair and Commissioners). The Chair serves as the chief executive. The agency’s
functional responsibilities are organized into five divisions and 23 offices, each of which is headquartered in Washington,
DC. The SEC also has 11 regional offices which are comprised primarily of staff from the national enforcement and
examination programs.
In Fiscal Year (FY) 2015, the agency employed 4,301 full-time equivalents (FTE), including 4,078 permanent and 223 other
than permanent FTEs. The SEC organization chart below is as of September 30, 2015.

CHART 1.2

SEC ORGANIZATION CHART
Chair
Commissioner

Enforcement

Corporation
Finance

General
Counsel

Inspector
General

Atlanta
Regional
Office

10

Investment
Management

Economic and
Risk Analysis

International
Affairs

Boston
Regional
Office

Chicago
Regional
Office

Investor
Advocate

Commissioner

Trading &
Markets

Administrative
Law Judges

Investor
Education &
Advocacy

Denver
Regional
Office

Office of the
Chair

Chief
Accountant

Legislative
& Intergovernmental
Affairs

Commissioner

Commissioner

Chief
Operating
Officer

Minority and
Women
Inclusion

Credit
Ratings

Municipal
Securities

Equal
Employment
Opportunity

Public Affairs

Ethics
Counsel

Compliance
Inspections &
Examinations

Salt Lake
Regional
Office

San Francisco
Regional
Office

Secretary

Acquisitions

Financial
Management

Human
Resources

Information
Technology

Support
Operations

Fort Worth
Regional
Office

Los Angeles
Regional
Office

Miami
Regional
Office

New York
Regional
Office

Philadelphia
Regional
Office

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

SEC Programs
The SEC organizes its divisions and offices under the 10 major programs outlined below in Table 1.1, SEC Programs and
Program Descriptions.
TABLE 1.1
SEC PROGRAMS AND PROGRAM DESCRIPTIONS
Program

Divisions and Offices

Program Descriptions

Enforcement

Division of Enforcement and
enforcement staff within the
SEC’s regional offices

This program investigates and brings civil charges in Federal district
court or in administrative proceedings based on violations of the Federal
securities laws. An integral part of the program’s function is to seek
penalties and the disgorgement of ill-gotten gains in order to return funds
to harmed investors. Also organized within the Enforcement program
is the Office of the Whistleblower, created under the Dodd-Frank Act to
administer the SEC’s Whistleblower Program that rewards individuals who
provide the agency with tips that lead to successful enforcement actions.

Compliance
Inspections and
Examinations

Office of Compliance Inspections
and Examinations and examinations
staff within the SEC’s regional
offices

This program conducts the SEC’s examinations of registrants such
as investment advisers, investment companies, broker-dealers, selfregulatory organizations (SROs), credit rating agencies, transfer agents,
and clearing agencies.

Corporation
Finance

Division of Corporation Finance

This program performs functions to help investors gain access to
materially complete and accurate information about companies and the
securities they offer and sell, and to deter fraud and misrepresentation in
the public offering, trading, voting, and tendering of securities.

Trading and
Markets

Division of Trading and Markets

This program conducts activities to establish and maintain standards for
fair, orderly and efficient markets, while fostering investor protection and
confidence in the markets.

Investment
Management

Division of Investment Management

This program seeks to minimize the financial risks to investors from fraud,
mismanagement, self-dealing, and misleading or incomplete disclosure
in the investment company and investment adviser segments of the
financial services industry.

Economic and
Risk Analysis

Division of Economic and Risk
Analysis

The division provides economic analyses as part of the Commission’s
rulemaking process; supports its rule review, examination and
enforcement programs with data-driven, risk-based analytical methods;
and oversees its Tips, Complaints and Referrals (TCR) and interactive
data programs.

General Counsel

Office of the General Counsel

The Office of the General Counsel (OGC) serves as the chief legal officer
of the Commission and provides independent legal analysis and advice
to the Chair, Commissioners, and operating divisions on all aspects
of the Commission’s activities. The General Counsel also defends the
Commission in Federal district courts, represents the Commission in
all appellate matters and amicus curiae filings, and oversees the SEC’s
bankruptcy program.
(Continued on next page)

11

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

TABLE 1.1 Continued from previous page
Program
Other Program
Offices

Divisions and Offices
•	 Office of the Chief Accountant;

Program Descriptions
These offices are responsible for:

•	 Office of Investor Education and
Advocacy;

•	 Serving as the chief advisor to the Commission on all accounting and
auditing policy and overseeing private sector standards setting;

•	 Office of International Affairs;

•	 Serving investors who contact the SEC, ensuring that retail investors’
perspectives inform the Commission’s regulatory policies and
disclosure program, and improving investors’ financial literacy;

•	 Office of Administrative Law
Judges;
•	 Office of the Investor Advocate;
•	 Office of Credit Ratings; and
•	 Office of Municipal Securities

•	 Administering the rules of the Commission with respect to the
practices of municipal securities brokers and dealers, municipal
advisors, and investors in municipal securities, and the practices
of nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (NRSROs),
including examinations of NRSROs;
•	 Advancing international regulatory and enforcement cooperation,
promoting converged high regulatory standards worldwide, and
facilitating technical assistance programs in foreign countries; and
•	 Adjudicating allegations of securities law violations.

Agency Direction
and Administrative
Support

•	 The Chair and Commission;
•	 Office of Legislative and
Intergovernmental Affairs;
•	 Office of Public Affairs;
•	 Office of the Secretary;
•	 Office of the Chief Operating
Officer;

•	 Working with Members of Congress on issues that affect the
Commission;

•	 Office of Financial Management;

•	 Coordinating the SEC’s communications with the media, the general
public, and foreign visitors;

•	 Office of Information
Technology;
•	 Office of Human Resources;
•	 Office of Acquisitions;
•	 Office of Support Operations;
•	 Office of the Ethics Counsel;
•	 Office of Minority and Women
Inclusion; and
•	 Office of Equal Employment
Opportunity
Inspector General

The Chair is responsible for overseeing all aspects of agency operations,
and the Chair and Commissioners are responsible for the review and
approval of enforcement cases and formal orders of investigation and
the development, consideration, and execution of policies and rules.
The other offices in Agency Direction and Administrative Support are
responsible for:

Office of Inspector General

•	 Reviewing all documents issued by the Commission, and preparing
and maintaining records of Commission actions;
•	 Maximizing the use of SEC resources by overseeing the strategic
planning, information technology, procurement, financial
management, records management, human resources, and
administrative functions of the agency;
•	 Ensuring that the SEC is an equal opportunity employer in full
compliance with all Federal equal employment opportunity laws; and
•	 Enhancing the diversity of the SEC’s workforce, contractors, and
regulated entities in accordance with existing Federal laws and
regulations.
The Office of Inspector General (OIG) is an independent office that conducts audits of programs and operations of the SEC and investigations
into allegations of misconduct by staff or contractors. The mission of OIG
is to detect fraud, waste, and abuse and to promote integrity, economy,
efficiency, and effectiveness in the SEC’s programs and operations.

As shown in the Statements of Net Cost on page 69, the SEC presents its net costs of operations by the programs outlined
above, consistent with the presentation used by the agency in submitting its budget requests.
12

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Fiscal Year 2015 in Review
Continuing the Commitment to Excellence
Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 marked another strong year of
achievement for the SEC under the leadership of Chair
Mary Jo White. The SEC rose to the challenges of a growing
mandate and increasingly complex marketplace through
strong and effective rulemakings; innovative strategies
for vigorous enforcement; enhanced examinations and
oversight; a deepened determination to oversee the most
complex and rapidly evolving corners of the financial
markets; enhancing traditional priorities including investor
education and international cooperation; and a dedication
to more efficient operations by the agency itself.

Making Safer, Stronger Markets through
Focused Rulemaking
In FY 2015, the SEC focused on advancing both important
discretionary policy initiatives and rules required under the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Accountability Act
(Dodd-Frank) and Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS)
Act in those areas that are central to investor protection
and strong markets. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the
Commission completed major new rules for reporting and
trading security-based swaps, required credit risk retention
for asset-backed securities, removed references to credit
ratings in money market fund rules, and advanced a suite
of executive compensation disclosures. Under the JOBS
Act, the Commission adopted new rules to facilitate smaller
securities offerings. Beyond these statutory mandates,
the Commission moved ahead with a broad program for
enhancing the regulation of asset management, continuing
efforts on equity market structure with final controls for
technology use at key market participants, and new
proposed regulations for proprietary trading firms.

Prosecuting a High-Impact, Broad-Based
Enforcement Program
The Enforcement Division (Enforcement) continued to build
an impressive record of cases that spanned the spectrum of
the securities industry. Using powerful, innovative analytical
and data tools, the SEC focused its aggressive enforcement
efforts on key areas of growing concern such as financial

Chair Mary Jo White

reporting and accounting fraud, improper conduct by key
market participants and illegal practices by broker-dealers
and investment advisers. The Commission also continued
to identify and address new issues in compliance with
the Federal securities laws, bringing “first-ever” cases in
gatekeeper responsibility, whistleblower protection, private
equity, market structure, municipal bonds, securities-based
swaps, dark pool disclosure, and credit ratings agencies.

Enhancing a Risk-Based, Data-Driven
Examination Program
The Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
(OCIE) continued to promote compliance through a multilevel outreach program and to detect and prevent fraud
through an increasingly sophisticated examination process.
OCIE expanded its abilities to analyze massive amounts of
data from registrants to detect potential violations, from
hiring skilled technologists to improving the National Exam
Analytics Tool (NEAT) that enables examiners to access and
systematically analyze such data. Through these efforts, its
annual statement of examination priorities, meetings with
senior management, public risk alerts, and other channels,

13

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OCIE strengthened its program to identify, communicate,
and address those risks at registrants that can most place
investors and markets at risk.

Building Efficient, Effective Commission Programs
with Data and Technology
Across these areas and others, the Commission deployed
new technology and data to increase the efficiency and
effectiveness of its programs. In enforcement, investigations
were supported by innovative tools devised to analyze
large volumes of data to identify potentially fraudulent
trade allocations, unravel order books to detect abusive
trading, and track wrongdoers across national borders.
In rulemaking, analyses of securities offerings, the securitybased swap market, and asset management helped inform
policy choices and calibrate Commission proposals.
In examinations, NEAT and other tools were deployed
to leverage limited resources to assess risks and identify
deficiencies across billions of transactions and hundreds
of firms. Core operations of the Commission were also
improved, with significant new updates to the Electronic
Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system and
enhancements to agency infrastructures like the Enterprise
Data Warehouse.
Throughout the agency, the SEC’s talented and dedicated
staff are creating and embracing new tools and technology,
deploying new and innovative strategies to protect investors,
keep markets safe and encourage capital formation – more
effectively than ever before.

Transformative Policy Initiatives for Safer,
Stronger Markets
During FY 2015, the Commission advanced critical reforms
to protect investors and build stronger markets, including
addressing products and practices that contributed directly
to the financial crisis.
With the efforts of the last fiscal year, the Commission
has now completed all of its mandatory rulemaking in
six of the eight most significant areas targeted for SEC
action by the Dodd-Frank Act: the regulation of private
fund advisers; restrictions on proprietary trading; enhanced
standards for clearing agencies; a new regulatory
framework for municipal advisors; better regulation of

14

credit rating agencies and credit ratings; and credit risk
retention for asset-backed securities. The SEC is also
actively in the process of completing final rules for the
remaining two areas: security-based swaps and executive
compensation rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act – pay
versus performance, employee and director hedging and
compensation clawbacks.
With the adoption in FY 2015 of final rules for smaller
offerings, the Commission has also nearly completed its
mandatory rulemaking under the JOBS Act.

Security-Based Swaps
The Commission has put in place the foundation for
the regulation of trade reporting and dissemination for
security-based swaps, adopting a new set of rules for
the registration, duties, and core principles of securitybased swap data repositories and a second set of
rules that prescribe reporting and public dissemination
requirements for security-based swap transaction data.
In addition, the Commission re-proposed rules to address
authorities’ access to data in trade repositories, including
a conditional exemption from a statutory indemnification
requirement.
The Commission also began finalizing rules for the
regulation of security-based swap intermediaries, adopting
new rules to provide a comprehensive, efficient process
for security-based swap dealers and major security-based
swap participants to register with the SEC. The new rules
address all aspects of the registration regime, setting forth
the set of information required to be provided and kept
up to date by registered entities. As part of this process,
the Commission also proposed rules to provide an
application process for security-based swap entities to
request continuation of security-based swap activities
through associated persons subject to certain adverse
legal actions, if doing so would be consistent with the
public interest.
Furthering efforts to address the cross-border application of
Commission rules in the security-based swap market, the
Commission also proposed rules governing the application
of certain requirements to security-based swap transactions
connected with a non-U.S. person’s dealing activity in the
United States.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Executive Compensation
In FY 2015, the Commission adopted a rule requiring
issuers to disclose the ratio of the compensation of its
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) to the compensation of its
median employee. The Commission also proposed a full
suite of executive compensation rules required by the
Dodd-Frank Act, addressing the disclosure of hedging
policies, disclosure of the relationship between executive
compensation and an issuer’s performance, and exchange
listing standards for the recovery of erroneously awarded
compensation, commonly referred to as a “clawback.”

Equity Market Structure and Critical
Market Infrastructure
Beginning a new phase of rulemaking to enhance the
U.S. equity market structure, the Commission adopted
Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity (Regulation
SCI), which mandates comprehensive new controls to
strengthen key technological systems, promoting greater
transparency, resiliency, and accountability.
As a complement to this effort, the Commission approved
rules from the national securities exchanges and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) designed to
address specific areas where the robustness and resilience
of critical market infrastructure could be improved for the
equity and options markets, including the implementation
of trade break processes and procedures, kill switches
and other risk mitigation mechanisms. The Commission
staff also worked with the exchanges and FINRA, as well
as the securities information processors (SIPs), to identify
and implement long-term resilience, capacity, information
security, and testing/monitoring objectives for the SIPs;
establish an enhanced backup process for the SIPs in
the case of a primary SIP failure; improve SIP governance
and transparency; and assess and address the resilience
of other non-SIP critical market infrastructure systems. In
addition, the Commission staff continued to work with the
self-regulatory organizations (SROs) on rule amendments
and procedures addressing the issuance, effectiveness,
and communication of regulatory halts.
Beyond these efforts to enhance operational integrity, the
Commission continued its efforts to enhance equity market
structure by the following.

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•	 Launching the Market Structure Advisory Committee,
putting in place a formal mechanism through
which the Commission can receive advice and
recommendations specifically related to equity market
structure issues.
•	 Proposing rule amendments to require broker-dealers
trading in off-exchange venues become members of
a national securities association.
•	 Ordering the SROs to submit a tick size pilot plan that
would widen the quoting and trading increments for
certain small capitalization stocks. The plan is designed
to generate data that would allow the Commission and
the public to evaluate whether a widened tick improves
the market quality for small capitalization stocks.
•	 Receiving and assessing a proposed plan from the
exchanges and FINRA to implement the consolidated
audit trail (CAT) pursuant to a rule previously adopted
by the Commission. The CAT is designed to capture
customer and order event information for orders
in national market securities from the time of order
execution through routing, cancellation, modification,
or execution.

Asset Management
In FY2015, the Commission also began a wide-ranging
program to enhance its regulation of investment advisers
and registered funds. In May 2015, the Commission
proposed rules to modernize and enhance the information
reported by investment companies and investment
advisers. The new rules would enhance the quality of
information available to the Commission and investors
and would allow the Commission to more effectively
collect and use data provided by investment companies
and investment advisers.
In September 2015, the Commission proposed reforms
to promote effective liquidity risk management throughout
the open-end fund industry. The proposed reforms would
require mutual funds and exchange-traded funds to
implement liquidity risk management programs and enhance
disclosure regarding fund liquidity and redemption practices
and also provide a framework under which mutual funds
could elect to use “swing pricing.”

15

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Securities Offerings and Securitization
The Commission also continued to implement statutory
mandates designed to enhance securities offerings and
strengthen securitization processes. Fulfilling a requirement
of the JOBS Act, the Commission adopted rules to increase
access to capital for smaller companies by enabling
companies to offer and sell up to $50 million of securities
within a 12-month period, a provision commonly called
“Regulation A+.” Also under the JOBS Act, the Commission
proposed new rules for registration and reporting thresholds
under Exchange Act Section 12(g).
With respect to securitization, the Commission, jointly with
five other Federal agencies, adopted credit risk retention
rules required by the Dodd-Frank Act that require sponsors
of asset-backed securities to keep “skin in the game” for
the securities they package and sell.

Disclosure Policy and Review
In FY 2015, the Commission issued a request for comment
on certain requirements in Regulation S-X, the first product
of the Division of Corporation Finance’s (Corporation
Finance) disclosure effectiveness initiative. The Division
has continued to advance this initiative, undertaking a
comprehensive review of the disclosure requirements and
seeking input from a broad range of market participants.
The staff is developing recommendations on how to update
the disclosure requirements to facilitate more effective
disclosure by companies to their shareholders. As part
of this review, staff members are coordinating with the
Financial Accounting Standards Board to identify ways
to improve the effectiveness of disclosures in corporate
financial statements and to minimize duplication with other
existing disclosure requirements.
In FY 2015, Corporation Finance also continued to work
to ensure that companies disclose material information
appropriately and effectively. Through its review program,
Corporation Finance continued to improve the effectiveness
of company disclosures and enhance investor protection
through focused comments on periodic reports and
offering documents, including the registration statements
for approximately 600 initial public offerings.

16

The Division also published significant interpretive guidance
to assist companies in improving their disclosures, such as
updates to Corporation Finance’s Financial Reporting Manual.

Aggressive and Innovative Approach
to Enforcement
In FY 2015, the SEC continued to build an impressive
record of cases that spanned the spectrum of the securities
industry. The SEC focused its aggressive enforcement
efforts on key areas of growing concern such as financial
reporting and accounting fraud, improper conduct by key
market participants and illegal practices by broker-dealers
and investment advisers. The SEC has also continued to
bring important cases involving market structure, insider
trading, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) violations and
misconduct related to complex financial instruments.
The SEC ended the year with 807 enforcement actions in
FY 2015 and obtained orders for $4.2 billion in penalties
and disgorgement. The quality, breadth, and impact of these
actions are demonstrated by the fact that the SEC brought
507 independent administrative proceedings and civil
injunctive actions, representing a 23 percent increase over
last fiscal year. The remaining cases brought were largely to
obtain bars on individual wrongdoers, one of the agency’s
more powerful tools to protect investors and the markets.

Leveraging Data Tools and Analysis
Enforcement’s extremely strong fiscal year was due in
no small part to the use of innovative analytical tools to
leverage data to detect and investigate complex and
intricate violations of the Federal securities laws. As
violations of the Federal securities laws have become
harder to detect, Enforcement has focused on ways to
harness in-house expertise and data infrastructure to plumb
the depth of massive data sources and identify violative
conduct. Collaboration between Enforcement staff and
economists from the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis
(DERA) continued to be strong this year, bolstered by an
almost 20 percent increase in DERA staff dedicated to
enforcement matters. The two Divisions collaborated on
over 120 new projects in FY 2015, in matters involving
market manipulation, insider trading, structured products,
accounting fraud, and abusive practices by investment
advisers and brokerage firms.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

These efforts have culminated in a number of cases filed
during the past fiscal year where data tools and analysis
played a significant role in their origin or investigation, a
trend that Enforcement sees continuing into the following
fiscal year and beyond.
•	 During FY 2015, the SEC announced fraud charges
against a Wisconsin-based investment advisory firm,
and its owner for fraudulently “cherry-picking” winning
options trades. The fraudulent trading was identified
with help from DERA staff, who conducted a statistical
analysis to determine whether the trades at issue could
have resulted from a coincidental or lucky combination
of trades.
•	 The SEC charged 34 defendants in an action alleging
a scheme to profit from stolen nonpublic information
about corporate earnings announcements, which was
developed through the use of innovative analytical
tools designed to find suspicious trading patterns and
expose misconduct. Since filing the emergency action,
the SEC obtained a $30 million settlement from two
of the defendants.
•	 The SEC filed an emergency asset freeze against a
Bulgarian national, and four entities controlled by him,
who manipulated Avon stock through false tender
offer filings on EDGAR. In a matter of three weeks,
Enforcement staff tracked the filing to an IP address
located in Sofia, Bulgaria and were able to link the
filing and trading in a couple of accounts to an entity
controlled by the Bulgarian national.
•	 The SEC charged several individuals with insider
trading that was detected through its Analysis and
Detection Center, including a former J.P. Morgan
Chase investment bank analyst, and a consultant to
Panda Restaurant Group.

First-of-their Kind Cases
The SEC continued to blaze new trails in enforcement
of the Federal securities laws by bringing many first-oftheir-kind cases. These cases involved essential areas,
including gatekeepers, whistleblower protection, private
equity, market structure, municipal bonds, securities-based
swaps, dark pool disclosure, and credit ratings agencies
and are discussed below.

Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar

• First action involving admissions by an auditing firm.
The SEC charged BDO USA, LLP and five of the firm’s
partners, including national office personnel, with
dismissing red flags and issuing false and misleading
unqualified audit opinions about the financial statements
of staffing services company General Employment
Enterprises. To settle the matter, BDO agreed to admit
wrongdoing, pay disgorgement of its audit fees and
interest totaling approximately $600,000, and pay
a $1.5 million penalty in addition to complying with
undertakings related to its quality controls. Four of the
firm’s partners agreed to be suspended from practicing
public company accounting for various periods; all
five partners agreed to pay penalties ranging from
$10,000 to $30,000.
•	 First action charging a private equity adviser with
misallocating broken deal expenses. The SEC charged
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. (KKR) with misallocating
more than $17 million in so-called “broken deal”
expenses to its flagship private equity funds in breach
of its fiduciary duty. KKR agreed to a settlement
that included nearly $30 million in disgorgement,
prejudgment interest and penalties. This action
originated from an OCIE referral.

17

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•	 First action for failure to report a material compliance
matter to a fund board. The SEC charged Blackrock
Advisors LLC with breaching its fiduciary duty by
failing to disclose a conflict of interest created by the
outside business activity of a top-performing portfolio
manager. The SEC also charged Blackrock’s former
Chief Compliance Officer (CCO) with causing the
funds’ failure to report a material compliance matter
to the fund board and with causing Blackrock’s failure
to adopt and implement policies and procedures for
outside activities of employees. Blackrock paid a
$12 million penalty and agreed to hire an independent
compliance consultant, and the former CCO paid a
$60,000 penalty.
•	 First action brought under Distribution-in-Guise initiative.
The SEC charged New York-based investment adviser
First Eagle Investment Management and its affiliated
distributor, FEF Distributors, with improperly using
mutual fund assets to pay for the marketing and
distribution of fund shares. First Eagle and FEF agreed
to pay nearly $40 million to settle the SEC’s charges.
This action originated from an OCIE referral.
•	 First actions brought against underwriters under
Municipalities Continuing Disclosure Cooperation (MCDC)
initiative. The SEC charged 58 municipal underwriting
firms for violations in municipal bond offerings. To settle
the actions, the firms agreed to pay penalties ranging
from $20,000 to a maximum penalty of $500,000
and retain independent consultants to review each
firm’s policies and procedures on due diligence in the
municipal underwriting process.
•	 First action against underwriter for pricing-related
fraud in the primary market for municipal securities.
The SEC charged Edward Jones and the former head
of its municipal underwriting desk with overcharging
customers in connection with the sale of new municipal
bonds. Edward Jones agreed to a settlement that
included payment of over $20 million and the former
head of Edward Jones’ municipal underwriting desk
agreed to pay a $15,000 penalty and a two-year
industry bar. This action originated from an OCIE referral.

18

•	 First action charging violations of MSRB Rule G-15(f).
The SEC sanctioned 13 dealers for effecting customer
transactions in municipal securities in amounts below
the minimum denomination set for the issue. Each
of the 13 firms settled to terms including penalties
between $54,000 and $130,000.
•	 First action applying Dodd-Frank provisions limiting the
sale of security-based swaps. The SEC charged Sand
Hill Exchange, a Silicon Valley-based startup company,
and its two founders with offering and selling securitybased swaps contracts to retail investors outside the
regulatory framework of a national securities exchange
and without the required registration statements in
effect. The firm and its two founders agreed to a
settlement that included a $20,000 penalty.
•	 First action under Rule 21F-17. The SEC charged KBR,
Inc. with using confidentiality agreements or other
actions to impede a whistleblower from communicating
with the SEC. KBR agreed to a settlement that included
a $130,000 penalty and an agreement to undertake
reasonable efforts to contact employees in the U.S.
who signed the earlier version of the confidentiality
statement to inform them of the updated policy.
•	 First high frequency trading manipulation action. The
SEC charged Athena Capital Research with fraud
for using a complex algorithm that placed a large
number of aggressive, rapid fire trades in the final
two seconds of almost every trading day during a
six-month period to manipulate the closing prices of
thousands of NASDAQ-listed stocks. Athena paid a
$1 million penalty to settle the charges.
•	 First action to address violations arising from a dark
pool’s disclosure of order types to its subscribers. The
SEC charged a UBS subsidiary with disclosure and
other securities law violations related to the operation
and marketing of its dark pool. The subsidiary agreed
to pay over $14 million to settle the charges.
•	 First action against a Big Three credit rating agency.
The SEC charged Standard & Poor’s (S&P) in three
separate settled actions and the former head of S&P’s
Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities (CMBS)
ratings group with fraudulent misconduct in the ratings

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

of certain CMBS. To settle these actions, S&P agreed to
a settlement that included factual admissions, monetary
relief totaling $58 million to the SEC and $19 million
to authorities in New York and Massachusetts, and
agreed to undertake an overhaul of its internal controls
and retract public research concerning its ratings that
the SEC found to be fraudulent.

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

and misusing the confidential trading information of
dark pool subscribers. ITG and AlterNet agreed to
a settlement that included admissions, $2.2 million
in disgorgement and prejudgment interest, and an
$18 million penalty that is the SEC’s largest to date
against an ATS.

Insider Trading
Market Structure, Exchanges, and Broker-Dealers
During FY 2015, Enforcement continued to prioritize market
structure issues, bringing a number of significant actions
involving alternative trading systems (known as ATSs), stock
exchanges and other market participants to help ensure
that our markets continue to operate fairly and efficiently.
In order to bring such cases, Enforcement leveraged the
knowledge of its specialized units and task forces, pursued
creative ways to effectively use data and analytics, and filed
a number of significant actions against market participants
who threatened the fair and efficient operation of our markets
by flaunting the rules, examples of which follow below.
•	 The SEC brought actions against Morgan Stanley,
Goldman, Sachs & Co., and Latour Trading LLC under
Exchange Act Rule 15c3-5, known as the market
access rule, which obligates broker-dealers providing
market access to establish, document, and maintain a
system of risk management controls and supervisory
procedures reasonably designed to manage financial,
regulatory, and other risks of this business activity. Each
of the firms agreed to settle the SEC’s charges by
paying penalties ranging from $4 million to $8 million.
•	 The SEC charged two exchanges formerly owned by
Direct Edge with failing to accurately describe their order
types in SEC rule filings. The SEC obtained a penalty of
$14 million in settlement, which represents the largest
penalty to date assessed against an exchange.
•	 The SEC charged two Merrill Lynch entities with
using inaccurate data in the course of executing
short sale orders. To settle the SEC’s charges, Merrill
agreed to admit wrongdoing, pay nearly $11 million
in disgorgement, prejudgment interest and penalties,
and retain an independent compliance consultant.
•	 The SEC charged ITG Inc. and its affiliate AlterNet
Securities, Inc. with operating a secret trading desk

During FY 2015, Enforcement continued its pursuit of
individuals who misappropriate or trade unlawfully on
material, nonpublic information. In FY 2015, the SEC
charged 87 parties with insider trading actions, which
sends a strong message of deterrence to would-be
violators. Below are notable examples.
•	 The SEC charged an entrepreneur and private equity
investor and a general partner at a venture capital
firm with insider trading in shares of Cooper Tire and
Rubber Company ahead of an announcement that
the company would be acquired by Apollo Tyres in
a scheme that allegedly netted more than $1 million.
•	 The SEC charged a former Fortune 500 company
executive and his brother-in-law whom he allegedly
tipped with nonpublic information ahead of the
company’s merger.
•	 The SEC charged a former day trader, his two friends,
and his brother-in-law with a multi-million dollar serial
insider trading scheme involving numerous stocks
since at least 2010 and that allegedly generated more
than $4.4 million in unlawful profits.
•	 The SEC settled with a Swiss trader for trading on
nonpublic information ahead of a Florida-based
biometrics company’s acquisition by Apple. The trader
agreed to pay over $2.8 million in disgorgement,
prejudgment interest and a penalty, which is significant
due to the legal hurdles in obtaining penalties from
foreign nationals.

Financial Reporting/Accounting and Disclosure Fraud
Comprehensive, accurate, and reliable financial reporting
is the bedrock upon which our markets are based.
Because of this, rooting out financial and disclosure fraud
has always been an Enforcement priority, and FY 2015
was no exception. Enforcement actions in this area are

19

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

essential to ensuring public confidence in the securities
markets. The SEC’s notable actions in FY 2015 included
the following:
•	 Computer Sciences Corporation (CSC) paid a $190
million penalty to settle charges that it manipulated
financial results and concealed significant problems
with the company’s largest and most high-profile
contract. The SEC also charged eight former CSC
executives, including CSC’s former CEO and Chief
Financial Officer (CFO), all of whom have now settled
the charges by payment of over $5 million in clawbacks,
disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and penalties.
•	 Deutsche Bank AG paid a $55 million penalty to settle
charges that it filed misstated financial reports during
the height of the financial crisis that failed to take into
account a material risk for potential losses estimated
to be in the billions of dollars.
•	 The SEC charged Bankrate Inc. and three former
executives with allegedly falsely overstating its
second quarter 2012 net income. Bankrate and one
of the former executives agreed to pay more than
$15 million to settle the charges; litigation continues
against the other two former executives.
•	 The SEC charged MusclePharm Corp. and four
executives with series of disclosure and accounting
failures relating to perquisites, related parties,
executive bankruptcies, and other financial statement
requirements. The company and its executives
settled with the SEC by agreeing to payment of
approximately $850,000 in penalties and other
ancillary relief.
•	 The SEC charged ITT Educational Services and its
CEO and CFO with allegedly engaging in a fraudulent
scheme to conceal significant defaults associated
with ITT’s student loan programs.
•	 The SEC announced charges against Miller Energy
Resources Inc., its former CFO, and its current
Chief Operating Officer (COO) for allegedly inflating
values of oil and gas properties, resulting in fraudulent
financial reports for the Tennessee-based company.

20

•	 The SEC charged two former top executives of a
now-bankrupt online video management company,
accusing them of falsifying financial statements to
make the company appear more profitable than it
was in reality.
•	 The SEC announced charges against two former
top executives at Assisted Living Concepts Inc.
for allegedly listing fake occupants at some senior
residences in order to meet the requirements of a
lease to operate the facilities.
•	 Two former CFOs of Saba Software agreed to reimburse
the company for almost $500,000 in bonuses and
stock sale profits under Section 304 of the SarbanesOxley Act of 2002, which requires officers to reimburse
the company for such compensation received while
misconduct occurred.

Gatekeepers
Gatekeepers are integral to protecting investors in our
financial system because they are best positioned to detect
and prevent the compliance breakdowns and fraudulent
schemes that cause investor harm. During FY 2015,
Enforcement remained focused on potential violations by
gatekeepers, examples of which follow below.
•	 The SEC charged current and former broker-dealer
subsidiaries of E*Trade Financial Corporation and
Oppenheimer & Co. for failing in their gatekeeper
roles in connection with unregistered sales of microcap
stocks. The E*Trade subsidiaries agreed to pay over
$2.5 million in disgorgement, prejudgment interest and
penalties, and Oppenheimer agreed to a settlement
that included a $20 million penalty and admissions.
•	 The SEC also brought significant actions against
auditing firms for violating auditor independence rules:
■■

The SEC sanctioned eight auditing firms for violating
auditor independence rules when they prepared the
financial statements of brokerage firms that were
their audit clients. The audit firms each settled,
agreed to remedial undertakings, and agreed to
pay a total of $140,000 in penalties.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

■■

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

The SEC charged Deloitte & Touche LLP with
violating auditor independence rules when
its consulting affiliate maintained a business
relationship with a trustee serving on the boards
and audit committees of three of Deloitte’s audit
clients. Deloitte settled with the SEC by agreeing to
payment of more than $1 million in disgorgement,
prejudgment interest, and penalties.

•	 The SEC charged MusclePharm Corp.’s former audit
committee chair who substituted his own uninformed
view of legal requirements for those of an outside
expert, resulting in an incorrect disclosure; he settled
the charges by paying a $30,000 penalty.
•	 The SEC charged 14 accountants and 10 attorneys
for their roles in aiding perpetrators of microcap
fraud, including the SEC’s charges against two
attorneys, two audit firms, and seven auditors for their
involvement in a microcap scheme involving the filing
of 20 false and misleading registration statements.

Microcap Fraud
During FY 2015, Enforcement broadened its efforts
to combat microcap fraud to encompass significant
actions involving international schemes, professionals
associated with microcap frauds, and recidivist offenders.
Enforcement’s efforts in this area are included below.
•	 Suspending trading in 334 issuers, including 128
issuers arising from a microcap fraud-fighting initiative
known as Operation Shell-Expel.
•	 Charging a Canadian citizen with conducting a scheme
to conceal his control and ownership of a microcap
company Cynk Technology Corp., a company with no
assets that claimed to operate a social networking site
and whose trading the SEC suspended after Cynk’s
stock price shot up significantly.
•	 Charging a securities lawyer who used his New
York law office as the headquarters for planning
and implementing three penny stock manipulation
schemes. The attorney agreed to a settlement that
included payment of approximately $4.6 million in
disgorgement and prejudgment interest, anti-violation
injunctions and a penny stock bar.

Commissioner Michael S. Piwowar

•	 Charging a recidivist microcap promoter, arising from
his alleged role in the illegal sale of more than 83 million
penny stock shares, which he accumulated through
at least 10 different offshore front companies, for
proceeds of at least $21 million.
•	 Charging 34 entities and individuals in an alleged
massive microcap manipulation scheme that
included unregistered Costa Rica-based firms acting
as broker-dealers for U.S.-based customers who
engaged in various “pump and dump” schemes to
sell their penny stock shares to the public at artificially
inflated prices.

Municipal Securities
In addition to the three first-of-their-kind actions brought by
the SEC involving participants in the municipal securities
market discussed above, the SEC also charged the City
of Allen Park (a suburb of Detroit) and its administrator
with making false and misleading representations in
offering documents for the city’s issuance of $31 million
in general obligation bonds, and Allen Park’s mayor as a
“controlling person” of his city. Allen Park, its mayor and
its administrator settled the SEC’s action, which included
payment of a $10,000 penalty by the mayor.

21

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Investment Advisers
Investment advisers and the funds they manage – which
touch the lives of the investing public every day as they
invest in funds and seek advice about investing in our
markets to reach their financial goals – remained a key
focus of Enforcement during FY 2015. Enforcement brought
actions against a wide range of investment advisers,
including those who failed to disclose conflicts of interest,
engaged in fraudulent conduct, and otherwise breached
their fiduciary duties to their clients. Examples, in addition
to the actions against Blackrock, First Eagle, and KKR
listed above, include:
•	 The SEC charged investment management firm
F-Squared Investments and its co-founder and
former CEO with defrauding investors through false
performance advertising about its flagship product.
To settle the matter, F-Squared agreed to admit
wrongdoing and pay disgorgement and a penalty
of $35 million. The SEC’s litigation against the firm’s
co-founder and former CEO is continuing.
•	 The SEC charged a New York City-based investment
adviser with fraud for allegedly stealing $20 million
from customers that he then lost in unprofitable
options trading.
•	 The SEC charged Interinvest Corp., an investment
advisory firm purporting to manage almost $95 million
in client assets, and its owner with funneling more
than $17 million in client assets into four financially
troubled Canadian penny stock companies in which
the owner had undisclosed business and financial
interests.
•	 The SEC charged Patriarch Partners, the firm’s CEO,
and three other entities with fraud in overvaluing
assets in three collateralized loan obligations.

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA)
The SEC continued to focus on enforcement of the
antibribery and anticorruption laws in FY 2015 and brought
a number of significant actions against both companies
and individuals.

22

•	 The SEC charged Bio-Rad Laboratories, Inc. (BioRad) with violating the FCPA when its subsidiaries
made improper payments to foreign officials in Russia,
Vietnam, and Thailand in order to win business.
Bio-Rad, which self-reported its misconduct and
extensively cooperated during the investigation, agreed
to pay $55 million to settle the SEC’s charges and a
parallel action announced by the U.S. Department of
Justice (DOJ).
•	 The SEC charged Avon Products Inc. with violating the
FCPA by failing to put controls in place to detect and
prevent payments and gifts to Chinese government
officials from employees and consultants at a
subsidiary. The company agreed to pay $135 million
to settle charges brought by the SEC and DOJ and
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of
New York.
•	 The SEC charged BHP Billiton with violating the
FCPA when it established a hospitality program for
foreign government officials to attend the 2008 Beijing
Olympics. The company agreed to settle the charges
by paying a $25 million penalty and reporting on its
FCPA compliance program for one year.
•	 The SEC charged BNY Mellon with FCPA violations
arising from internships provided to family members
of foreign government officials affiliated with a
Middle Eastern sovereign wealth fund. BNY Mellon
agreed to a settlement that included payment of
disgorgement, prejudgment interest and a penalty
totaling $14.8 million. This was the first FCPA action
against a financial institution and the first involving
hiring practices.
•	 The SEC also brought FCPA-related charges against
two former employees in the Dubai office of FLIR
Systems Inc., an officer of PBSJ Corporation, and the
former vice president of global and strategic accounts
for SAP SE, all of whom settled by collectively paying
over $200,000 in penalties and disgorgement.

Complex Financial Instruments
In FY 2015, the SEC brought a number of actions involving
complex financial instruments, which built on the SEC’s
already strong record of pursuing financial crisis-related
cases.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•	 The SEC charged two Citigroup affiliates with defrauding investors in two hedge funds that collapsed during
the financial crisis. The Citigroup affiliates agreed to
a settlement that included payment of approximately
$180 million in disgorgement and prejudgment interest
to aggrieved investors. The SEC charged three senior
residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) traders
at the broker-dealer Nomura Securities International,
Inc. (Nomura) with fraud arising from their making, and
directing others to make, misrepresentations to Nomura
customers in dozens of RMBS trades. The staff also
entered into deferred prosecution agreements with three
midlevel Nomura traders.

Jury Trial Victories
Enforcement had a number of important jury trial victories
in FY 2015.
•	 Following a six-week trial, in December 2014 a jury
returned a verdict in favor of the SEC on its fraud
claims against BankAtlantic Bancorp, now known as
BBX Capital Corporation, and its CEO Alan Levan. The
case arose from fraud charges against BankAtlantic
and Mr. Levan concerning the state of the bank’s
loan portfolio early in the financial crisis. Following
the remedies phase of the proceedings, the court
entered final judgments against BBX and Mr. Levan
ordering permanent injunctive relief as to both BBX
and Mr. Levan, a $4.55 million penalty as to BBX, and
a two year officer-and-director bar (effective 90 days
from the court’s ruling) and a $1.3 million penalty as
to Mr. Levan.
•	 Following a five-day trial, in November 2014, the SEC
received a favorable jury verdict against Charles Kokesh,
who was found liable for defrauding four business
development companies of tens of millions of dollars.
Following the remedies phase of the proceedings, the
court entered a final judgment against Mr. Kokesh,
ordering him to pay disgorgement, prejudgment
interest and a penalty totaling over $55 million.
•	 The SEC received a jury verdict finding Willie Gault
liable for filing false certifications with the SEC and
knowingly circumventing the company’s internal

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

controls. The charges against Mr. Gault arose from his
role as co-CEO of HeartTronics, Inc., a company that
claimed to sell a heart monitoring device. Proceedings
regarding remedies are ongoing and were not resolved
during FY 2015.
•	 The SEC received a favorable jury verdict finding
George Levin liable for fraud in connection with his
and his companies’ purchase of discounted legal
settlements in the form of promissory notes and
limited partnership interests offered by Ft. Lauderdale
attorney Scott Rothstein, which turned out to be nonexistent and comprised one of the largest-ever Ponzi
schemes in South Florida. Following the verdict, the
court entered judgment against Mr. Levin and ordered
him to pay approximately $50 million in disgorgement,
prejudgment interest and a penalty.
•	 The SEC received a favorable jury verdict finding
Ralph Pirtle, the former Director of Real Estate for
Philips Electronics North America, Inc., a whollyowned subsidiary of Royal Philips, N.V., and his
friend and business associate, Morando Berrettini,
liable for insider trading in the securities of two
companies that were acquisition targets for Philips.
Proceedings regarding remedies were not resolved
during FY 2015.

International Enforcement
In coordination with the SEC’s Office of International Affairs
(OIA), Enforcement continued to expand its international
enforcement efforts. FY 2015 included several significant
actions, discussed above, involving cooperation with the
SEC’s law enforcement and regulatory counterparts both
at home and abroad.
OIA’s enforcement cooperation and assistance team
handled 929 requests from Enforcement for international
assistance, 531 requests for assistance from foreign
regulatory and law enforcement authorities, and
826 tips, complaints and referrals with international
aspects (incoming and outgoing). The SEC also opened
20 formal investigations to assist its foreign regulatory
counterparts.

23

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Continued Excellence in the
Examination Program
OCIE plays a critical role in protecting investors and the
integrity of our capital markets. Every year, OCIE examiners
conduct risk-based examinations of many kinds of registered
entities, including broker-dealers, investment advisers,
investment companies, national securities exchanges,
SROs, transfer agents, and clearing agencies, to evaluate
their compliance with applicable regulatory requirements.
OCIE uses the findings from these examinations to address
deficiencies directly with registrants and, more broadly, to
improve industry compliance, detect and prevent fraud,
inform policy, and identify risks.
In FY 2015, OCIE conducted nearly 2,000 formal examinations of registrants, an increase over each of the prior five
fiscal years. As described below, in addition to examinations,
OCIE also performed thousands of desk reviews to evaluate
the business activities of its registrants. OCIE’s examinations resulted in the return of approximately $120 million
to investors.

Developing Technology and Data Analytics
In FY 2015, OCIE continued to make significant enhancements in data analytics. This effort has made OCIE more
efficient and effective in analyzing massive amounts of data
from registrants to detect potential violations of laws, rules,
and regulations.
OCIE’s Risk Analysis and Surveillance Group (RAS) has
aggregated and analyzed data from SEC filings concerning
registrants and individuals to identify activity that
may warrant examination. In FY 2015, RAS significantly
furthered its data analysis and monitoring efforts to surveil
data from sources internal and external to the Commission,
including, for example, data collected by or filed with other
regulators, SROs, and exchanges, as well as information
that registrants provide to data aggregators regarding, for
example, their business activities and marketing-related
efforts. This expanded data collection and analysis has
not only enhanced OCIE’s ability to identify operational
red flags throughout entire industries – such as firms
with aberrant swings in reported assets under management, changes in key individuals, business activities, and
affiliates, migration of bad actor industry participants,

24

and other possible indicia of heightened risk – but has
also enabled examiners to better understand each firm’s
business activities prior to conducting an examination.
Other OCIE teams have also leveraged technology to
evaluate large amounts of data for signs of fraud and
suspicious activity. OCIE has hired highly skilled technologists
in its Quantitative Analytics Unit (QAU) to develop tools that
bring powerful analytic capabilities to each examiner in
the National Examination Program. In FY 2015, the QAU
further improved NEAT which enables examiners to access
and systematically analyze years’ worth of a registrant’s
trading data in minutes. QAU has also been developing
technologies to help examiners detect suspicious activity in
areas such as money laundering and high frequency trading
that will further expand and enhance OCIE’s capabilities to
fight and deter fraud.
OCIE’s Risk Analysis Examination (RAE) Team continues
to leverage technology using its specialized skills and
examination experience to conduct examinations of
some of the nation’s largest broker-dealers. By analyzing
transactions cleared by firms over several years, RAE
has identified problematic behavior across multiple firms,
including unsuitable recommendations, misrepresentations,
inadequate supervision, churning, reverse churning, and
load waivers.

Continuing to Promote and Improve
Industry Compliance
OCIE improves industry compliance with the Federal
securities laws and promotes better industry risk
management practices through examinations,
communication, and outreach initiatives with the industry.
•	 OCIE published its annual public statement of
examination priorities to inform investors and
registrants about areas that the staff believes present
heightened risk and to support the SEC’s mission.
The examination priorities were selected through
a collaborative process in which OCIE’s senior
management and senior representatives of other SEC
Divisions and Offices worked side-by-side to analyze
and perform a risk-based assessment of information
from a number of sources. This included information
reported by registrants in required filings and gathered
through examinations; communications with other

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Federal, state and foreign regulators; comments and
tips received from investors and registrants; thirdparty databases; interactions with industry groups
and service providers outside of examinations; and
industry and media publications.
•	 OCIE issued six public “Risk Alerts”:
■■

■■

■■

■■

■■

■■

Broker-Dealer Controls Regarding Customer Sales
of Microcap Securities (October 9, 2014)
Cybersecurity Examination Sweep Summary
(February 3, 2015)
OCIE’s Never-Before Examined Registered
Investment Company Initiative (April 20, 2015)
Retirement – Targeted Industry Reviews and
Examinations Initiative (June 22, 2015)
Broker – Dealer Controls Regarding Retail Sales of
Structured Securities Products (August 24, 2015)
OCIE’s 2015 Cybersecurity Examination Initiative
(September 15, 2015)

•	 OCIE conducted over 100 outreach conferences with
the industry and securities regulators, both regionally
and nationally, and OCIE staff appeared at more
than 150 events in order to promote transparent
communications and coordination among industry
participants and regulators.
•	 OCIE engaged directly with senior management,
heads of control functions, and independent directors
of the largest broker-dealer holding companies and
management organizations to emphasize the critical
role of compliance in those institutions’ enterprise risk
management.
•	 OCIE launched a number of focused examination
initiatives to promote compliance and increase
awareness of regulatory risks with certain entities. For
example, OCIE commenced an initiative to examine
investment companies that have been registered with
the Commission for at least three years, but have not
yet been examined. OCIE also expanded its initiative
to focus on newly registered Municipal Advisors that
registered under SEC rules, which went into effect
during FY 2014.

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Continuing to Identify and Prevent Fraud
OCIE identifies and prevents fraud and other misconduct
through examinations. When OCIE uncovers information in
an examination that establishes or suggests misconduct,
examiners refer the matter to Enforcement for investigation
and appropriate action. In FY 2015, OCIE made more than
200 referrals, many of which resulted in enforcement investigations and/or actions. Notable examples of enforcement
actions that have involved OCIE referrals are described below.
•	 An examination in Fort Worth led to charges against
H.D. Vest Investment Securities for violations of
key customer protection rules after the firm failed
to adequately supervise registered representatives’
outside business activities. The Commission found
that some representatives used their outside business
to defraud brokerage customers by transferring or
depositing customer brokerage funds into their outside
business accounts.
•	 With significant assistance from the National Exam
Program, the Commission charged Citigroup Global
Markets with failing to enforce policies and procedures
to prevent and detect securities transactions that could
involve the misuse of material, nonpublic information.
The firm also failed to adopt and implement policies
and procedures to prevent and detect principal
transactions conducted by an affiliate. The firm agreed
to pay a $15 million penalty.
•	 Based on an examination, the Commission charged
co-owners of a Manhattan-based brokerage firm,
Arjent LLC, with violating the antifraud and books
and records provisions of the Federal securities laws.
The CEO and managing director attempted to keep the
failing firm afloat by selling shares in a holding company,
misrepresenting to investors the value of the affiliate’s
assets, and misrepresenting how their invested money
would be used. The co-owners transferred a significant
portion of the capital they raised directly into their own
bank accounts for personal benefit. In addition, the
CEO made misrepresentations to SEC examiners.
•	 The Commission settled administrative and ceaseand-desist proceedings against a registered adviser,
Alpha Titans LLC, its principal and its general counsel
for non-scienter fraud, custody rule, and compliance

25

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

charges. The OCIE examination identified that the
adviser and key individuals used assets of two affiliated
private funds to pay for most of the firm’s operating
expenses, but it did not seek clear investor authorization to do so. The funds’ financial statements provided
to investors also were misleading because they did
not disclose the use of the funds’ money by entities
its principal controlled.
•	 The Commission settled administrative and ceaseand-desist proceedings against a registered adviser,
Commonwealth Capital Management LLC, and its
principal and the independent trustees of a registered
fund, World Funds Trust, for their failures in connection
with the advisory contract approval process.
•	 The Commission settled administrative proceedings
against a registered adviser, AlphaBridge Capital
Management LLC, and its two principals for their
fraudulent inflation of the prices of mortgage-backed
securities held by certain private funds managed by
AlphaBridge. These inflated prices resulted in the
overstatement of the funds’ net asset values and
overcharging of fees to the funds. AlphaBridge claimed
to value the securities based on independent price
quotes from two broker-dealers, but AlphaBridge
instead provided its own prices to representatives of
the broker-dealers.
In order to be more effective in identifying and preventing
fraud in examinations, OCIE continues to broaden its expertise and capacity. In addition to developments in technology
and analytics, OCIE has implemented specialized working
groups (SWGs) in nine key areas: (1) Equity Market Structure
and Trading Practices; (2) Fixed Income and Municipals;
(3) Marketing and Sales Practices; (4) Microcap Fraud;
(5) New and Structured Products; (6) Valuation; (7) Private
Funds; (8) Transfer Agents; and (9) Investment Companies. The SWGs are an invaluable resource to examiners
and managers, providing subject matter expertise in their
respective areas. OCIE has also established a Private Funds
Unit, which is led by OCIE’s hedge fund and private equity
senior specialized examiners. The Private Fund Unit not
only conducts risk-based examinations of private fund
advisers, but, through the participation of its leadership
team, provides experience and training for examiners to
enable them to become subject matter experts.

26

Continuing to Inform Policy
As the SEC’s “eyes and ears” in the field, OCIE uses its
perspective to provide structured support to the rulemaking
process and other guidance issued by the SEC, and its
Divisions and Offices.
•	 OCIE provided substantial input into the Commission’s
Dodd-Frank rulemaking process participating in nine
working groups to interface with the policy divisions
on such rulemaking such as the adopting and
re-proposing rules under Title VII concerning swap
data repositories and cross-border swap transactions.
•	 In addition to its contributions to Dodd-Frank rulemaking, OCIE staff participated in 17 other rulemakings and initiatives, including (i) the final adopting
rules for Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity
(Regulation SCI); (ii) the proposed rules amending Form
ADV and investment adviser rules; and (iii) the proposed
rules related to modernizing the reporting and disclosure
of information by registered investment companies.
•	 OCIE also provided useful information from examinations to the rulemaking divisions of the SEC for a
number of other purposes. For example, OCIE staff
highlighted to divisions instances in which, based on
observations in examinations registrants have misinterpreted the rules and instances in which more
guidance may be needed. OCIE staff also provided
valuable insight into certain risk management practices
and profiles.

Continuing to Identify New and Emerging Risks
OCIE continues to improve its ability to assess and monitor
risk. Because OCIE’s examination programs are risk-based,
these enhanced capabilities have enabled each program to
better allocate its limited resources to high-risk firms and
practices. In addition to the developments in technology
and analytics described above, the following are examples
of OCIE initiatives to monitor and examine for new and
emerging risks.
•	 OCIE has continued to expand the use of targeted
examinations as a technique to explain potential
sources of risk, such as:

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

■■

■■

■■

■■

■■

■■

■■
■■

■■

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

The potential misuse by mutual funds of payments
to intermediaries as payment for distribution;
Compliance policies and procedures and investment
and trading controls of mutual funds with significant
exposure to interest rate increases;
Compliance programs and other risk areas of
never-before examined investment advisers and
investment companies;
The use of purported “alternative” investment
strategies by registered investment companies;
Representations of investment advisers and brokerdealers and sales practices when recommending to
customers a movement of retirement plan assets
into rollover vehicles;
Broker-dealers’ compliance with Exchange Act
Rule 15c3-5 when having direct market access
to exchanges or ATSs;
The potential for excessive trading;
Any interaction between payments for order flow
and execution quality; and
Cybersecurity practices of broker-dealers and
investment advisers.

•	 OCIE continued its monitoring and examination efforts
with respect to some of the nation’s largest brokerdealers. Among other things, OCIE has coordinated
efforts within the Commission and with other
regulators to increase coverage in important areas
affecting these broker-dealers, such as operational
risk, technology governance, automated trading and
controls, liquidity risk management, and effectiveness
of control functions, including strategic initiatives
to remediate control deficiencies and meet future
enhanced requirements.
•	 Other examples of RAS’s efforts to identify new and
emerging risks include:
■■

•

Close collaboration throughout the Commission,
including within OCIE, the regions, the DERA and
other offices, to focus examinations on registrants
and practices that pose the greatest risk to capital
markets and investors; and

Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher

■■

Techniques to analyze information submitted by
private fund advisers on Form ADV and Form PF,
as well as disciplinary and employment histories
of “bad actors” in the financial industry to identify
risks to investors and the markets.

•	 Developing initial intelligence on individuals associated
with newly registered Municipal Advisors to identify
entities that may have an elevated risk profile
and could warrant examination. OCIE’s QAU has
continued to develop OCIE’s quantitative system
architecture through software projects. The QAU has
supported individual exam teams nationwide and the
development of improved risk identification methods.
•	 OCIE’s Technology Controls Program (TCP) continues
to develop its technology controls examination
program investing in our people, tools, and processes.
TCP is the center of excellence for the SEC to provide
surveillance and examination oversight of market
technology, which promotes well-functioning markets
and supports investor confidence. OCIE leverages
TCP’s strong technology knowledge base to support
other examination programs nationally, including
serving as technical experts for exam teams. TCP
has also regularly liaised with other regulators to share

27

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

identified technology risks and communicate those
within the Agency as appropriate.
•	 OCIE’s Office of Market Oversight continued its
successful approach to monitoring and assessing
risk at the national securities exchanges and FINRA.
Examinations in this area included reviews of the
regulatory service agreements and equity order
types at the exchanges and FINRA district offices, as
well as FINRA home office enforcement. The Market
Oversight Office also conducted examinations of many
registrants to ensure compliance with Section 31 of the
Exchange Act, which requires each SRO to pay certain
fees to the Commission based on the aggregate dollar
amount of certain sales of securities.
•	 OCIE improved collaboration efforts in other areas
with divisions and offices throughout the SEC to
help ensure that higher risk activities and issues
are addressed in the most effective manner. For
example, OCIE coordinates efforts and utilizes data
produced by the Risk and Examinations Office in
the Division of Investment Management (Investment
Management) to identify and address higher risk firms
and activities. OCIE also regularly shares examination
trends, findings, and industry observations with other
offices in order to identify mutual areas of interest
and concern.
OCIE has expanded efforts to coordinate processes
with other regulators and agencies, including FINRA, the
DOJ, the Department of Labor, banking regulators, state
regulators and foreign regulators, on a number of matters.
Among other things, this type of coordination helps ensure
that all regulators are informed about ongoing risks and
issues related to broad market practices as well as specific
entities of mutual interest.

Deploying Economic and Risk Analysis
to Advance the Commission’s Mission
DERA has continued to expand its provision of datadriven economic analyses to the Commission and its staff,
work that is marked by collaboration with other offices
and divisions. As the financial markets have increased
in complexity, so has the need for the Commission to be
a sophisticated user of market data. DERA is central to

28

those efforts, analyzing data to support an ever-broadening
array of policy development and risk assessment initiatives;
acting as a key source of insight for fellow regulators and
the public on issues relevant to the capital markets; and
assisting with the development of methods to ensure the
usability of data as it comes into the Commission or is
accessed by the public.

Support of Rulemaking and Policy Development
DERA staff provided the Commission with complex and
novel economic analyses of the many rules promulgated
in the past year, and worked closely with staff from other
divisions and offices on a range of policy initiatives, engaging
from the earliest stages of policy development through
finalization of a particular rule. As part of these efforts, DERA
staff have designed and implemented a significant number
of original, data-driven analyses intended to educate both
the Commission and the public on important issues.
For example:
•	 DERA has worked closely with Corporation Finance
on a variety of rules under the JOBS Act and the
Dodd-Frank Act, including those affecting executive
compensation and capital raising. For these rules,
DERA examined a range of data drawn from issuer
filings and performed novel data analyses to help
inform the Commission and the public of the potential
economic effects of the rules. DERA also developed
two significant analyses for the pay ratio rulemaking
that modeled the potential effects on the pay ratio
calculation of excluding a percentage of employees
at a range of thresholds.
•	 DERA also worked with Investment Management
to support rulemaking related to fund liquidity
requirements for open-end mutual funds. A paper by
DERA staff examined the investor flows into and out
of open-ended funds, estimated the liquidity profile
of the fund portfolios, and considered how those two
characteristics interact.
•	 Data analyses by DERA helped frame policy choices
related to the activities and participants in the
security-based swap market. DERA staff continued
to update the Commission and public’s knowledge
of the security-based swap market, including by

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

providing information related to transaction volume
and participation in the credit default swap market.

easily consuming the XBRL data for analysis. DERA
continues to update this data quarterly.

•	 DERA also collaborated with the Division of Trading
and Markets to produce two memoranda related
to post-trade transparency in the security-based
swap market. The data analyses directly informed
discussions surrounding the costs and benefits of public
dissemination of security-based swap transaction data.

•	 DERA continue to work to improve the quality and
usefulness of registrant disclosures by supporting the
design and implementation of machine-readable forms
and filings adopted through Commission rulemaking,
where appropriate.

•	 DERA issued a white paper on voluntary clearing
activity in the single-name credit default swap (CDS)
market. The paper provides an analysis of trading and
clearing activity for single-name corporate CDS and
has informed the Commission’s policy choices on a
number of rulemakings.

Data Management and Analytics
DERA serves as a hub for the Commission’s overarching
approach to the intake, processing, and use of data.
A massive amount of market data comes into the Commission
on a regular basis, and DERA’s staff economists, analysts,
institutional experts, database administrators and other
technologists serve as experts on how to ingest, process,
and then use these data for analytical purposes.
DERA has worked closely with other offices and divisions
to ensure SEC filings capture the legal requirements of
mandatory disclosures in a form that makes the information
most useable to investors, regulators, analysts, and others.
In addition, the following several key initiatives from the
past year have enhanced the public and Commission’s
use of data:
•	 DERA finished the development of a new eXtensible
Business Reporting Language (XBRL) rendering engine
that replaced the engine used since the Commission
began accepting filings with XBRL attachments. The
updated rendering engine enables filers to quickly
render and evaluate their XBRL exhibits, helping to
detect errors in advance of submission.
•	 This winter, DERA posted on the Commission’s
website reformatted financial information that was
reported by companies in their filings in XBRL format.
This downloadable data assists the public with more

DERA manages key Commission databases and ensures
agency-wide staff access to these data through readily
available formats and applications, and transforms that
data into relevant summary information and statistics
accessible to non-technical staff. For the past two
years, DERA has overseen the Quantitative Research
Analytical Data Support (“QRADS”) program, which further
develops and refines high-quality financial market data for
advanced analytics and data-driven initiatives across the
Commission. QRADS projects have expanded over the
past year and allow non-technical agency staff to generate
user-friendly reports drawn from data on funds, brokerdealers, advisors, and other market participants to help
achieve the SEC’s mission.

Identification of Financial Market Risks
and Misconduct
DERA’s Office of Risk Assessment (ORA) was formally
chartered in Fall 2014 to develop customized analytic tools
to proactively detect market risks indicative of possible
violations of the Federal securities laws.
ORA experts have created analytic programs designed to
identify risks, enabling Commission divisions and offices
to deploy scarce resources targeting possible misconduct
in the corporate issuer, broker-dealer, and fund sectors.
In particular, the Corporate Issuer Risk Assessment
allows staff to identify anomalous patterns in financial
reporting that warrant further inquiry by highlighting outliers
among earnings quality measures, financial ratios, and
other financial statement items. The Broker-Dealer Risk
Assessment tool was developed in conjunction with OCIE
and helps support examinations in that area and provide
key insights into the market. In addition, ORA experts
have undertaken ad-hoc analyses in the corporate bond,
high frequency trading and fixed income trading areas,
responding to particular areas of need from other staff
across the agency.

29

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Enhancing Financial Markets Expertise

McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst to support Military Consumer
Protection Day 2015;

DERA staff author a rich body of papers for publication
in finance, economics, accounting, and other journals on
topics related to the Commission’s mission. DERA staff
members also attend significant conferences on topics
critical to the SEC’s mission, presenting their own work
and discussing the work of others. This interplay between
DERA staff and the public helps ensure that the SEC’s policy
development, surveillance activity, and examination work
reflect the most current industry innovations and up-to-date
understanding of financial market risks.

•	 Posting educational content to Investor.gov, including
information emphasizing the importance of checking
the registration status of an investment professional
before investing. In FY 2015, Investor.gov continued
to receive high customer satisfaction scores,
which significantly exceeded Federal government
benchmarks, and attracted over 1.2 million new
visitors, an increase of 20 percent compared to
FY 2014;

Over the past year, DERA has facilitated several programs
to allow for ongoing access to cutting-edge research. For
example, DERA hosted more than 15 academics from
leading universities in FY 2015 to present their research
at the SEC, covering a broad range of topics relevant to
the SEC. Similarly, under the Distinguished Visiting Scholar
series, senior academics visit the SEC for a week at a time,
and present seminar series and have extensive meetings
with staff across the agency.

•	 Publishing a variety of investor alerts and bulletins
warning investors of possible fraudulent schemes,
and educating them on investment-related matters.
The SEC worked with other regulators to issue
joint alerts and bulletins, including SEC-FINRA
alerts on automated investment tools and dormant
shell companies and an SEC-Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau bulletin on planning for diminished
capacity and illness;

In collaboration with the University of Maryland and the
Chartered Financial Analyst Institute, DERA co-sponsored
the Second Annual Conference on the Regulation of
Financial Markets in FY 2015. This conference brought
together participants from academia and the SEC for a
robust exchange of views on issues of relevance to the
Commission.

•	 Distributing educational publications through the
General Services Administration’s Federal Citizen
Information Center to individuals and groups,
including, among others, schools, libraries, and
readers of the Dear Abby advice column; and
•	 Handling investment-related complaints and questions
from tens of thousands of individual investors.

Continued Commitment to Education

Continued International Collaboration

Protecting Investors through Education

Working in close collaboration with divisions and offices
across the agency, OIA continues to facilitate the enforcement
and regulation of activities in today’s global securities markets,
where the SEC has many internationally active registrants
and where the U.S. market is impacted by cross-border
transactions and developments in other markets.

FY 2015 was also marked by a continued commitment to
providing investors with the information they need to avoid
securities fraud and make informed investment decisions.
The SEC’s Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
continued to support the Commission’s investor protection
mission by:
•	 Increasing investor education outreach to target
audiences, including in-person events focused on
helping members of the military and their families
protect themselves from investment fraud. In July, Chair
Mary Jo White led a multi-agency event at Joint Base

30

Cross-Border Enforcement and Supervisory Assistance
In addition to the collaboration with Enforcement described
above, OIA provides technical assistance to the SEC’s
international regulatory and law enforcement counterparts
to promote cross-border enforcement and supervisory
assistance, to minimize the likelihood of regulatory arbitrage,

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

and to assist countries in developing and maintaining robust
protections for investors.
The SEC’s international technical assistance program
provided training on enforcement, examinations, and
market development to approximately 1,666 persons from
the SEC’s international regulatory and law enforcement
counterparts.
OIA also makes requests to foreign authorities for supervisory
cooperation assistance and responds to such requests from
foreign regulators, both through formal mechanisms, such
as supervisory memoranda of understanding, and on an
ad hoc basis, to create a more effective and coordinated
regulatory environment.
In FY 2015, OIA handled approximately 135 supervisory
cooperation requests to foreign authorities and 113
responses to supervisory cooperation requests from
foreign authorities.

Commissioner Kara M. Stein

Cross-Border Policy Development
In order to maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets, the
SEC continues to work with international counterparts
through International Organization of Securities Commission
(IOSCO), the Financial Stability Board (FSB) and the
over-the-counter (OTC) Derivatives Regulators Group,
among others, to coordinate international approaches in
key regulatory areas and advance SEC policy objectives.
Through IOSCO and the FSB, the SEC also regularly
participates in international discussions about emerging
risks in the securities markets.
In FY 2015, the SEC worked with its international counterparts to develop consistent approaches to regulating
participants in the OTC derivatives market. In IOSCO, the
SEC worked with international securities regulators to publish reports sharing tools for credible deterrence and for the
cross-border regulation of internationally active entities.
The SEC staff also participated in ongoing assessments
and peer reviews of financial regulatory reforms by
IOSCO, the FSB and other international bodies to help
promote convergence of high-quality regulatory standards
and practices.

Continuing to Enhance Operations
Chief Operating Officer (COO)
The COO provides strategic leadership and oversight of
the SEC human, financial, technological, and administrative
resources focused on infrastructure and operational
activities that enable the agency to accomplish its mission.
The collaborative interaction of the following offices that
support these interdependent efforts allow flexible, efficient,
and cost-effective action by the agency regardless of the
challenges at hand.

Office of Information Technology (OIT)
OIT delivered over $125 million in information technology
investments in FY 2014 followed by the delivery of over
$100 million in IT investments in 2015. OIT delivered these
business critical investments while managing the day-to-day
operations of over $150 million infrastructure with virtually
no customer-impacting disruptions to service. Despite the
massive investments, OIT was able to achieve significant
operational savings through streamlining its operations and
efficiently leveraging its existing assets.

31

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

OIT acted in parallel with the agency’s rulemaking efforts
to update the SEC’s EDGAR system to support securitiesbased swap data repository registration and by updating
forms 1-A and 2-A in line with JOBS Act requirements.
Additionally, OIT modified the EDGAR system to ensure that
filings are available to the public on the SEC website before
such filings are made available to the contractor-operated,
subscription-based public dissemination system.
Also, in FY 2015 OIT delivered on the enterprise data
warehouse initiative, which uses a sophisticated set of data
analytics tools to help the SEC discover suspicious trading
patterns and possible wrongdoing by reducing processing
time for billions of Blue Sheet trading records from days to
hours and performing complex queries in seconds.
In the area of Information Security, OIT continued to enhance
its multi-faceted program that examines all aspects of
information security from the infrastructure to the end-user.
In FY 2015 OIT completed the assessment and authorization
of 22 reportable systems bringing the total to 63 reportable
systems that are in accordance with Office of Management
and Budget policy. Additionally, OIT continued to staff a
Security Operations Center on a 24-hour-by-365-days basis
to monitor and respond to all aspects of information security.

Office of Human Resources (OHR)
OHR continues to implement a comprehensive talent
management approach for the agency, in order to attract,
develop, motivate, and retain productive, engaged
employees.
In 2015, improved workforce planning allowed the SEC to
identify emerging talent needs as the agency continued
to grow in size and its mission evolved in tandem with
Congressional direction and financial market changes.
Recruiting and hiring talented staff with needed skill
sets is just the beginning. A new Expert Inventory/Skills
Database, known as Talent Profile, now allows the agency
to identify specialized staff experience and expertise that
might not be applied during an employee’s regular dayto-day activities, but which is needed when unusual but
important situations arise – an investigation demanding
detailed knowledge of a country’s corporate governance
regulations, for example.

32

The new Career Horizons program further helps employees
advance their careers through a systematic skills and
training acquisition strategy that increases in-house talent
and helps retain talented employees by demonstrating
agency support and a clear career path. The launch of
the Aspiring Leaders Program is promoting and building
the leadership competencies of senior employees
through an interactive learning environment designed to
strengthen each participant’s capacity for management
and leadership effectiveness.
Both Career Horizons and the Aspiring Leaders Program
are supported by enhancements to the LEAP learning
management system, making it easier for agency staff
to access their training, and by Individual Development
Plans which guide employees through skill-acquisition
opportunities that improve performance and provide
career opportunities.

Office of Financial Management (OFM)
OFM continues to streamline operations in ways that both
benefit the public and increase operational efficiency.
OFM launched a new initiative to modernize the system
supporting filing fee reviews, making the process more userfriendly and streamlining staff review of more complex fee
calculations. The Office also began efforts to institute new
systems supporting enforcement receivables and property
transactions, to strengthen and automate internal controls.
OFM form automation is saving staff time in areas such
as conference approvals, Delphi access, and approval of
top-line accounting entries.

Office of Acquisitions (OA)
OA continues to enhance the planning, award, and
administration of contracts by focusing on long-term
scalable enterprise contracts that bring discounts, reduce
transactions, speed delivery, and improve relationships with
contractors. Sourcing techniques including negotiations
with vendors, larger volume leveraging, understanding
the marketplace, re-competitions, longer term contracts,
vendor relationships, and others led to lower prices paid
in areas such as IT storage maintenance. Increased
collaboration and early involvement in planning SEC
procurements allows OA to provide sound strategic

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

business and acquisition advice, leveraging SEC buying
to obtain better business deals and pricing with longer term
contracts such as administrative type services support
to the divisions and offices. Focus on efficiency has led
to a number of larger, enterprise-wide contracts with
small businesses for language translation capability and
services for process servers that reduce the need for our
customers to make a large number of unique procurement
actions. Sound administration principles allowed OA to
return millions to SEC budgets in FY 2015 through our
de-obligation and closeout process. Extra efforts were
made to locate small and disadvantaged businesses that
provided quality services and hardware and software
allowing the SEC to surpass all small business goals set
for the agency with 59 percent of contract awards going
to small businesses.

Office of Support Operations (OSO)
OSO’s Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) regulation update
and publication is providing clarity and legal compliance
guidance to filers while bringing the SEC’s fee schedule
in line with similar Federal agencies’ fees. Establishment
of a FOIA appeals time frame is allowing for more efficient
processing of appeals and the creation of a more sound
administrative record.
The General Services Administration and SEC have thus
far identified eight opportunities representing an estimated
annual rent savings of up to $21 million by FY 2021 (18 percent
reduction of annual leased costs) primarily by consolidations
and right-sizing rentable square feet requirements. Four of
these opportunities have been successfully completed with
achieved annual rent savings of over $5 million and footprint
savings of over 170,000 rentable square feet.

Office of Chief Operating Officer (OCOO)

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

SEC staff extensively use and rely on electronic information
services and external data sources in support of rulewriting,
examinations, investigations, and litigations. This makes
access to and management of these assets – including
ongoing reviews of these portfolios and their associated
costs – a priority. To this end, two governance committees
have been established – the Data Working Group and the
Information Services Working Group.
The newly established Information Service Branch (which
encompasses the library) is establishing dedicated portfolio
managers to focus on the approximately $20 million
investment in these data and information assets to assess
them against new and diverse providers.
Re-design of the EDGAR system has been re-oriented as
an SEC wide initiative with the convening of an oversight
board to ensure transparency and ongoing involvement of
the divisions/offices. This is critical to ensuring the success
of this strategic initiative.
The SEC physical library space has been restructured and
reconfigured to reflect current needs and usage.
OCOO significantly enhanced agency operations through
upgrades to Archer – an industry-standard software
platform – that created fully integrated audit follow-up
capability, standardized the internal controls over financial
reporting used by OFM, centralized security incident
tracking and follow-up, and standardized operational risk
management efforts.
Reinvigorated internal communications and robust
operational messaging are enhancing efficiency by
increasing trust in leadership and staff’s alignment with the
SEC’s mission, all the while fostering a culture of openness
and collaboration.

The Office of the Chief Operating Officer’s Office of Strategic
Initiatives (OSI) collaborated with DERA on the oversight
of the QRADS program, which is designed to develop
and refine high quality financial market data and robust
analytical processes.

33

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Looking Forward
In Fiscal Year (FY) 2016, the SEC will continue to promote
policies and programs to protect investors, maintain
fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and facilitate capital
formation. The agency will continue to enhance its robust
enforcement and examination programs using innovative
data analysis and cutting-edge technology. The SEC will
also continue to make progress on important rulemakings –
both those mandated by Congress and those that seek to
enhance our program in mission-critical areas. In FY 2016,
the SEC will also strive to enhance its operations, bolster
its investor outreach, and use sophisticated data analytics
to improve its efficiency and effectiveness.

Policy Initiatives for Safer, Stronger Markets
In the coming fiscal year, the Commission will focus on
the final areas of the Dodd-Frank and JOBS Acts where
major rulemaking is required. The SEC will also continue
its discretionary rulemaking in areas of importance for
investors and other market participants, including asset
management, equity market structure, and public company
disclosures.

The Dodd-Frank Act and the JOBS Act
The Commission has finished its Dodd-Frank rulemaking in
most key areas. In FY 2016, the SEC will strive to:
•	 Finish implementation of a regulatory regime for
security-based swaps;
•	 Complete final rules related to executive compensation,
including requirements relating to pay versus
performance, employee and director hedging, and
compensation clawbacks;
•	 Develop revised rules to require reporting issuers
engaged in the commercial development of oil, natural
gas, or minerals to disclose in an annual report certain
payments made to the United States or a foreign
government; and
•	 Advance the remaining reviews, studies and
reports required by the Dodd-Frank Act, including a
comprehensive review of the definition of the term
“accredited investor.”

34

The SEC will also work to complete the few remaining
rulemakings required by the JOBS Act in FY 2016, particularly
final rules to implement a new exemption under the Securities
Act for securities-based crowdfunding offerings.

Other Major Regulatory Initiatives
Beyond these statutory mandates, the SEC will continue
to develop rules for a safer, stronger market economy
that seeks to facilitate capital formation while protecting
investors and maintaining fair, orderly, and efficient markets.
In particular, in the coming fiscal year, the SEC will, among
other efforts, seek to:
•	 Consider significant enhancements to the risk
management practices of investment funds and
advisers, including through new requirements
addressing liquidity risk management, stress testing,
the use of derivatives, and transition planning;
•	 Develop enhanced data reporting requirements for
mutual funds, investment advisers, exchange-traded
funds (ETFs) and other registered investment companies
to facilitate data analysis and risk monitoring;
•	 Advance a new set of rules for improving equity market
structure, which may include rules for enhanced
oversight of trading algorithms, dealer registration
requirements for active proprietary traders, membership
requirements for dealers that trade in off-exchange
venues, enhanced order routing disclosures by brokerdealers, expanded public information concerning
alternative trading system operations, and an antidisruptive trading rule;
•	 Develop potential rules for enhanced pre-trade
transparency in the fixed income markets, including
in the trading of municipal securities;
•	 Work toward a stronger financial responsibility
framework for broker-dealers, including through new
capital and liquidity requirements;
•	 Develop a uniform fiduciary duty for investment advisers
and broker-dealers, as well as a program of third-party
compliance reviews for registered investment advisors.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•	 Advance rules to enhance the risk management
of clearing agencies and shorten the settlement
cycle; and
•	 Review potential updates and improvements to core
agency programs, including the disclosure framework
for public companies, the regulatory framework for
transfer agents, and the regulatory treatment of ETFs.

Continuing Aggressive Enforcement and
Examination Efforts
The Division of Enforcement (Enforcement) and the Office
of Compliance Inspections and Examinations (OCIE) will
continue to build on their very strong results from FY 2015
by focusing on current and emerging high-priority areas,
and on leveraging cutting-edge technology and analytics.
Enforcement’s priorities for the coming year include a
continued focus on data to target and streamline their
efforts, complex financial products, gatekeepers, financial
reporting, market structure, insider trading, investment
advisers and private funds, and municipal securities. OCIE
will continue to use data analytics that enable preemptive
detection of risk throughout entire industries and more
effective identification of fraud during examinations.
•	 Enforcement will continue to collaborate with the SEC’s
in-house experts across the Divisions and Offices as
it pursues complex frauds and schemes, and use
technology to better process and understand large
volumes of data. This includes employing technology
to identify and investigate potential violations, including
in high-risk areas that could harm investors, markets,
or regulated entities.
•	 Market structure issues are a top priority for Enforcement as new technologies like algorithmic and highfrequency trading have become more prevalent.
•	 Enforcement will continue to prioritize financial
reporting and accounting fraud with an emphasis
on areas including revenue and expense recognition
problems, faulty valuations supporting accounting
estimates, faulty asset impairment conclusions,
improper acquisition accounting, missing or insufficient
disclosures, insufficient internal controls, and the role
of auditors and other gatekeepers.

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•	 Enforcement’s Microcap Fraud Task Force will continue
its proactive efforts to root out microcap fraud with a
particular focus on recidivists, gatekeepers, and crossborder schemes. The Task Force also will continue its
efforts to suspend trading in shell companies to prevent
them from becoming the next vehicle for microcap
fraud and to thwart ongoing pump and dump schemes.
•	 Enforcement will remain focused on investment
advisers, registered investment companies, private
funds and separately managed accounts and will
continue its proactive efforts, including through
data-driven risk-analytic initiatives, to identify issues
concerning conflicts of interest, disclosure, valuation,
performance, fees and expenses, advertising,
governance, portfolio management, and compliance
policies and controls.
•	 Enforcement will remain focused on identifying
and pursuing misconduct in the origination, rating,
sales, trading and valuation of complex financial
instruments (such as residential mortgage-backed
securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities,
collateralized loan obligations, and other asset-backed
securities), primarily through the use of data analytics.
Enforcement also will continue to focus on the retail
distribution of structured notes and other complex
securities and securities-based swaps.
•	 Building on work from OCIE, Enforcement will
develop a more efficient and uniform approach
to bringing churning cases against firms that have
indicia of excessive/abusive trading. Enforcement
also will continue its focus on anti-money laundering
practices and controls of regulated entities and will use
strategic analysis to target registrants that may be in
noncompliance with the appropriate rules.
•	 Enforcement will continue to focus on bringing cases as
quickly as possible, thereby maximizing the deterrent
effect of its actions.
•	 OCIE will continue to focus on issues affecting
investors’ retirement accounts, including sales and
marketing practices related to financial advisers’
recommendations that retirement plan assets be
placed in investment vehicles offered by their firms.

35

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•	 OCIE will continue to make governance and supervision
of information technology systems a priority, including
operational capability, business continuity planning,
and cybersecurity.
•	 OCIE will continue to track individuals that have prior
disciplinary histories and assess the compliance
programs of firms that hire or conduct business with
such individuals.
•	 OCIE will continue to look at compliance programs of
registered investment advisers employing a business
model that parallels a broker-dealer branch office model.
•	 OCIE will continue to prioritize the examination of
fees and expenses of private fund advisers as well as
controls and disclosure associated with side-by-side
management of performance-based and purely assetbased fee accounts.
•	 OCIE will examine certain areas of higher risk in brokerdealers’ trading activities, including execution of trades
in fixed income securities, equity order routing, and
trades in sub-accounts.
•	 OCIE will focus on risks associated with the ETF industry,
including compliance with exemptive relief and other
regulatory requirements, the creation and redemption
process, primary and secondary market trading.

•	 DERA experts will continue to create analytic
programs designed to identify risks, enabling
Commission divisions and offices to deploy scarce
resources targeting possible misconduct in the
corporate issuer, broker-dealer, and fund sectors.
For example, the Broker-Dealer Risk Assessment tool
was developed in conjunction with OCIE and helps
support examinations in that area and provide key
insights into the market.
•	 DERA also will continue to work closely with
Enforcement’s Financial Reporting and Audit Group
and with the Division of Corporation Finance to assist
in identifying financial reporting irregularities that may
indicate financial fraud and help assess corporate
issuer risk.
•	 DERA, Corporation Finance, and other divisions
and offices are working together to recommend
opportunities to provide greater use of structured
data, including an inline eXtensible Business Reporting
Language (XBRL) format that may help to improve the
quality of structured data contained in forms and filings.

Promoting Investor Education
In FY 2016, the SEC will continue to look for new and
innovative ways to educate investors including:

•	 OCIE will assess whether broker-dealers subject to the
Volcker Rule have implemented reasonable compliance
programs.

•	 Launching the pilot of its first public awareness
campaign to educate target audiences in ways to
avoid investment fraud; and

•	 OCIE will focus on pricing issues in the primary and
secondary markets for municipal securities.

•	 Using research to inform and enhance investor
education initiatives, including feedback from
Investor.gov’s customer satisfaction survey.

Continuing to Refine and Use Cutting-edge
Data Analytics
The SEC will continue to develop and enhance sophisticated
models and data analytics, and use them across the Agency
to assess risk and, more broadly, to further its mission.
•	 The Division of Economic and Risk Analysis (DERA)
will analyze information collected from Form D to help
assess the impact of amending Rule 506 to allow
general solicitation on private markets.

36

Continuing to Enhance Operations
In 2016, the Office of the Chief Operating Officer will
continue to strengthen the human, financial, and technical
infrastructure that allows the agency to effectively advance
its mission in a dynamic and cost-effective manner.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Workforce
The SEC’s strongest asset is its staff. In FY 2016, the
Office of Human Resources will focus on identifying and
recruiting an increasingly talented and diverse team;
elevating individuals’ performance and retention through
personalized development strategies; targeted training and
education opportunities; and effective career guidance and
support, including leadership training for potential senior
managers and executives.
The agency will continue to streamline the hiring process,
allowing it to recruit staff quickly and efficiently in response
to the demands of the mission. A priority of this streamlined
process will be bringing skills sets that reflect the SEC’s
current oversight, regulatory, and law enforcement priorities.
The agency will support this effort with a communication
and incentive strategy that aims to support staff morale
and performance. Emphasis will be on improving two-way
communication between staff and senior management and
recognizing and rewarding exceptional performance.

Operations
The SEC will continue a review of administrative processes
across the agency. A holistic analysis will identify and
assess the current state of administrative requirements
within the agency to identify process improvements,
implement a governance structure, develop tools and
technologies, and clarify roles and responsibilites for the
SEC administrative community.
The Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval
(EDGAR) re-design will continue, while the new Information
Portal Branch will begin modernization of The Insider,
another key internal information resource, with the aim of
increasing usability and discovery.
A more effective asset management system will bring
greater efficiencies – from purchase request through
retirement – of SEC hardware. Business process
re-engineering for IT hardware and bulk purchasing will
continue and the system will expand to include software
acquisition as well.

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

The Office of Support Operations (OSO) will collaborate
with the General Services Administration (GSA) to develop
a comprehensive real property portfolio strategy that
effectively addresses the SEC’s leasehold interests and
future leasing needs. GSA and SEC will continue to pursue
opportunities to save rental costs by consolidating and
right-sizing rentable square feet requirements when existing
leases expire.
Additionally, OSO is coordinating with the Office of
Information Technology (OIT) to automate certification of
public EDGAR files to allow requestors to access digitally
certified copies of filings for use in litigation or other official
purposes in lieu of staff testifying to the documents’ validity.
This will save $500,000 annually in supplies, shipping, and
personnel costs. It will also benefit the public by eliminating
the fee they pay for certifications.

Financial Management
The Office of Financial Management will continue its multiyear effort to strengthen internal controls. The Office will
continue systems initiatives in several key areas, including
enforcement receivables, filing fees, and property. Once
these systems are deployed, the agency will benefit from
a reduction in manual effort, improvements in controls, and
enhancements in reporting.

Office of Acquisitions (OA)
In 2016, OA will seek to reduce existing contract obligations
through de-obligations and the closeout process giving
the SEC the ability to apply returned funds towards other
priorities. OA will work with divisions and offices to lower
SEC costs for new contract services and products through
strategic sourcing, contract negotiations, leveraging of
requirements, and taking advantage of marketplace
opportunities and competition in areas such as the
Infrastructure Support Services. OA will maximize the use
of existing contracts and knowledge of the marketplace
and best practices to streamline procurements to reduce
contract lead times from initial request to contract award.
OA will seek competitive bids whenever possible and
maximize the use of quality small and disadvantaged

37

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

From left to right: Commissioner Kara M. Stein, Commissioner Luis A. Aguilar, Chair Mary Jo White, Commissioner Daniel M. Gallagher,
and Commissioner Michael S. Piwowar

businesses for the best outcomes to exceed small
business goals. OA will assess the Contracting Officer’s
Representative program as a critical part of contractor
oversight and performance.

Technology
Information Technology (IT) plays a critical role in the
mission of the SEC. The increasing size and complexity
of U.S. markets require that the SEC continue leveraging
technology to streamline operations and increase the
effectiveness of the agency’s programs, building on the
progress made over the past several years in modernizing
technology systems.
In FY 2016, OIT will continue its leadership role in the overall
management for the SEC’s IT program including application
development, infrastructure operations and engineering,
user support, IT program management, capital planning,
security, and enterprise architecture.
Investments planned for FY 2016 will continue to focus on
improving the agency’s ability to analyze data to uncover
potential violations of the securities laws; systems to support
agency business processes, including in Enforcement and
Examinations; and efforts to improve the usability of agency
information for the public.

38

Specific projects include efforts to:
•	 Enhance the agency’s data analytics and reporting
– to provide a Web-based solution that will enable
SEC registrant disclosures to be analyzed much more
quickly and comprehensively.
•	 Improve the XBRL Distribution System for EDGAR
users, to help facilitate the submission and use of this
key data.
•	 Enhance the SEC’s quantitative research infrastructure
by offering a scalable, multi-tier solution to identify and
analyze key risks in the securities markets.
•	 Address new reporting requirements included in
Commission-approved rulemaking.
•	 Bolster the document management system by adding
an automated records management system to facilitate
compliance with Federal records management statutes.
•	 Leverage the data produced by business intelligence
tools that enhance the agency’s ability to track key
performance indicators.
•	 Implement high-powered data analytical systems for
industry-wide investment adviser data.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

The SEC also plans to continue investments in its information
security program. In FY 2016, OIT plans to further automate
security controls, continue the transition to a posture of
information security continuous monitoring, enhance its risk
management capabilities and response times, implement
advanced persistent threat mitigation, and strengthen the
privacy program.

Conclusion

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

examinations. Through the work of its talented and dedicated
staff, the SEC is committed to building on its successes in
FY 2016. The agency will continue to promote its strategic
values of integrity, accountability, effectiveness, teamwork,
fairness and a commitment to excellence through improving
collaboration and coordination among its divisions and
offices, employing new technology, and supporting the more
than 4,000 talented men and women who work tirelessly to
fulfill the agency’s important mission.

In FY 2015, the SEC continued to achieve important
results by leveraging technology, employing sophisticated
data analytics and pursing focused rulemaking and
policy initiatives, aggressive enforcement and risk-based

39

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Financial Highlights
This section provides an analysis of the financial position, results of operations, and the underlying causes for significant
changes in balances presented in the SEC’s Fiscal Year (FY) 2015 financial statements.
As described further below, the SEC’s finances have several
main components:
•	 An annual appropriation from Congress;
•	 Securities transaction fees, charged in accordance
with Section 31 of the Securities Exchange Act, which
offset the agency’s annual appropriation;
•	 Securities registration, tender offer and merger fees
(also called filing fees), of which $50 million is deposited
into the Reserve Fund each year. The Reserve Fund
may provide resources up to $100 million to pay
for SEC expenses, and is not subject to annual
appropriation or apportionment;
•	 Disgorgement and penalties ordered and collected
from violators of the securities laws, some of which are
then returned to harmed investors and the balances
are transferred to the Treasury; and
•	 The SEC Investor Protection Fund, which is funded
through disgorgement and penalties not distributed to
harmed investors, and which is used to make payments
to whistleblowers who give tips to aid the SEC’s
enforcement efforts in certain circumstances, as well
as to cover the expenses of the SEC Office of Inspector
General’s (OIG) Employee Suggestion Program.

40

Sequestration Order for FY 2015
On March 1, 2013, the President issued the Sequestration
Order for FY 2013 which reduced FY 2013 budget authority.
As determined by the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB), for FY 2015, the sequestration order was applicable to
mandatory appropriations, which included the Reserve Fund.
For example, in FY 2015 the budget authority of $75 million
was reduced by 7.3 percent or $5 million.

Rescission for FY 2015
On December 16, 2014, Congress passed the Consolidated
Appropriations Act, 2015. Within the appropriations
language, a $25 million rescission was applied to the
unobligated balance of the Reserve Fund.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Overview of Financial Position
Assets. At September 30, 2015, the SEC’s total assets were
$11.5 billion, an increase of $865 million or eight percent
over FY 2014.
Fund Balance with Treasury decreased by $592 million or
seven percent. This was led by decreases in Disgorgement
and Penalty balances of $612 million that were invested.
Investments, Net increased $1.1 billion, or 63 percent, due
to several large Disgorgement and Penalty collections which
were invested in FY 2015.
Accounts Receivable, Net increased by $353 million due
to amounts owed from judgments rendered for payment
of fines, penalties and disgorgements in 2015.

CHART 1.3
FY 2015 ASSETS BY TYPE

3%

8%

Accounts
Receivable, Net

1%

Investments – Investor
Protection Fund

Property and
Other Assets

22%

Investments –
Disgorgement and
Penalties Fund

66%
Fund Balance
with Treasury

TABLE 1.2
ASSETS AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 AND 2014
FY 2015

FY 2014

$	7,619

$	8,211

2,469

1,361

Investments – Investor Protection Fund

398

395

Accounts Receivable, Net

860

507

Property and Equipment, Net

104

113

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

Fund Balance with Treasury
Investments – Disgorgement and
Penalties Fund

Other Assets
Total Assets

6

4

$	11,456

$	10,591

41

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Liabilities. The SEC’s total liabilities were $3.8 billion as
of September 30, 2015, an increase of $873 million or
30 percent from FY 2014. The change was mainly related
to increases in liabilities for Disgorgement and Penalties
recorded from October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015.
The increase in liabilities was partly offset by distributions
to harmed investors totaling $51 million.
For the assets received resulting from judgments, the SEC
recognizes a corresponding liability, which is either custodial
if the collections are transferred to the U.S. Treasury General
Fund or the Investor Protection Fund, or governmental if
the collections are held pending distribution to harmed
investors.
Accrued Payroll, Benefits and Leave increased due to the
liability for the supplemental retirement program; increase
in salary rates; and increases in personnel.
Accounts Payable decreased $24 million primarily due to a
$23 million whistleblower award liability accrued in FY 2014
but paid in FY 2015. The accrued whistleblower award
liability for FY 2015 totaled $17 thousand.
Unearned filing fees held in a SEC deposit account and
earned filing fees being returned to the U.S. Treasury
General Fund result in SEC recognizing a corresponding
liability.
Ending Net Position. The SEC’s net position, comprised of
both unexpended appropriations and the cumulative results
of operations, decreased by $8 million, or less than one
percent, between September 30, 2015 and 2014.

42

CHART 1.4
FY 2015 LIABILITIES BY TYPE

4%

1%

Accounts
Payable

1%

Registrant
Deposits

1%

Accrued Payroll,
Benefits and Leave

Other Liabilities

13%

Custodial Liability

80%
Liability for
Disgorgement
and Penalties

TABLE 1.3
LIABILITIES AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 AND 2014
FY 2015

FY 2014

$	3,029

$	2,451

Custodial Liability

500

223

Accrued Payroll, Benefits and Leave

131

101

Accounts Payable

48

72

Registrant Deposits

35

35

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

Liability for Disgorgement and Penalties

Other Liabilities
Total Liabilities

30

18

$	3,773

$	2,900

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Results of Operations

The increase reflects higher transaction volume and an
increase in the rate for Section 31 Transaction Fees effective
in March 2014.
Beginning in FY 2012, the majority of the SEC’s filing fees
is no longer used to partially fund the SEC’s operations
and are now deposited to the U.S. Treasury General Fund
upon collection.
Reserve Fund. Section 991(e) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act)
authorized the creation of a Securities and Exchange
Commission Reserve Fund (Reserve Fund). Funded from
filing fee collections, the SEC can deposit up to $50 million
per fiscal year, and the fund cannot hold more than $100
million in total. Excess filing fees are deposited to the U.S.
Treasury General Fund.

TABLE 1.4
EARNED REVENUES FOR THE YEARS ENDED
SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 AND 2014
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

Section 31 Securities Transaction Fees

Total Earned Revenues

Filing fees deposited to the Reserve Fund can be used to
fund the SEC’s operations, create budgetary authority, and
are reported as a component of Appropriations (Discretionary
and Mandatory) on the SEC’s Statement of Budgetary
Resources. Filing fees deposited to the U.S. Treasury
General Fund cannot be used to fund the SEC’s operations.
These amounts do not create budgetary authority, and
are reported as a component of Other Financing Sources:
Other on the SEC’s Statement of Changes in Net Position.
Reserve Fund resources totaling $53 million were obligated,
with $55 million in delivered orders paid, as of September
30, 2015, for both capitalized and non-capitalized IT related
hardware, software, and contracting leaving a remaining
amount of $328 thousand of available resources.

FY 2014

$	1,489

$	1,326

581

580

$	2,070

$	1,906

CHART 1.5
RESERVE FUND EARNED REVENUE
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
$600

$580

$581

$530

$531

$507
$378

$400

$457
$328

$200

$0

For the period ended September 30, 2015, filing fee
revenues were $581 million. Fifty million dollars was
deposited into the Reserve Fund, of which $5 million was
sequestered. The excess of $531 million was earned on
behalf of the U.S. Treasury General Fund.

FY 2015

Securities Registration, Tender Offer,
and Merger Fees (Filing Fees)

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

Earned Revenues. Total earned revenues for the year
ended September 30, 2015 increased by $164 million or
nine percent from FY 2014.

$50

$50

$50

$50

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014

FY 2015

Earned on Behalf of the
U.S. Treasury General Fund

Reserve Fund

Total Earned Revenue

CHART 1.6
FY 2015 FILING FEE REVENUE
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

$5

Sequestration

$25

Rescission

$20

Reserve Fund

$531
U.S. Treasury
General Fund

43

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Program Costs. Total Program Costs were $1.6 billion for
the period ended September 30, 2015, an increase of
$143 million, or 10 percent, compared to FY 2014. Salary
and Benefit Expenses increased more than $79 million, as
the result of increased staffing and compensation. Other
Expenses increased more than $64 million, which includes
$3 million in accrued expenses for whistleblower payments
from the SEC’s Investor Protection Fund, and $49 million in
additional expenses for contractual services.

CHART 1.7
PROGRAM COSTS
$1,200
(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

$1,000

$1,026

$947

$800
$558

$600

$494

$400
$200
$0

Salaries and Benefit Expenses
FY 2015

The SEC had increased expenses in the areas of personnel
compensation and benefits, which correlates to an
increase of 150 full-time equivalent employees; information
technology service contracts and licensing; capitalized and
noncapitalized information systems software and hardware;
and whistleblower award payments.

Other Expenses
FY 2014

Budgetary Resources
In FY 2015, the SEC’s total budgetary resources equaled
$1.7 billion, a 10 percent increase above the FY 2014
amount of $1.5 billion. Significant components of the SEC’s
Total Budgetary Resources are described below.

CHART 1.8
FY 2015 SOURCES OF FUNDS

23%

Unobligated Balance Brought Forward – Unfunded Lease
Obligations. Unfunded lease obligations totaled $358 million
at the beginning of FY 2015. The balance through the year
ended September 30, 2015 is $286 million.

Unobligated Balance, Brought
Forward, October 1 – Without
Unfunded Lease Obligations

2%

Recoveries of
Prior Year Unpaid
Obligations

72%

Spending Authority
from Offsetting
Collections

3%

Appropriations

Percentages do not include the Unobligated Balance Brought Forward,
October 1 – Interpretation for Lease Obligations.

44

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Spending Authority from Offsetting Collections. Between
September 30, 2015 and 2014, Spending Authority from
Offsetting Collections increased $204 million.

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

TABLE 1.5
TOTAL BUDGETARY RESOURCES FOR THE YEARS ENDED
SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 AND 2014
FY 2015

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

The change reflects the increase in Section 31 Fees
collected of $201 million, due to the change in fee rate
in March of FY 2014 from $17.40 per million to $22.10
per million. The new rate was in effect through February
13, 2015. The increase in collections was also due to a
12 percent increase in trading volume for the fees collected
in FY 2015 compared to FY 2014.

Unobligated Balance, Brought Forward, October 1:
Salaries and Expenses Fund – Without
$	74
Unfunded Lease Obligations
Salaries and Expenses Fund – Effect of
Change in Legal Interpretation for
Lease Obligations
	(358)
Reserve Fund
	–
Investor Protection Fund
Total Unobligated Balance, Brought
Forward, October 1
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations

	408

	434

	124

	145
34
	–

Total Budgetary Resources

6
50
4

59
22
(1)

1,496

1,292

$	1,713

$	1,551

CHART 1.9
OFFSETTING COLLECTIONS VS. NEW BUDGETARY AUTHORITY
SECTION 31 EXCHANGE AND FILING FEES
$2,000

$1,500

$1,000

$863

FY 2012 and beyond, Offsetting
Collections includes transaction
fees only.
$8
$59
$1,598
$48
$1,500
$33
$1,443
$1,350
$1,321 $1,321
$1,492
$1,291
$1,288 $1,273
$1,016
$1,185
$1,095

FY 2006 - FY 2011 Offsetting
Collections includes filing
fees and transaction fees.

$1,903

$1,538

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

The SEC’s Section 31 fee collections are used to offset
the appropriation, and as the collections come in, the
appropriated authority is returned to the U.S. Treasury
General Fund.

	(441)
	44

34

Spending Authority from Offsetting
Collections

During the fiscal year, the SEC receives an appropriation
to fund its operations. This appropriation establishes the
SEC’s new budget authority in its Salaries and Expenses
Fund for the fiscal year. The SEC’s new budget authority
of $1.5 billion was for FY 2015.

$	108

Other changes in Unobligated Balance (+ or -) 	(1)
Appropriations (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Salaries and Expenses Fund
Reserve Fund
Investor Protection Fund

Spending Authority from Offsetting
Collections and Appropriations

FY 2014

$868

$984

$843

$894

$500

$0

FY 2006 FY 2007 FY 2008 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 FY 2015

Total Actual Offsetting Collections

Appropriations

New Budgetary Authority

FY 2006 – FY 2011 Offsetting Collections includes transaction fees and filing fees. FY 2012
and beyond, Offsetting Collections includes transaction fees and $50 million of filing fees.

45

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Schedule of Spending
The Schedule of Spending presents more detail about the
“Obligations Incurred” line in the Statement of Budgetary
Resources. The SEC’s obligations are categorized by major
program and object class.
To confirm the quality of data reported on USASpending.gov
for public transparency, the SEC reconciled obligations
reported on the financial statements and spending
reported on the website. The majority of obligations
included on the financial statements that are not included
on USASpending.gov consists of the following: personnel
compensation and benefits, leases, interagency agreements,
travel, and training. Differences also exist due to the
timing of obligations reported in SEC’s financial reporting
system, as compared to the timing of data transmissions
to USASpending.gov from the Federal Procurement
Data System.
Chart 1.10 presents the SEC Total Obligations Incurred by
Cost Category for FY 2015.

CHART 1.10
FY 2015 TOTAL OBLIGATIONS INCURRED BY COST CATEGORY

6%

Acquisition
of Assets

Other

64%

29%

Personnel
Compensation
and Benefits

Contractual Services
and Supplies

TABLE 1.6
SCHEDULE OF SPENDING:
OBLIGATIONS INCURRED BY COST CATEGORY
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 AND 2014
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services and Supplies

FY 2015

FY 2014

$	996

$	903

444

417

	95

	81

15

25

Total Obligations Incurred by Cost Category $	1,550

$	1,426

Acquisition of Assets
Other

46

1%

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Investor Protection Fund
The SEC prepares stand alone financial statements for
the Investor Protection Fund as required by the DoddFrank Act. The Fund was established in FY 2010 to
provide funding for a whistleblower award program and
to finance the operations of the SEC OIG’s Employee
Suggestion Program.
For FY 2015, the balance of the Investor Protection Fund
decreased by $28 million between October 1, 2014 and
September 30, 2015. The Fund recognized non-exchange
revenues totaling $867 thousand, from interest earned on
investments in U.S. Treasury Securities. In addition, the
Investor Protection Fund incurred expenses of $28 million
for whistleblower awards, and $19 thousand for salary and
benefit cost in the OIG’s Employee Suggestion Program.

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

TABLE 1.7
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND ACTIVITY
FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2015 AND 2014
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Balance of Fund at beginning of fiscal
year, October 1
Amount of earnings on investments
during the fiscal year

FY 2015

FY 2014

$	414,660

$	439,197

867

579

Amount paid from the Fund during the
fiscal year to whistleblowers

	(28,397)

	(25,069)

Amount paid from the Fund during the
fiscal year for expenses incurred by
Employee Suggestion Program

(19)

(47)

$	387,111

$	414,660

Balance of the Fund at the end of the
reporting period

Note: Table 1.7 is presented as “Dollars in Thousands” in order to detail Investor
Protection Fund Activity.

Limitations of the Financial Statements
The principal financial statements have been prepared to
report the financial position and results of operations of
the entity, pursuant to the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 3515
(b). While the statements have been prepared from the
books and records of the entity in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for Federal entities
and the formats prescribed by OMB, the statements are in
addition to the financial reports used to monitor and control
budgetary resources, which are prepared from the same
books and records. The statements should be read with
the realization that they are for a component of the U.S.
Government, a sovereign entity.

47

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Performance Highlights
The SEC’s performance data provides a foundation for
both programmatic and organizational decision-making
and is critical for gauging the agency’s success in meeting
its objectives. The SEC is committed to using performance
management best practices to promote greater
accountability. This section provides information on its key
performance measures for FY 2015. It outlines the SEC’s
strategic and performance planning framework, provides
information on the costs incurred by the agency’s four
strategic goals and 10 national programs, and highlights the
agency’s progress toward reaching key performance targets.

The SEC ensures that the performance data presented in
this report is complete, reliable and accurate by taking the
following steps:

The SEC’s FY 2015 Annual Performance Report (APR)
will be issued with the agency’s FY 2017 Congressional
Budget Justification, and will provide a complete
discussion of all of the agency’s strategic goals, including
a description of performance goals and objectives, data
sources, performance results and trends, and information
about internal reviews and evaluations. The summary
presented below of the SEC’s verification and validation of
all performance data also will be included in the APR. The
SEC’s APR is expected to be available in February 2016 at
www.sec.gov/about/secreports.shtml.

•	 Documentation and explanation of the performance
goal calculations; and

Verification and Validation of
Performance Data
The SEC’s programs require accurate data to properly assess
program performance and to make good management
decisions. To ensure data is correct, a system of data
verification and validation is used. Data verification is a
systematic process for evaluating a set of data against a
set of standards to ascertain its completeness, correctness,
and consistency, using the methods and criteria defined
in the project documentation. Data validation follows the
data verification process and is an effort to ensure that
performance data are free of systematic error or bias and
that what is intended to be measured is actually measured.
Together, these processes are used to evaluate whether the
information has been generated according to specifications,
satisfies acceptance criteria, and is appropriate and
consistent with its intended use.

48

(1)	 The agency develops performance goals through its
strategic planning process.
(2)	 The SEC’s divisions and offices provide:
•	 T
	 he procedures used to obtain assurance as
to the accuracy and reliability of the data;
•	 The data definitions for reference;

•	 The sources of the underlying data elements.
(3)	 The divisions and offices calculate and report
the performance goals to the Office of Financial
Management, and the performance goals are
approved by the division directors and office
heads. This process ensures that the data used in
the calculation of performance goals is accurate
and reliable and that internal control is maintained
throughout the approval process.

Strategic and Performance Planning
Framework
The SEC’s FY 2015 strategic and performance planning
framework is based on the FY 2014 – FY 2018 Strategic
Plan, available at www.sec.gov/about/sec-strategicplan-2014-2018.pdf. The Strategic Plan outlines the
agency’s mission, vision, values, strategic goals, and
strategic objectives. The SEC’s work is structured around
four strategic goals, as well as 12 strategic objectives
the agency plans to achieve in support of those four
goals. The SEC’s goals and priorities in the Strategic
Plan are influenced by several external environmental
factors, including global, complex and constantly evolving
securities markets.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Table 1.8 displays the agency’s FY 2015 costs for its four strategic goals, as well as how these costs are divided among
the SEC’s programs described in Table 1.1.
TABLE 1.8

Strategic Goal

Strategic Objective

Contributing Programs ($ in millions)

Strategic Objective 1.1: The SEC establishes and maintains a regulatory
environment that promotes high-quality disclosure, financial reporting and
governance, and that prevents abusive practices by registrants, financial
intermediaries and other market participants.
STRATEGIC GOAL 1:
Establish and maintain
an effective regulatory
environment
Cost: $169.1 million

3.2
6.8

21.0

Strategic Objective 1.2: The SEC promotes capital markets that operate
in a fair, efficient, transparent and competitive manner, fostering capital
formation and useful innovation.

21.9

9.5

35.7

Strategic Objective 1.3: The SEC adopts and administers regulations and
rules that are informed by robust economic analysis and public comment
and that enable market participants to understand clearly their obligations
under the securities laws.

41.4

24.1

5.5

Strategic Objective 1.4: The SEC engages with a multitude of stakeholders
to inform and enhance regulatory activities domestically and internationally.
3.1

19.8

Strategic Objective 2.1: The SEC fosters compliance with the Federal
securities laws.
STRATEGIC GOAL 2:
Foster and enforce
compliance with the
Federal securities laws

309.5

Strategic Objective 2.2: The SEC promptly detects and deters violations of
the Federal securities laws.

Strategic Objective 2.3: The SEC prosecutes violations of Federal securities
laws and holds violators accountable through appropriate sanctions and
remedies.

Cost: $213.6 million

STRATEGIC GOAL 4:
Enhance the
Commission’s
performance through
effective alignment
and management of
human, information,
and financial capital
Cost: $246.0 million

521.9

28.3

Cost: $954.9 million

STRATEGIC GOAL 3:
Facilitate access to the
information investors
need to make informed
investment decisions

3.3

30.1
21.6
17.3
3.3

1.5

Strategic Objective 3.1: The SEC works to ensure that investors have access
to high-quality disclosure materials that facilitate informed investment
decision-making.

19.1

14.0

23.3
19.2

Strategic Objective 3.2: The SEC works to understand investor needs
and educate investors so they are better prepared to make informed
investment decisions.
Strategic Objective 4.1: The SEC promotes a results-oriented work
environment that attracts, engages, and retains a technically proficient
and diverse workforce, including leaders who provide motivation and
strategic direction.
Strategic Objective 4.2: The SEC encourages a collaborative environment
across divisions and offices and leverages technology and data to fulfill
its mission more effectively and efficiently.

Strategic Objective 4.3: The SEC maximizes the use of agency resources by
continually improving agency operations and bolstering internal controls.

Agency Direction and Administrative Support 
Corporation Finance 
Investment Management
Trading and Markets 
General Counsel 

0.1
121.9

5.5
5.7
1.6
1.2
11.8
2.5

9.0

9.8

16.5
9.4

184.2

Economic and Risk Analysis 
Enforcement 
Inspector General
Other Program Offices 
Compliance Inspections and Examinations

49

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

The SEC expended about $1,584 million in FY 2015 to achieve its four strategic goals and 12 strategic objectives.
Seventy four percent of the total costs in FY 2015 were directed toward achieving Strategic Goal 2 Foster and enforce
Federal securities laws and Strategic Goal 3 Facilitate access to the information investors need to make informed
investment decisions. The agency’s APR will provide a complete explanation of how many planned performance goal
targets were exceeded, met, and not met. Where the agency met or exceeded its planned performance targets, the
report will provide a discussion of the increased efficiencies and improved processes employed by the agency. When
a planned performance target was not met, the report will provide a description of actions that will be taken to achieve
the target in the future.

Performance Achievements
As part of the SEC’s efforts to promptly detect and deter violations of the Federal securities laws (Strategic Objective 2.2),
the agency’s National Examination Program (NEP) conducts inspections of regulated entities, covering as much of the
securities industry as resources will allow. The NEP continued to exert considerable time and effort during the year on
enhancing its risk assessment and surveillance capabilities, to ensure that the program is spending its limited time and
resources on those firms presenting the highest risk. Examinations of high risk firms often take significant time to complete
and are frequently of large and complex entities. Overall, the program exceeded expectations and completed more
examinations than in any of the previous five fiscal years (Performance Goal 2.2.1). In addition, examination resources were
also allocated during the past year to other critical efforts intended to improve the long-term performance of the program,
including industry outreach initiatives, rulemaking projects, and other program improvement efforts. These activities to
build and maintain coverage of the industry helps the Commission uncover wrongdoing and promote compliance with
the Federal securities laws.
TABLE 1.9
PERFORMANCE GOAL 2.2.1
Percentage of investment advisers, investment companies, and broker-dealers examined during the year
Description: This metric indicates the number of registrants examined by the SEC or a Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO) as a percentage of
the total number of registrants. This metric includes all types of examinations: risk priority examinations, cause inspections to follow up on tips
and complaints, limited-scope special inspections to probe emerging risk areas, oversight examinations of broker-dealers to test compliance
and the quality of examinations by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).
FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014

FY 2015
Plan

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2015
Results

Investment advisers

9%

8%

8%

9%

10%

10%

10%

Met

Investment companies

10%

13%

12%

11%

10%

12%

15%

Exceeded

Broker-dealers (exams by SEC and SROs)

44%

58%

49%

46%

49%

50%

51%

Exceeded

Fiscal Year

Responsible Division/Office: Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Data Source: Tracking and Reporting Exam National Documentation System (TRENDS), (IA, IC, and BD SEC data) and SRO Databases
(BD SRO Data)

A key part of investor protection is for those who choose to prey on investors to be swiftly and appropriately sanctioned.
The SEC’s ability to successfully litigate cases is critical to its mission of protecting investors. Successful litigation sanctions
wrongdoers, provides relief to victims, and deters wrongdoing. In addition to victories in the specific cases the agency
brings to trial, the SEC’s litigation efforts also help the SEC obtain strong settlements in other cases by making clear that
the SEC will go deep into litigation and to trial, if necessary, in order to obtain appropriate relief. Prosecuting violations of
Federal securities laws and holding violators accountable (Strategic Objective 2.3) is among the most important work of the

50

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Commission. The SEC has implemented controls and strategies to resolve actions quickly and on a favorable basis, while
at the same time, it does not hesitate to file matters on a contested basis where a favorable settlement was unavailable
before filing (Performance Goal 2.3.1). The SEC has dedicated the necessary resources to ensure that the agency will
continue to have a strong record of success.
TABLE 1.10
PERFORMANCE GOAL 2.3.1
Percentage of enforcement actions in which the Commission obtained relief on one or more claims
Description: This metric identifies, as to all parties to enforcement actions that were resolved in the fiscal year, the percentage against whom
the Commission obtained a judgment or order entered on consent, a default judgment, a judgment of liability on one or more charges, and/
or the imposition of monetary or other relief.
Fiscal Year
Percentage

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014

FY 2015
Plan

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2015
Results

92%

93%

89%

93%

94%

92%

95%

Exceeded

Responsible Division/Office: Division of Enforcement
Data Source: HUB case management and tracking system for the Division of Enforcement

An educated investing public ultimately provides the best defense against fraud and costly mistakes. The Federal securities
laws place great emphasis on assuring that corporations, investments companies, and other entities provide investors
with timely, clear, complete and accurate financial and non-financial information. The starting point for shaping company
disclosure is remembering its purpose, which is, that investors have access to high-quality disclosure materials that facilitate
informed investment decision-making (Strategic Objective 3.1). Consistent with Section 408 of the Sarbanes Oxley-Act of
2002, the SEC completed its review of disclosures made by certain public issuers, including issuers’ financial statements,
no less frequently than once every three years (Performance Goal 3.1.1).
TABLE 1.11
PERFORMANCE GOAL 3.1.1
Percentage of public companies and investment companies with disclosures reviewed each year
Description: The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that the SEC review, at least once every three years, the disclosures of all companies and
investment company portfolios reporting under the Exchange Act. These reviews help improve the information available to investors and may
identify possible violations of the Federal securities laws. This metric gauges the number of public companies and investment companies
reviewed each year.
Fiscal Year

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014

FY 2015
Plan

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2015
Results

44%

48%

48%

52%

52%

33%

51%

Exceeded

35%

Exceeded

Division of Corporation Finance
Corporations

Responsible Division/Office: Division of Corporation Finance
Data Source: Electronic, Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR)/Filing Activity Tracking System (FACTS)
Division of Investment Management
Investment company portfolios

35%

33%

36%

34%

35%

33%

Responsible Division/Office: Division of Investment Management
Data Source: Microsoft Office Suite Tools

51

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

In today’s complex world, having a solid understanding of the financial marketplace is a key foundation for investors to be
able to handle life’s big events – paying for college, marriage, buying a home, and saving for retirement. Understanding
the interests and concerns of investors is critical to carrying out the Commission’s investor protection mission. The SEC
advances this mission by seeking to understand investor needs and educate investors so they are better prepared to make
informed investment decisions (Strategic Objective 3.2). The SEC website dedicated to retail investors provides excellent
content helpful to investors all over the world. During FY 2015, Investor.gov, featuring calculators, tools, and resources
for checking the background of investment professionals, among other materials for investors, helped the agency exceed
its goal of page views of online investor education content. The SEC also continued to be an active member of the U.S.
Department of Defense’s Financial Readiness Campaign, and conducted financial workshops on military installations
throughout the country. The SEC regularly issued investor alerts to educate the public about potentially fraudulent
activity and supported financial readiness events and activities such as Military Saves Week by providing free educational
brochures. The SEC had 23.6 million page views of online investor education content and participated in 71 in-person
events (Performance Goal 3.2.1).
TABLE 1.12
PERFORMANCE GOAL 3.2.1
Number of page views of online investor education content, and number of in-person events,
including those with specifically targeted communities and organizations
Description: The Office of Investor Education and Advocacy (OIEA) initiates investor education campaigns on key strategies for making informed
investment decisions, including publicizing online resources for researching investment professionals and investments, understanding fees,
and identifying fraud. OIEA staff also participates in in-person events for investors generally and those targeted to specific investors, such
as seniors, service members, and other affinity groups. This metric tracks page views of SEC online investor education materials and the
number of investor events in which OIEA staff participated.
Fiscal Year

FY 2010

FY 2011

FY 2012

FY 2013

FY 2014

FY 2015
Plan

FY 2015
Actual

FY 2015
Results

Number of page views (in millions)

Prior-year data not available

12.1

22.2

20

23.6

Exceeded

Number of “in-person” events

Prior-year data not available

52

51

50

71

Exceeded

Responsible Division/Office: Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
Data Source: Google Analytics, Microsoft Office Suite Tools

52

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Management Assurances and Compliance with Laws
In Fiscal Year (FY) 2015, the SEC demonstrated its continued
commitment to maintaining strong internal controls. Internal
control is an integral component of effective agency
management, providing reasonable assurance that the
following objectives are being achieved: effectiveness and
efficiency of operations, reliability of financial reporting,
and compliance with laws and regulations. The Federal
Managers’ Financial Integrity Act of 1982 (FMFIA) establishes
management’s responsibility to assess and report on internal
accounting and administrative controls. Such controls include
program, operational, and administrative areas, as well as
accounting and financial management. The FMFIA requires
Federal agencies to establish controls that reasonably ensure
obligations and costs are in compliance with applicable law;
funds, property, and other assets are safeguarded against
waste, loss, unauthorized use, or misappropriation; and
revenues and expenditures are properly recorded and
accounted for to maintain accountability over the assets.
The FMFIA also requires agencies to annually assess
whether financial management systems conform to related
requirements (FMFIA § 4). Guidance for implementing the

FMFIA is provided through Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility for
Internal Control.
Section 963 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) describes the
responsibility of SEC management to establish and maintain
adequate internal controls and procedures for financial
reporting. This section requires an annual financial controls
audit, a Government Accountability Office (GAO) audit of the
SEC’s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control,
and attestation by the Chair and the Chief Financial Officer
(CFO). Section 922 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires the
SEC to submit audited financial statements of the Investor
Protection Fund to the Committee on Banking, Housing and
Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial
Services of the House of Representatives.
The following Assurance Statement is issued in accordance
with the FMFIA, OMB Circular A-123 and Sections 963 and
922 of the Dodd-Frank Act.

Annual Assurance Statement
Assurance Statement On Internal Control Over Operations:
The SEC management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining effective internal control that meets the
objectives of the Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity
Act of 1982 (FMFIA). In accordance with OMB Circular
A-123, the SEC conducted its annual assessment of the
effectiveness of internal controls. Based on the results
of the assessment for the period ending September 30,
2015, the SEC is able to provide a statement of assurance
that the internal controls, both for the agency as a whole
and for the Investor Protection Fund, meet the objectives
of the FMFIA. No material weaknesses were found in the
design or operation of the internal controls for the fiscal
year ended September 30, 2015.
Assurance Statement On Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting (ICFR): In accordance with Appendix A of OMB
Circular A-123, the SEC conducted its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,
which includes safeguarding of assets and compliance
with applicable laws and regulations. Based on the results

of the assessment, the SEC is able to provide reasonable
assurance that internal controls over financial reporting,
both for the agency as a whole and for the Investor
Protection Fund, met the objectives of FMFIA and were
operating effectively as of September 30, 2015. No material
weaknesses were found in the design or operation
of controls.
SEC also conducted reviews of its financial management
systems in accordance with OMB Circular A-123
Appendix D, Compliance with the Federal Financial
Management Improvement Act of 1996 (FFMIA). Based
on the results of these reviews, SEC can provide reasonable
assurance that its financial management systems
substantially comply with the requirements of the FFMIA
as of September 30, 2015.

Mary Jo White
Chair
November 10, 2015

Kenneth A. Johnson
Chief Financial Officer
November 10, 2015

53

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Management’s Assessment
of Internal Control
The FY 2015 Chair and CFO’s annual assurance statements
for FMFIA and ICFR provided reasonable assurance that
the necessary objectives (effective and efficient operations,
compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and
reliability of financial reporting) are achieved.
The assurance statements are based on reports from
each division director and office head on the effectiveness
of their controls. These statements were based on selfassessments and internal reviews supported by control
testing, as well as recommendations for improvement from
audits, investigations, and reviews conducted internally by
the SEC Office of Inspector General (OIG) and GAO.
The results of these statements were considered with other
sources of information, which included, but were not limited
to, the following:
•	 An entity-level control assessment;
•	 Internal management reviews, self-assessments,
and tests of internal controls;
•	 Management’s personal knowledge gained from
daily operations;
•	 Reports from GAO and the OIG;
•	 Reviews of financial management systems under
OMB Circular A-123 Appendix D, Compliance with
the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act
of 1996;
•	 Reports pursuant to the Federal Information Security
Management Act (FISMA) and OMB Circular A-130,
Management of Federal Information Resources;
•	 Annual reviews and reports pursuant to the Improper
Payments Elimination and Recovery Act;
•	 Reports and other information from Congress or
agencies such as OMB, the Office of Personnel
Management (OPM), or the General Services
Administration (GSA) reflecting the adequacy of internal
controls; and
•	 Additional reviews relating to a division or office’s
operations.

54

With respect to internal controls over financial reporting,
the SEC performed a comprehensive risk assessment.
The agency documented its key controls to address risks,
and then assessed the design and operating effectiveness
of these controls through detailed test procedures.
The agency also tested the operating effectiveness of
control activities that were found to be deficient in prior
years. SEC management analyzed the magnitude of internal
control deficiencies, both individually and in the aggregate,
to determine if a material weakness existed in the financial
reporting processes.
Taking into account the assurance statements from
directors and office heads, the supplemental sources of
information as described above, and the results of the
assessment of internal controls over financial reporting,
the agency’s Financial Management Oversight Committee
advises the Chair as to whether the SEC had any
deficiencies in internal control or financial system design
significant enough to be reported as a material weakness
or non-conformance.
This report provides a Summary of Financial Statement
Audits and Management Assurances under the section
entitled Other Accompanying Information, as required by
OMB Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements.

Other Reviews
Improper Payments Information Act
The Improper Payments Information Act (IPIA) of 2002,
as amended by the Improper Payments Elimination and
Recovery Act (IPERA) of 2010 and Improper Payments
Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act (IPERIA) of
2012, requires agencies to review all programs and activities
they administer and identify those which may be susceptible
to significant erroneous payments. For all programs and
activities in which the risk of erroneous payments is
significant, agencies are to estimate the annual amount of
erroneous payments made in those programs. The SEC’s
risk assessments have consistently indicated that none of
the SEC’s programs are susceptible to significant improper
payments. Please refer to the Other Information Section,
Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act Reporting
Details, of this report for additional information regarding the
SEC’s compliance with IPIA, IPERA, and IPERIA.

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Financial Management System Conformance
The FFMIA requires that each agency implement and
maintain financial management systems that comply
substantially with Federal financial management
systems requirements, applicable Federal accounting
standards, and the U.S. Standard General Ledger at the
transaction level. The purpose of the FFMIA is to advance
Federal financial management by verifying that financial
management systems provide accurate, reliable, and timely
financial management information in order to manage
daily operations, produce reliable financial statements,
maintain effective internal control, and comply with legal
and regulatory requirements. Although the SEC is exempt
from the requirement to determine substantial compliance
with FFMIA, the agency assesses its financial management
systems annually for conformance with the requirements
of OMB Circular A-123, Appendix D and other Federal
financial system requirements.

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Federal Information Security
Management Act (FISMA)
FISMA requires Federal agencies to “develop, document,
and implement an agency-wide information security
program to provide information security for the information
and information systems that support the operations
and assets of the agency, including those provided or
managed by another agency, contractor, or other source.”
In addition, FISMA requires Federal agencies to conduct
annual assessments of their information security and privacy
programs, to develop and implement remediation efforts
for identified weaknesses and vulnerabilities, and to report
compliance to OMB. The SEC’s OIG, Chief Information
Security Officer, and Privacy Officer annually perform a
joint review of the Commission’s compliance with FISMA
requirements. The Commission will submit its 2015 report
to OMB in November.

Oversight and Compliance
Summary of Current Financial System
and Future Strategies
The FY 2015 ICFR assessment demonstrated that a low
risk rating would be appropriate and that the agency
substantially complied with the requirements of Section
803(a) of the FFMIA. The SEC’s financial system, Delphi, is
supported by an approved Federal Shared Service Provider
(FSSP) and meets all of the requirements of FFMIA.
In FY 2015, the SEC continued to work with its FSSP, the
Department of Transportation’s Enterprise Services Center
(ESC), in enhancing its existing systems and implementing
additional financial and mixed systems. This year, the SEC
transitioned its travel management system to E2 Solutions.
ESC is now providing operations and maintenance support
to the SEC for E2 Solutions, including interfacing financial
data with the core financial management system on a
daily basis. The SEC believes that continuing to invest in
technology solutions will help to put its controls on a more
sustainable path.

The SEC’s Office of Information Technology (OIT),
collaborating with business owners, completed assessment
and authorization activities for 22 reportable systems. As a
result, the SEC has now assessed and authorized a total
of 63 reportable systems in accordance with OMB policy
and guidance from the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST). OIT completed contingency testing
on the majority of the SEC’s authorized systems as part
of disaster recovery exercises, unscheduled events,
and weather occurrences. In FY 2015, OIT Security
performed physical site assessments in accordance with
NIST SP 800-53 for six of the regional offices and three
vendor sites. OIT facilitated the remediation of 320 selfidentified deficiencies associated with the SEC’s network
infrastructure and major applications and closed 19 OIG
recommendations.
OIT conducted 181 privacy reviews, which included the
approval and publishing of four privacy impact assessments.
OIT also published two systems of record notices in the
Federal Register.

55

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS

Training and Communications

Governance and Technology

OIT delivered on-line cyber security and privacy awareness
training to the SEC user community and achieved 94 percent
completion. The Privacy Office conducted seven on-site
regional office assessments and in-person privacy training,
which focused on the safe handling of personally identifiable
information (PII) and was delivered to approximately
89 percent of users in those regional offices. During the
regional office assessments, the Privacy Office also held
manager forums that focused on data breaches involving
PII and discussed lessons learned from previous incidents.
OIT launched a central, online Privacy Resource Center,
which offers status updates of data breaches, and guidance
and resources for protecting PII at the SEC and other
Federal agencies.

OIT continues updating governance documentation to
be consistent with OMB policy and NIST guidance. OIT
is dedicating resources to enhancing SEC’s electronic
governance, risk and compliance software tool which
will result in increased efficiency in managing security
assessments and better visibility and tracking of issues in
a consolidated repository. The first round of dashboards
illustrating remediation progress was made available to
OIT in FY 2015. SEC is well positioned to transition to
continuous monitoring and is an active participant in
interagency cybersecurity initiatives, many led by the
Department of Homeland Security. The SEC continues to
safely explore cloud computing technologies and solutions
based on Federal information protection requirements.
SEC leveraged five cloud service providers that have been
through the Federal Risk and Authorization Management
Program (FedRAMP) and is exploring additional cloud
service providers that are registered in FedRAMP but have
not yet received provisional authorization from either an
agency or the Joint Authorization Board.

56

Financial Section

T

his section of the Agency Financial Report contains the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) financial statements and other additional information for Fiscal Years (FYs) 2015 and 2014. Information presented here satisfies the financial
reporting requirements of the Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002 and Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer

Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act). The SEC prepares these statements and accompanying notes in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for the Federal Government and OMB Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements.

SEC Financial Statements:
•	 Balance Sheets: Presents, as of a specific time, amounts of

activities on this statement. Custodial collections of non-

future economic benefits owned or managed by the SEC

exchange revenue, such as amounts collected from violators

(assets), amounts owed by the entity (liabilities), and amounts

of securities laws as a result of enforcement proceedings, are

which comprise the difference (net position).

reported only on the Statement of Custodial Activity.

•	 Statements of Net Cost: Presents the gross cost incurred by

•	 Accompanying Notes to the Financial Statements: Provides

the SEC less exchange revenue earned from its activities,

a description of significant accounting policies and detailed

including registration and filing fees. The SEC presents net cost

information on select statement line items.

of operations by program to provide cost information at the
program level. The SEC recognizes collections as exchange
revenue on the Statement of Net Cost, even when the collections are transferred to other entities.
•	 Statements of Changes in Net Position: Reports the change
in net position during the reporting period. This statement
presents changes to Cumulative Results of Operations and
Unexpended Appropriations.
•	 Statements of Budgetary Resources1: Provides information
about how budgetary resources were made available as well
as their status at the end of the year.

•	 Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited): Reports
the Combining Statements of Budgetary Resources by fund
account 2 .

Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements:
•	 Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements: Provides stand
alone, comparative financial statements (Balance Sheets,
Statements of Net Cost, Statements of Changes in Net Position,
and Statements of Budgetary Resources) as required by the
Dodd-Frank Act.
•	 Accompanying Notes to the Investor Protection Fund Financial

•	 Statements of Custodial Activity: Reports the collection of

Statements: Provides a description of significant accounting

revenue for the Treasury General Fund. The SEC accounts

policies and detailed information on select statement line items

for sources and disposition of the collections as custodial

as required by the Dodd-Frank Act.

1	

Budgetary information aggregated for purposes of the Statement of Budgetary Resources is disaggregated for each of the
SEC’s major budget accounts and is presented as Required Supplementary Information.

2	

The SEC does not have stewardship over resources or responsibilities for which supplementary stewardship reporting would
be required.

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Message from the Chief Financial Officer
I am delighted to join Chair

supporting budget execution and formulation, and efforts

White in presenting the

are underway to modernize the systems related to filing

SEC’s Agency Financial

fees and property management. Many of the challenges

Report (AFR) for Fiscal

the SEC continues to face in these critical areas are the

Year (FY) 2015. We hope

result of dated technology and manual processes. Thus,

you find the AFR a useful

we believe that investing in technology solutions will help

summary of the SEC’s

to put our controls on a more sustainable path.

financial picture, operating
performance, and internal

This section of the AFR provides detailed information about

controls.

the SEC’s finances and its internal controls over financial
reporting. It does so for both for the entity as a whole and

For FY 2015, our independent auditor, the U.S. Government

for the Investor Protection Fund, as required under Section

Accountability Office (GAO), has issued an unmodified opinion

922 of the Dodd-Frank Act. The section also contains the

on our financial statements and internal controls. I am pleased

results of the FY 2015 audit conducted by GAO, as well as

to report that the SEC also successfully downgraded

the agency’s response. We hope you will find these materials

the significant deficiency identified in FY 2014 related to

both useful and informative.

accounting for disgorgement and penalties. The SEC has
worked diligently to address GAO’s recommendations in

I want to extend special thanks to the staff of the Office of

this highly complex area.

Financial Management, as well as other divisions and offices
throughout the SEC, who work extremely hard to manage,

For example, we reevaluated our business processes and

track, report on, and control SEC funds. The significant

bolstered controls related to the timely recording of court

progress the SEC has made in its financial stewardship

judgments impacting the financial statements. We have

over the last several years could not have been achieved

also developed the requirements for a new disgorgement

without their efforts.

and penalty sub-ledger system, and we expect the effort
to implement the system will commence in FY 2016. This

Sincerely,

system is aimed towards streamlining the controls in this
key area, by providing more comprehensive information in
a more automated fashion.
In the coming year we are also focused on further

Kenneth A. Johnson

improvements to the systems that support our financial

Chief Financial Officer

controls. The SEC is working to replace the system

November 13, 2015

58

Report of Independent Auditors

441 G St. N.W.
Washington, DC 20548

Independent Auditor’s Report
To the Chair of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission
In our audits of the 2015 and 2014 financial statements of the United States Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC) 1 and the Investor Protection Fund (IPF), 2 we found
•
•
•

the SEC and IPF financial statements as of and for the fiscal years ended September 30,
2015, and 2014, are presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles;
SEC maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting for
SEC and for IPF as of September 30, 2015; and
no reportable noncompliance for fiscal year 2015 with provisions of applicable laws,
regulations, contracts, and grant agreements we tested.

The following sections discuss in more detail (1) our report on SEC’s and IPF’s financial
statements and on internal control over financial reporting, which includes required
supplementary information (RSI) 3 and other information 4 included with the financial statements;
(2) our report on compliance with laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements; and
(3) agency comments.
Report on SEC’s and IPF’s Financial Statements and on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting
The Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of 2002 requires that SEC annually prepare and submit
audited financial statements to Congress and the Office of Management and Budget. 5 The
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended in 2010 by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
1
Dodd-Frank Act, Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (July 21, 2010) codified at 15 U.S.C. § 78d-8, requires that (1)
SEC submit annual reports to Congress describing management’s responsibility for internal control over financial
reporting and assessing the effectiveness of such internal control during the fiscal year, (2) the SEC Chairman and
Chief Financial Officer attest to SEC’s reports, and (3) GAO attest to and report on the assessment made by SEC.
SEC conducted an evaluation of its internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the Office of
Management and Budget’s Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility for Internal Control, based on criteria
established under the Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act.
2

IPF was established in 2010 by section 922(g) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
to fund the activities of SEC’s whistleblower award program and the SEC Office of Inspector General employee
suggestion program established under Section 966 of Dodd-Frank. IPF is a separate SEC fund and its financial
statements present SEC’s financial activity associated with its whistleblower and Inspector General suggestion
programs. Accordingly, IPF’s financial transactions are also included in SEC’s overall financial statements.
3

RSI consists of the Management’s Discussion and Analysis and the Combined Statement of Budgetary Resources,
by Fund, which are included with the financial statements.

4
Other information consists of information included with the financial statements, other than RSI and the auditor’s
report.
5

Pub. L. No. 107-289, § 2, 116 Stat. 2049-2050 (Nov. 7, 2002), amending 31 U.S.C. § 3515.

Page 1

59

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act), requires that SEC provide separate annual
audited financial statements for IPF to Congress. 6 IPF’s financial transactions are also included
in SEC’s overall financial statements. In accordance with the authority conferred in the Chief
Financial Officers Act of 1990, as amended by the Government Management and Reform Act of
1994, 7 we have audited the SEC and IPF financial statements. Further, in accordance with the
Dodd-Frank Act, we have assessed the effectiveness of SEC’s internal control over financial
reporting, evaluated SEC’s assessment of such effectiveness, and are attesting to SEC’s
assessment of its internal control over financial reporting. SEC’s financial statements comprise
the balance sheets as of September 30, 2015, and 2014; the related statements of net cost of
operations, changes in net position, budgetary resources, and custodial activity for the fiscal
years then ended; and the related notes to the financial statements. IPF’s financial statements
comprise the balance sheets as of September 30, 2015, and 2014; the related statements of net
cost of operations, changes in net position, and budgetary resources for the fiscal years then
ended; and the related notes to the financial statements. We also have audited SEC’s internal
control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2015, based on criteria established under
31 U.S.C. § 3512(c), (d), commonly known as the Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act
(FMFIA).
We conducted our audits in accordance with U.S. generally accepted government auditing
standards. We believe that the audit evidence we obtained is sufficient and appropriate to
provide a basis for our audit opinions.
Management’s Responsibility
SEC management is responsible for (1) the preparation and fair presentation of its financial
statements and those of IPF in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles;
(2) preparing, measuring, and presenting the RSI in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles; (3) preparing and presenting other information included in documents
containing the audited financial statements and auditor’s report, and ensuring the consistency of
that information with the audited financial statements and the RSI; (4) maintaining effective
internal control over financial reporting, including the design, implementation, and maintenance
of internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; (5) evaluating the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established under
FMFIA; and (6) providing its assertion about the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting as of September 30, 2015, based on its evaluation, included in the Management
Assurance section of the annual financial report.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to express opinions on SEC’s and IPF’s financial statements and opinions
on internal control over financial reporting for SEC and for IPF, based on our audits. U.S.
generally accepted government auditing standards require that we plan and perform the audits
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material
misstatement, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in
6

Section 21F(g)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. § 78u-6(g)(5).

7

See the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-576, 104 Stat. 2838 (Nov. 15, 1990), codified, in
relevant part, as amended, at 31 U.S.C. § 3521(g); see also the Government Management Reform Act of 1994, Pub.
L. No. 103-356, 108 Stat. 3410 (Oct. 13, 1994), codified, in relevant part, as amended, at 31 U.S.C. § 3515(c).

Page 2

60

all material respects. We are also responsible for applying certain limited procedures to the RSI
and other information included with the financial statements.
An audit of financial statements involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on
the auditor’s judgment, including the auditor’s assessment of the risks of material misstatement
of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the
auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the
financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances. An audit of financial statements also involves evaluating the appropriateness of
the accounting policies used and the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made
by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. An
audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the
assessed risk, and testing relevant internal control over financial reporting. Our audit of internal
control also considered the entity’s process for evaluating and reporting on internal control over
financial reporting based on criteria established under FMFIA. Our audits also included
performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We did not evaluate all internal controls relevant to operating objectives as broadly established
under FMFIA, such as those controls relevant to preparing performance information and
ensuring efficient operations. We limited our internal control testing to testing controls over
financial reporting. Our internal control testing was for the purpose of expressing an opinion on
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained, in all material
respects. Consequently, our audit may not identify all deficiencies in internal control over
financial reporting that are less severe than a material weakness. 8
Definitions and Inherent Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting
An entity’s internal control over financial reporting is a process effected by those charged with
governance, management, and other personnel, the objectives of which are to provide
reasonable assurance that (1) transactions are properly recorded, processed, and summarized
to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles, and assets are safeguarded against loss from unauthorized acquisition,
use, or disposition, and (2) transactions are executed in accordance with provisions of
applicable laws, including those governing the use of budget authority; regulations; contracts;
and grant agreements, noncompliance with which could have a material effect on the financial
statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent, or
detect and correct, misstatements due to fraud or error. We also caution that projecting any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods is subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies
or procedures may deteriorate.
8
A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such
that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the entity’s financial statements will not be
prevented, or detected and corrected, on a timely basis. A deficiency in internal control exists when the design or
operation of a control does not allow management or employees, in the normal course of performing their assigned
functions, to prevent, or detect and correct, misstatements on a timely basis.

Page 3

61

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Opinion on SEC’s Financial Statements
In our opinion, SEC’s financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, SEC’s financial
position as of September 30, 2015, and 2014, and its net cost of operations, changes in net
position, budgetary resources, and custodial activity for the fiscal years then ended in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Opinion on IPF’s Financial Statements
In our opinion, IPF’s financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, IPF’s financial
position as of September 30, 2015, and 2014, and its net cost of operations, changes in net
position, and budgetary resources for the fiscal years then ended in accordance with U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles.
Opinions on Internal Control over Financial Reporting
In our opinion, SEC maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of September 30, 2015, for SEC and for IPF, based on criteria established under
FMFIA. Our opinions on SEC’s internal control are consistent with SEC’s assertion that its
internal control over financial reporting, both for the agency as a whole and for IPF, were
operating effectively as of September 30, 2015, and that no material weaknesses were found in
the design or operation of the controls.
During fiscal year 2015, SEC made progress in addressing internal control deficiencies we
reported in fiscal year 2014. Specifically, SEC sufficiently addressed the deficiencies in its
accounting for disgorgement and penalty transactions such that we no longer consider the
remaining control deficiencies in this area, individually or collectively, to represent a significant
deficiency as of September 30, 2015. 9
During our 2015 audit, we identified deficiencies in SEC’s internal control over financial
reporting that we do not consider to be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies.
Nonetheless, these deficiencies warrant SEC management’s attention. We have communicated
these matters to SEC management and, where appropriate, will report on them separately.
Other Matters
Required Supplementary Information
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles issued by the Federal Accounting Standards
Advisory Board (FASAB) require that RSI be presented to supplement the financial statements.
Although RSI is not a part of the financial statements, FASAB considers this information to be
an essential part of financial reporting for placing the financial statements in appropriate
operational, economic, or historical context. We have applied certain limited procedures to the
RSI in accordance with U.S. generally accepted government auditing standards, which
consisted of inquiries of management about the methods of preparing the RSI and comparing
the information for consistency with management’s responses to the auditor’s inquiries, the
financial statements, and other knowledge we obtained during the audit of the financial
statements, in order to report omissions or material departures from FASAB guidelines, if any,
identified by these limited procedures. We did not audit and we do not express an opinion or
9

A significant deficiency is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control that is less severe than a
material weakness, yet important enough to merit attention by those charged with governance.

Page 4

62

provide any assurance on the RSI because the limited procedures we applied do not provide
sufficient evidence to express an opinion or provide any assurance.
Other Information
SEC’s other information contains a wide range of information, some of which is not directly
related to the financial statements. This information is presented for purposes of additional
analysis and is not a required part of the financial statements or RSI. We read the other
information included with the financial statements in order to identify material inconsistencies, if
any, with the audited financial statements. Our audit was conducted for the purpose of forming
an opinion on SEC’s and IPF’s financial statements. We did not audit and do not express an
opinion or provide any assurance on the other information.
Report on Compliance with Laws, Regulations, Contracts, and Grant Agreements
In connection with our audits of SEC’s and IPF’s financial statements, we tested compliance
with selected provisions of applicable laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements
consistent with our auditor’s responsibility discussed below. We caution that noncompliance
may occur and not be detected by these tests. We performed our tests of compliance in
accordance with U.S. generally accepted government auditing standards.
Management’s Responsibility
SEC management is responsible for complying with laws, regulations, contracts, and grant
agreements applicable to SEC and IPF.
Auditor’s Responsibility
Our responsibility is to test compliance with selected provisions of laws, regulations, contracts,
and grant agreements applicable to SEC and IPF that have a direct effect on the determination
of material amounts and disclosures in the SEC and IPF financial statements, and perform
certain other limited procedures. Accordingly, we did not test compliance with all laws,
regulations, contracts, and grant agreements applicable to SEC and IPF.
Results of Our Tests for Compliance with Laws, Regulations, Contracts, and Grant Agreements
Our tests for compliance with selected provisions of applicable laws, regulations, contracts, and
grant agreements disclosed no instances of noncompliance for fiscal year 2015 that would be
reportable under U.S. generally accepted government auditing standards. However, the
objective of our tests was not to provide an opinion on compliance with laws, regulations,
contracts, and grant agreements applicable to SEC and IPF. Accordingly, we do not express
such an opinion.
Intended Purpose of Report on Compliance with Laws, Regulations, Contracts, and Grant
Agreements
The purpose of this report is solely to describe the scope of our testing of compliance with
selected provisions of applicable laws, regulations, contracts, and grant agreements, and the
results of that testing, and not to provide an opinion on compliance. This report is an integral
part of an audit performed in accordance with U.S. generally accepted government auditing
standards in considering compliance. Accordingly, this report on compliance with laws,
regulations, contracts, and grant agreements is not suitable for any other purpose.

Page 5

63

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Agency Comments
In commenting on a draft of this report, SEC’s Chair expressed her pleasure that GAO found
that SEC remediated the significant deficiency identified in 2014 related to accounting for
disgorgement and penalties, and attributed this accomplishment to the efforts of the Office of
Financial Management and the Division of Enforcement. The Chair stated that accounting for
disgorgement and penalties will continue to be an area of focus for SEC in the coming year. The
Chair added that SEC has developed requirements for a new disgorgement and penalty subledger aimed toward streamlining the controls in this key area, by providing more
comprehensive information in a more automated fashion. The Chair further commented that in
the coming year, SEC will focus on further improvements to the systems that support financial
controls. The complete text of SEC’s response is reprinted in enclosure I.

James R. Dalkin
Director
Financial Management and Assurance
November 13, 2015

Page 6

64

FINANCIAL SECTION

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Enclosure I: Management’s Response to Audit Opinion

November 10, 2015

Mr. James R. Dalkin
Director
Financial Management and Assurance
United States Government Accountability Office
441 G Street, N.W.
Washington, DC 20548
Dear Mr. Dalkin:
Thank you for the opportunity to review and comment on the audit report of the
Government Accountability Office (GAO). I am pleased that the GAO’s FY 2015 audit found
that the SEC’s financial statements and notes were presented fairly, in all material respects, and
in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
Furthermore, I am pleased the GAO found the SEC no longer has a significant deficiency
related to accounting for disgorgement and penalties, as was identified in 2014. The SEC has
worked diligently to address GAO’s recommendations in this highly complex area. I would
particularly like to recognize the Office of Financial Management and the Division of
Enforcement for their efforts in the SEC’s remediation of this matter. Nevertheless, the
accounting for disgorgements and penalties will continue to be an area of focus for the SEC in
the coming year. We have developed requirements for a new disgorgement and penalty subledger system, and the effort to implement the system will commence in FY 2016. This system
is aimed towards streamlining the controls in this key area, by providing more comprehensive
information in a more automated fashion.
In the coming year we are also focused on further improvements to the systems that
support our financial controls. Efforts are underway to modernize the systems related to filing
fees, property management, and budget execution and formulation. We believe that investing in
technology solutions is the key to putting our controls on a sustainable path over the long term.
I very much appreciate the professional manner in which you and your team conducted
the audit for FY 2015. If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me.
Sincerely,

Mary Jo White
Chair

65

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

This page was left intentionally blank.

66

Sec Financial
StatementS
Financial Statements

68

Notes to the Financial Statements

74

Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited) 103

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Financial Statements
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Balance Sheets
As of September 30, 2015 and 2014
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015

FY 2014

$	7,618,768

$	8,210,610

2,867,146

1,755,689

ASSETS (Note 2):
Intragovernmental:
Fund Balance with Treasury (Note 3)
Investments, Net (Note 5)
Accounts Receivable (Note 6)
Advances and Prepayments
Total Intragovernmental
Cash and Other Monetary Assets (Note 4)

26

19

6,213

3,488

10,492,153

9,969,806

39

731

Accounts Receivable, Net (Note 6)

860,022

506,605

Property and Equipment, Net (Note 7)

103,604

113,292

4

	—

$	11,455,822

$	10,590,434

Accounts Payable

$	3,027

$	7,249

Employee Benefits

5,068

4,017

Unfunded FECA and Unemployment Liability

1,182

1,286

500,238

223,363

1,802

3,752

511,317

239,667

44,380

64,830

6,054

6,821

Accrued Payroll and Benefits

58,165

37,931

Accrued Leave

67,635

58,498

Registrant Deposits

35,050

34,766

3,028,960

2,451,397

14,555

	—

6,496

5,830

3,772,612

2,899,740

	–

764

7,683,210

7,688,738

Advances and Prepayments
Total Assets
LIABILITIES (Note 8):
Intragovernmental:

Custodial Liability
Liability for Non-Entity Assets
Total Intragovernmental
Accounts Payable
Actuarial FECA Liability

Liability for Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Contingent Liabilities (Note 10)
Other Accrued Liabilities (Note 8)
Total Liabilities
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 10)
NET POSITION:
Unexpended Appropriations – All Other Funds
Cumulative Results of Operations – Funds from Dedicated Collections (Note 11)

	–

1,192

7,683,210

7,688,738

Total Net Position – All Other Funds

	–

1,956

Total Net Position

$	7,683,210

$	7,690,694

$	11,455,822

$	10,590,434

Cumulative Results of Operations – All Other Funds
Total Net Position – Funds from Dedicated Collections (Note 11)

Total Liabilities and Net Position
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

68

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Statements of Net Cost
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015

FY 2014

PROGRAM COSTS (Note 12):
$	549,396

$	487,047

Compliance Inspections and Examinations

325,745

281,738

Corporation Finance

156,327

146,276

Trading and Markets

86,219

79,246

Investment Management

61,807

57,328

Economic and Risk Analysis

63,701

43,366

General Counsel

50,244

42,826

Enforcement

Other Program Offices

69,926

61,830

208,334

232,575

11,922

8,764

Total Program Costs

1,583,621

1,440,996

Less: Earned Revenue Not Attributed to Programs (Note 12)

2,070,235

1,906,258

$	(486,614)

$	(465,262)

Agency Direction and Administrative Support
Inspector General

Net (Income) Cost from Operations (Note 15)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

69

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Statements of Changes in Net Position
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014
FY 2015
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Funds from
Dedicated Collections

All Other Funds

Consolidated Total

$	7,688,738

$	1,192

$	7,689,930

5,705

	—

5,705

867

	—

867
	—

CUMULATIVE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS:
Beginning Balances
Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Used
Non-Exchange Revenue
Other Financing Sources:
Transfers In/Out without Reimbursement
Imputed Financing (Note 13)
Other (Note 17)
Total Financing Sources

1,192

	(1,192)

31,316

	—

31,316

	—

	(531,222)

	(531,222)

39,080

	(532,414)

	(493,334)

Net Income (Cost) from Operations

	(44,608)

531,222

486,614

Net Change

	(5,528)

	(1,192)

	(6,720)

7,683,210

	—

7,683,210

	—

764

764

Cumulative Results of Operations (Note 11)
UNEXPENDED APPROPRIATIONS:
Beginning Balances
Budgetary Financing Sources:

8,087

	—

8,087

Other Adjustments

	(2,382)

	(764)

	(3,146)

Appropriations Used

	(5,705)

	—

	(5,705)

Total Budgetary Financing Sources

	—

	(764)

	(764)

	—

	—

	—

$	7,683,210

$	—

$	7,683,210

Appropriations Received

Total Unexpended Appropriations
Net Position, End of Period

70

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Statements of Changes in Net Position (continued)
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014
FY 2014
Funds from
Dedicated Collections

All Other Funds

Consolidated Total

$	7,653,217

$	1,192

$	7,654,409

59,013

	—

59,013

579

	—

579

	—

—

	—

39,556

	—

39,556

	—

	(528,889)

	(528,889)

Total Financing Sources

99,148

	(528,889)

	(429,741)

Net Income (Cost) from Operations

(63,627)

	528,889

	465,262

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

CUMULATIVE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS:
Beginning Balances
Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Used
Non-Exchange Revenue
Other Financing Sources:
Transfers In/Out without Reimbursement
Imputed Financing (Note 13)
Other (Note 17)

Net Change
Cumulative Results of Operations (Note 11)

35,521

	—

35,521

7,688,738

1,192

7,689,930

	—

764

764

UNEXPENDED APPROPRIATIONS:
Beginning Balances
Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Received
Other Adjustments
Appropriations Used
Total Budgetary Financing Sources
Total Unexpended Appropriations
Net Position, End of Period

59,013

	—

59,013

	—

	—

	—

(59,013)

	—

(59,013)

	—

	—

	—

	—

764

764

$	7,688,738

$	1,956

$	7,690,694

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

71

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Statements of Budgetary Resources
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014
FY 2015

FY 2014

$	123,644
34,261
	(764)
157,141
60,052
1,495,633

$	144,766
33,554
	—
178,320
79,763
1,292,430

$	1,712,826

$	1,550,513

$	1,550,271

$	1,426,869

433,657
328
	(271,430)
162,555

455,849
327
(332,532)
123,644

Total Budgetary Resources

$	1,712,826

$	1,550,513

CHANGE IN OBLIGATED BALANCE:
Unpaid Obligations:
Unpaid Obligations, Brought Forward, October 1 (Gross)
Obligations Incurred
Outlays (Gross)

$	915,846
1,550,271
	(1,526,013)

$	854,647
1,426,869
(1,332,116)

	(34,261)
905,843

(33,554)
915,846

	(435)
409
	(26)
905,817

(252)
(183)
(435)
915,411

$	915,411

$	854,395

$	905,817

$	915,411

$	1,555,685
	(1,493,660)

$	1,372,193
(1,292,247)

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Unobligated Balance, Brought Forward, October 1
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Other Changes in Unobligated Balance
Unobligated Balance from Prior Year Budget Authority, Net
Appropriations (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Spending Authority from Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Total Budgetary Resources
STATUS OF BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Obligations Incurred (Note 14):
Unobligated Balance, End of Year:
Apportioned
Exempt from Apportionment
Unapportioned
Total Unobligated Balance, End of Year

Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Unpaid Obligations, End of Year
Uncollected Payments:
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, Brought Forward, October 1
Change in Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, End of Year
Obligated Balance, End of Year
Memorandum (non-add) entries:
Obligated Balance, Start of Year
Obligated Balance, End of Year
BUDGET AUTHORITY AND OUTLAYS, NET:
Budget Authority, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Change in Uncollected Customer Payments from Federal Sources
(Discretionary and Mandatory)

409

(183)

Budget Authority, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)

$	62,434

$	79,763

Outlays, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Distributed Offsetting Receipts
Agency Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)

$	1,526,013
	(1,493,660)
32,353
1,659
$	34,012

$	1,332,116
(1,292,247)
39,869
(1,929)
$	37,940

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

72

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Statements of Custodial Activity
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

FY 2015

FY 2014

$	764,052

$	825,027

REVENUE ACTIVITY:
Sources of Cash Collections:
Disgorgement and Penalties
Other
Total Cash Collections
Accrual Adjustments
Total Custodial Revenue

1,505

2,702

765,557

827,729

276,874

154,532

1,042,431

982,261

765,557

827,729

DISPOSITION OF COLLECTIONS:
Amounts Transferred to:
Department of the Treasury
Amounts Yet to be Transferred
Total Disposition of Collections
NET CUSTODIAL ACTIVITY

276,874

154,532

1,042,431

982,261

$	—

$	—

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

73

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Notes to the Financial Statements
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

As of September 30, 2015 and 2014

NOTE 1. Significant Accounting Policies
A. Reporting Entity
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is an
independent agency of the U.S. Government established
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange
Act), charged with regulating this country’s capital markets.
The SEC’s mission is to protect investors; maintain fair,
orderly, and efficient markets; and facilitate capital formation. The SEC works with Congress, other executive branch
agencies, Self-Regulatory Organizations (SROs) (e.g., stock
exchanges and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
(FINRA)), accounting and auditing standards setters, state
securities regulators, law enforcement officials, and many
other organizations in support of the agency’s mission.
The agency protects investors and promotes the public
interest by establishing and maintaining an effective
regulatory environment; fostering and enforcing compliance
with the Federal securities laws; facilitating access to the
information investors need to make informed investment
decisions; and enhancing the SEC’s performance through
effective alignment and management of human, information,
and financial capital.
The SEC consists of five presidentially-appointed
Commissioners, with staggered five-year terms. The SEC
is organized into five divisions and multiple offices. The five
divisions are the Division of Enforcement, the Division of
Corporation Finance, the Division of Trading and Markets,
the Division of Investment Management, and the Division of
Economic and Risk Analysis. The offices include the Office
of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, the Office
of General Counsel, the Office of Investor Education and
Advocacy, the Office of the Chief Accountant, the Office
of International Affairs, the Office of Administrative Law
Judges, the Office of Credit Ratings, the Office of the Investor
Advocate, the Office of Municipal Securities, the Office
of Inspector General, eleven regional offices, and various
supporting services.

74

The SEC reporting entity includes the Investor Protection
Fund (See Note 1.S, Investor Protection Fund). In addition to
being included in the SEC’s financial statements, the Investor
Protection Fund’s financial activities and balances are also
presented separately as stand-alone financial statements,
as required by Exchange Act Section 21F(g)5.
As discussed in Note 10.A, Commitments: Securities
Investor Protection Act, the SEC reporting entity does not
include the Securities Investor Protection Corporation (SIPC).
As discussed in Note 1.R, Disgorgement and Penalties,
disgorgement funds collected and held by the SEC on behalf
of harmed investors are part of the SEC reporting entity.
However, disgorgement funds held by the U.S. Courts and
by non-Federal receivers on behalf of harmed investors are
not part of the SEC reporting entity.

B. Basis of Presentation and Accounting
The accompanying financial statements present the financial
position, net cost of operations, changes in net position,
budgetary resources, and custodial activities of the SEC
as required by the Accountability of Tax Dollars Act of
2002. The statements may differ from other financial reports
submitted pursuant to Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) directives for the purpose of monitoring and controlling the use of the SEC’s budgetary resources, due to differences in accounting and reporting principles discussed in
the following paragraphs. The SEC’s books and records
serve as the source of the information presented in the
accompanying financial statements.
The agency classifies assets, liabilities, revenues, and costs
in these financial statements according to the type of entity
associated with the transactions. Intragovernmental assets
and liabilities are those due from or to other Federal entities.
Intragovernmental revenues are earned from other Federal
entities. Intragovernmental costs are payments or accruals
due to other Federal entities.

The SEC’s financial statements are prepared in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) for
Federal reporting entities and presented in conformity with
OMB Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements.
The Balance Sheet, Statement of Net Cost, and Statement
of Changes in Net Position are prepared using the accrual
basis of accounting. Accordingly, revenues are recognized
when earned and expenses are recognized when incurred
without regard to the receipt or payment of cash. These
principles differ from budgetary accounting and reporting
principles on which the Statement of Budgetary Resources is
prepared. The differences relate primarily to the capitalization
and depreciation of property and equipment, as well as the
recognition of other assets and liabilities. The Statement of
Custodial Activity is presented on the modified cash basis
of accounting. Cash collections and amounts transferred
to Treasury or the Investor Protection Fund are reported
on a cash basis. The change in receivables and related
payables are reported on an accrual basis.
The SEC presents net cost of operations by program.
OMB Circular A-136 defines the term “major program” as
describing an agency’s mission, strategic goals, functions,
activities, services, projects, processes, or any other meaningful grouping. The presentation by program is consistent
with the presentation used by the agency in submitting its
budget requests.

C. Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with GAAP requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions include,
but are not limited to, the disclosure of contingent liabilities
at the date of the financial statements and the reported
amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates are also used when computing the allowance
for uncollectible accounts and in the allocation of costs to
the SEC programs presented in the Statement of Net Cost.

Employee Suggestion Program on a reimbursable basis. This
has given rise to a small amount of intra-entity eliminations
of the related revenue and expense transactions between
the Investor Protection Fund and the SEC’s General Salaries
and Expenses Fund. See Note 1.E, Fund Accounting
Structure, for more information about the SEC’s Treasury
Appropriation Symbols.

E. Fund Accounting Structure
The SEC, in common with other Federal agencies, utilizes
various Treasury Appropriation Fund Symbols (Funds), to
recognize and track appropriation authority provided by
Congress, collections from the public, and other financial
activity. These funds are described below:

(1)	Funds from Dedicated Collections: Statement of
Federal Financial Accounting Standards 27, Identifying
and Reporting Funds from Dedicated Collections, as
amended, states that, “funds from dedicated collections are financed by specifically identified revenues,
provided to the government by non-federal sources,
often supplemented by other financing sources, which
remain available over time. These specifically identified
revenues and other financing sources are required by
statute to be used for designated activities, benefits or
purposes, and must be accounted for separately from
the Government’s general revenues.” The SEC’s funds
from dedicated collections are deposited into Fund
X0100, Salaries and Expenses; Fund X5567, Investor
Protection Fund; and Fund X5566, Reserve Fund.

D. Intra- and Inter-Agency Relationships

•	 Salaries and Expenses: Earned revenues from
securities transaction fees from SROs are deposited
into Fund X0100, Salaries and Expenses, Securities
and Exchange Commission. These collections
are dedicated to carrying out the SEC’s mission,
functions, and day to day operations and may be
used in accordance with spending limits established
by Congress. Collections in excess of Congressional
spending limits are unavailable by law and reported
as Non-Budgetary Fund Balance with Treasury (See
Note 3, Fund Balance with Treasury).

The SEC is a single Federal agency composed of various
Treasury Appropriation Symbols, and it has only limited intraentity transactions. The Investor Protection Fund finances
the operations of the SEC Office of Inspector General’s

•	 Investor Protection Fund: The Investor Protection
Fund is a fund for dedicated collections that provides
funding for the payment of whistleblower awards
as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The Investor

75

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Protection Fund is financed by a portion of monetary
sanctions collected by the SEC in judicial or administrative actions brought by the SEC. Persons may
receive award payments from the Fund if they
voluntarily provide original information to the SEC
that results in a successful enforcement action and
other conditions are met. In addition, the Fund is
used to finance the operations of the SEC’s Office of
Inspector General’s Employee Suggestion Program for
the receipt of suggestions for improvements in work
efficiency and effectiveness, and allegations of misconduct or mismanagement within the SEC. This activity
is recognized in Fund X5567, Monetary Sanctions
and Interest, Investor Protection Fund, Securities and
Exchange Commission (Investor Protection Fund).
See Note 1.S, Investor Protection Fund.
•	 Reserve Fund: A portion of SEC registration fee
collections up to $50 million in any one fiscal year
may be deposited in the Reserve Fund, the balance
of which cannot exceed $100 million. The Reserve
Fund is a fund for dedicated collections that may be
used by the SEC to obligate up to $100 million in
one fiscal year as the SEC determines necessary to
carry out its functions. Although amounts deposited
in the Reserve Fund are not subject to apportionment, the SEC must notify Congress when funds
are obligated. Resources available in the Reserve
Fund may be rescinded or sequestered through
Congressional action. This activity is recognized in
Fund X5566, Securities and Exchange Commission
Reserve Fund.

Fees, Securities and Exchange Commission; Fund
1060, Forfeitures of Unclaimed Money and Property;
Fund 1099, Fines, Penalties, and Forfeitures, Not
Otherwise Classified; Fund 1435, General Fund
Proprietary Interest, Not Otherwise Classified; and
Fund 3220, General Fund Proprietary Receipts,
Not Otherwise Classified. Miscellaneous Receipt
Accounts are reported as “All Other Funds” on the
Statement of Changes in Net Position.

(3)		 Deposit Funds:
•	 The Deposit Funds hold disgorgement, penalties, and
interest collected and held on behalf of harmed investors, registrant monies held temporarily until earned
by the SEC, and collections awaiting disposition or
reclassification. These activities are recognized in Fund
X6561, Unearned Fees, Securities and Exchange
Commission and Fund X6563, Disgorgement and
Penalty Amounts Held for Investors, Securities and
Exchange Commission. Deposit Funds do not impact
the SEC’s Net Position and are not reported on the
Statement of Changes in Net Position.
The SEC’s lending and borrowing authority is limited to
authority to borrow funds from Treasury and loan funds to
the Securities Investor Protection Corporation, as discussed
in Note 10, Commitments and Contingencies. The SEC has
custodial responsibilities, as disclosed in Note 1.L, Liabilities.

F. Entity and Non-Entity Assets
Entity assets are assets that the SEC may use in its operations.

(2)		 Miscellaneous Receipt Accounts:
•	 The Miscellaneous Receipt Accounts hold non-entity
receipts and accounts receivable from custodial
activities that the SEC cannot deposit into funds
under its control. These accounts include registration fee collections in excess of amounts deposited
into the Reserve Fund, receipts pursuant to certain
SEC enforcement actions and other small collections
that will be sent to the U.S. Treasury General Fund
upon collection. These activities are recognized in
Fund 0850.150, Registration, Filing, and Transaction

76

Non-entity assets are assets that the SEC holds on behalf of
another Federal agency or a third party and are not available
for the SEC’s use. The SEC’s non-entity assets include the
following: (a) disgorgement, penalties, and interest collected
and held or invested by the SEC; (b) disgorgement, penalties, and interest receivable that will be collected by the SEC;
(c) securities registration, tender offer, merger, and other
fees collected and receivable from registrants, in excess of
amounts deposited in the SEC’s Reserve Fund; and (d) other
miscellaneous receivables and collections, such as registrant
monies held temporarily until earned by the SEC.

G. Fund Balance with Treasury

Entity Accounts Receivable

Fund Balance with Treasury (FBWT) reflects amounts the
SEC holds in the U.S. Treasury that have not been invested in
Federal securities. The components of the SEC’s FBWT are
in the various funds described in Note 1.E, Fund Accounting
Structure.

The bulk of the SEC’s entity accounts receivable arise from
securities transaction fees. In addition, the SEC has small
amounts of activity arising from the sale of services provided
by the SEC to other Federal agencies and employee-related
debt. Entity accounts receivable balances are normally small
at year-end due to the timing and payment requirements
relative to the largest categories of accounts receivable
activity. Specifically, securities transaction fees are payable
to the SEC twice a year: in March for the period September
through December, and in September for the period January
through August. Accordingly, the year-end accounts receivable accrual generally represents fees payable to the SEC for
one month of securities transaction fee activity (September).

The SEC conducts all of its banking activity in accordance
with directives issued by the U.S. Department of the
Treasury’s Bureau of the Fiscal Service.

H. Investments
The SEC has the authority to invest disgorgement funds in
Treasury securities including civil penalties collected under
the “Fair Fund” provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
As the funds are collected, the SEC holds them in a deposit
fund account and may invest them in overnight and shortterm market-based Treasury securities through the Bureau of
the Fiscal Service. The interest earned is subject to taxation
under Treasury Regulation Section 1.468B-2, Taxation of
Qualified Settlement Funds and Related Administrative
Requirements.
The SEC also has authority to invest amounts in the Investor
Protection Fund in overnight and short-term market-based
Treasury securities through the Bureau of the Fiscal Service.
The interest earned on the investments is a component
of the balance of the Fund and available to be used for
expenses of the Investor Protection Fund.
Additional information regarding the SEC’s investments is
provided in Note 5, Investments.

I. Accounts Receivable and Allowance
for Uncollectible Accounts
SEC’s entity and non-entity accounts receivable consist
primarily of amounts due from the public. Entity accounts
receivable are amounts that the SEC may retain upon collection. Non-entity accounts receivable are amounts that the
SEC will forward to another Federal agency or to the public
after the funds are collected.

Non-Entity Accounts Receivable
Non-entity accounts receivable arise mainly from amounts
assessed against violators of securities laws, including
disgorgement of illegal gains, civil penalties, and related
assessed interest. The SEC is responsible for collection, and
recognizes a receivable, when an order of the Commission
or a Federal court directs payment to the SEC or the U.S.
Treasury.
Interest recognized by the SEC on non-entity accounts
receivable includes prejudgment interest specified by the
court or administrative order as well as post-judgment
interest on collectible accounts. The SEC does not recognize
interest revenue on accounts considered to be uncollectible.
The SEC’s enforcement investigation and litigation activities
often result in court orders directing violators of Federal
securities laws to pay amounts assessed to a Federal court
or to a non-Federal receiver acting on behalf of harmed
investors. These orders are not recognized as accounts
receivable by the SEC because the debts are payable to,
and collected by, another party.
Securities registration, tender offer, merger, and other fees
from registrants (filing fee) collections in excess of those
deposited into the SEC’s Reserve Fund are not available for
the SEC’s operations and are transferred to the U.S. Treasury
General Fund. Accounts receivable amounts arising from

77

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

filing fees in excess of those deposited into the Reserve Fund
are non-entity and are held on behalf of the U.S. Treasury.

Allowance for Uncollectible Amounts
The SEC uses a three-tiered methodology for calculating the
allowance for loss on its disgorgement and penalty accounts
receivable. The first tier involves making an individual collection assessment of cases that represent at least 65 percent
of the portfolio. The second and third tiers are composed of
the remaining cases that are equal to or less than 30 days old
and over 30 days old, respectively. For the second and third
tiers, the SEC applies an allowance rate based on historical
collection data analysis.
The SEC calculates the allowance for uncollectible amounts
and the related provision for estimated losses for filing fees
and other accounts receivable using an analysis of historical
collection data. No allowance for uncollectible amounts or
related provision for estimated losses has been established
for securities transaction fees payable by SROs, as these
amounts are fully collectible based on historical experience.
The SEC writes off receivables aged two or more years by
removing the debt amounts from the gross accounts receivable and any related allowance for uncollectible accounts.

J. Other Assets
Payments made in advance of the receipt of goods and
services are recorded as advances or prepayments and
recognized as expenses when the related goods and
services are received.

K. Property and Equipment, Net
The SEC’s property and equipment consists of software,
general-purpose equipment used by the agency, capital
improvements made to buildings leased by the SEC for
office space, and, when applicable, internal-use software
development costs for projects in development. The SEC
reports property and equipment purchases and additions
at historical cost. The agency expenses property and
equipment acquisitions that do not meet the capitalization
criteria as well as normal repairs and maintenance.
The SEC depreciates property and equipment over the
estimated useful lives using the straight-line method of

78

depreciation. The agency removes property and equipment
from its asset accounts in the period of disposal, retirement,
or removal from service. The SEC recognizes the difference
between the book value and any proceeds as a gain or loss
in the period that the asset is removed.

L. Liabilities
The SEC recognizes liabilities for probable future outflows
or other sacrifices of resources as a result of events that
have occurred as of the Balance Sheet date. The SEC’s
liabilities consist of routine operating accounts payable,
accrued payroll and benefits, legal liabilities, liabilities to
offset non-entity assets such as registrant monies held
temporarily until earned by the SEC, disgorgement and
penalties collected and receivable, and amounts collected
or receivable on behalf of the U.S. Treasury. Refer to Note
1.F, Entity and Non-Entity Assets, for additional information.

Enforcement Related Liabilities
A liability for disgorgement and penalties arises when an
order is issued for the SEC to collect disgorgement, penalties, and interest from securities law violators. When the
Commission or court issues such an order, the SEC establishes an accounts receivable due to the SEC offset by a
liability. The presentation of this liability on the Balance Sheet
is dependent upon several factors. If the court or Commission
order indicates that collections are to be retained by the
Federal Government, either by transfer to the U.S. Treasury
General Fund or to the Investor Protection Fund, the liabilities
are classified as custodial (that is, collected on behalf of the
Government) and intragovernmental. If the order indicates
that the funds are eligible for distribution to harmed investors, the SEC will recognize a Governmental liability (that
is, a liability of the Government to make a payment to the
public). This liability is not presented as a custodial liability.
The SEC does not record liabilities on its financial statements for disgorgement and penalty amounts that another
Government entity such as a court, or a non-governmental
entity, such as a receiver, has collected or will collect.
In accordance with the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act,
collections not distributed to harmed investors may be
transferred to either the Investor Protection Fund or the
U.S. Treasury General Fund. Collections not distributed to
harmed investors are transferred to the Investor Protection

Fund if the Fund’s balance does not exceed $300 million
at the time of collection. Refer to Note 16, Disgorgement
and Penalties for additional information.

Liability Classification
The SEC recognizes liabilities that are covered by budgetary
resources, liabilities that are not covered by budgetary
resources, and liabilities that do not require the use of
budgetary resources.
Liabilities that are covered by budgetary resources are
liabilities incurred for which budgetary resources are available to the SEC during the reporting period without further
Congressional action.
The SEC also recognizes liabilities not covered by budgetary
resources. Budgetary and financial statement reporting
requirements sometimes differ on the timing for the required
recognition of an expense. For example, in the financial
statements, annual leave expense must be accrued in the
reporting period when the annual leave is earned. However,
in the budget, annual leave is required to be recognized and
funded in the fiscal year when the annual leave is either used
or paid out to a separating employee, not when it is earned.
As a result of this timing difference, accrued annual leave
liability is classified as a liability “not covered by budgetary
resources” as of the financial statement date.
Liabilities that do not require the use of budgetary resources
include registrant monies held temporarily until earned by
the SEC and offsetting liabilities that correspond to nonentity assets that the SEC holds, such as collections and
receivables from disgorgements and penalties. Liabilities that
do not require the use of budgetary resources are covered
by assets that do not represent budgetary resources to the
SEC. Refer to Note 8, Liabilities Covered and Not Covered
by Budgetary Resources, for more information.

M. Employee Retirement Systems
and Benefits
The SEC’s employees may participate in either the Civil
Service Retirement System (CSRS) or the Federal Employees
Retirement System (FERS), depending on when they started
working for the Federal Government. FERS and Social Security
automatically cover most employees hired after December 31,

1983. Employees who are rehired after a break in service of
more than one year and who had five years of Federal civilian
service prior to 1987 are eligible to participate in the CSRS
offset retirement system or may elect to join FERS.
All employees are eligible to contribute to a Thrift Savings
Plan (TSP). For those employees participating in FERS, the
TSP is automatically established, and the SEC makes a
mandatory 1 percent contribution to this plan. In addition,
the SEC matches contributions ranging from 1 to 4 percent
for FERS-eligible employees who contribute to their TSP.
Employees participating in CSRS do not receive matching
contributions to their TSP. The SEC contributes the employer’s
matching amount to the Social Security Administration under
the Federal Insurance Contributions Act, which fully covers
FERS participating employees. The SEC is currently finalizing
the creation of a supplemental retirement contribution program
that would match an employee’s TSP contribution of up to
1 percent of the employee’s salary on dollar-for-dollar basis
retroactive to January 13, 2013, within the IRS contribution
guidelines. Beginning October 5, 2014, the new supplemental
retirement match was increased from 1 percent to 3 percent for
bargaining unit employees. The new supplemental retirement
match was increased from 1 percent to 3 percent for SEC
supervisors and managers effective January 2014. The SEC
has accrued an estimated liability to account for the costs
of these benefits.
The SEC does not report CSRS, FERS, Federal Employees
Health Benefits Program, Federal Employees Group Life
Insurance Program assets, or accumulated plan benefits;
the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM) reports
this information.

N. Injury and Post-employment
Compensation
The Federal Employees’ Compensation Act (FECA),
administered by the U.S. Department of Labor (DOL),
provides income and medical cost protection to covered
Federal civilian employees harmed on the job or who have
contracted an occupational disease, and dependents of
employees whose death is attributable to a job-related
injury or occupational disease. The DOL bills the SEC
annually as claims are paid, and the SEC in turn accrues
a liability to recognize the future payments. Payment on
these bills is deferred for two years to allow for funding

79

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

through the budget process. Similarly, employees that the
SEC terminates without cause may receive unemployment
compensation benefits under the unemployment insurance
program also administered by the DOL, which bills each
agency quarterly for paid claims.
In addition, the SEC records an estimate for the FECA
actuarial liability using the DOL’s FECA model. The model
considers the average amount of benefit payments incurred
by the SEC for the past three fiscal years, multiplied by the
medical and compensation liability to benefits paid ratio for
the whole FECA program.

O. Annual, Sick, and Other Leave
The SEC accrues annual leave and compensatory time as
earned and reduces the accrual when leave is taken. The
balances in the accrued leave accounts reflect current leave
balances and pay rates. No portion of this liability has been
obligated because budget execution rules do not permit
current or prior year funding to be used to pay for leave
earned but not yet either taken or paid as a lump sum upon
termination during the reporting period. Accordingly, such
accrued leave is reported as “not covered by budgetary
resources.” Refer to Note 8, Liabilities Covered and Not
Covered by Budgetary Resources. The SEC expenses sick
leave and other types of non-vested leave as used.

P. Revenue and Other Financing Sources
The SEC’s revenue and financing sources include exchange
revenues, which are generated from transactions in which
both parties give and receive value, and non-exchange
revenues, which arise from the Federal Government’s ability
to demand payment.

Exchange Revenue
The SEC’s exchange revenue consists primarily of collections
of securities transaction fees from SROs and of securities
registration, tender offer, merger, and other fees from registrants (filing fees). The fee rates are calculated by the SEC’s
Division of Economic and Risk Analysis and established by
the SEC in accordance with Federal law and are applied to
volumes of activity reported by SROs or to filings submitted
by registrants. Fees are recognized as exchange revenue on
the effective date of transaction or filing. These fee collections

80

are the primary source of the SEC’s funding and may be used
up to limits established by Congress. See Note 1.E, Fund
Accounting Structure.
The SEC recognizes amounts remitted by registrants in
advance of the transaction or filing date as a liability until
earned by the SEC or returned to the registrant. Federal
regulation requires the return of registrant advance deposits
when an account is dormant for three years, except in certain
cases where refunds are not permitted. The Securities Act of
1933 and the Exchange Act do not permit refunds to registrants for securities that remain unsold after the completion,
termination, or withdrawal of an offering. However, Code of
Federal Regulations (CFR) Title 17 Chapter II, Part 230, Section
457(p) permits filers to offset a fee paid (filing fee offset) for a
subsequent registration statement (offering) filed within five
years of the initial filing date of the earlier registration statement.
The total aggregate dollar amount of the filing fee associated
with the unsold securities may be offset against the total filing
fee due on the subsequent offering. Unused filing fee offsets
are not a liability to the SEC because registrants cannot obtain
refunds of fees or additional services in relation to securities
that remain unsold. However, filing fee offsets may reduce
revenue earned in future accounting periods.
These exchange revenues are a means to recover all or most
of the cost of the total cost of all SEC programs and to deposit
excess filing fee collections to the Treasury General Fund.
As a result, they are shown as offsetting the total costs of
the organization in the Statement of Net Cost, rather than
individual SEC programs. This presentation is consistent with
the financial accounting concepts described in Statement of
Federal Financial Accounting Concepts 2, Entity and Display.

Non-exchange Revenue
The SEC’s non-exchange revenue mainly consists of
amounts collected from violators of securities laws as a
result of enforcement proceedings. These amounts may
take the form of disgorgement of illegal gains, civil penalties, and related interest. Amounts collected may be paid
to injured investors, transferred to the Investor Protection
Fund, or transferred to the U.S. Treasury General Fund,
based on established policy and regulation.
All non-exchange revenue expected to be forwarded to either
the U.S. Treasury General Fund or Investor Protection Fund
is recognized on the Statement of Custodial Activity. The

Investor Protection Fund recognizes non-exchange revenue
on the Statement of Changes in Net Position when funds
are transferred into the Investor Protection Fund. The result
is that, in accordance with Federal accounting standards,
the entire amount of custodial activity is presented on the
Statement of Custodial Activity to document the movement
of funds, and the portion retained by the SEC is recognized
as SEC activity.
The SEC does not recognize amounts collected and held
by another government entity, such as a court registry, or
a non-government entity, such as a receiver.

Q. Budgets and Budgetary Accounting
Salaries and Expenses
The SEC deposits securities transaction fee revenue in
the SEC’s Salaries and Expenses account. However, the
SEC may use funds from this account only as authorized
by Congress and made available by OMB apportionment,
upon issuance of a Treasury warrant. Revenue collected in
excess of appropriated amounts is restricted from use by
the SEC. Collections in excess of Congressional spending
limits are unavailable by law and reported as Non-Budgetary
Fund Balance with Treasury (See Note 3, Fund Balance
with Treasury). Each fiscal year, OMB provides the SEC’s
Salaries and Expenses account with Category A apportionments, which are quarterly distributions of budgetary
resources for the fiscal year. These apportionments include
both new budget authority appropriated by Congress and
unused no-year funds (unobligated balances) from prior
years. The Salaries and Expenses account also receives a
small amount of Category B funds related to reimbursable
activity, which are exempt from quarterly apportionment.
Refer to Note 1.E, Fund Accounting Structure.

Investor Protection Fund
The Investor Protection Fund is a special fund that has the
authority to retain revenues and other financing sources
not used in the current period for future use. The DoddFrank Act provides that the Fund is available to the SEC
without further appropriation or fiscal year limitation for the
purpose of funding awards to whistleblowers and for the
operations of the Office of Inspector General’s Employee
Suggestion Program. However, the SEC is required to

request and obtain an annual apportionment from OMB to
use these funds. All of the funds are Category B, exempt
from quarterly apportionment. Refer to Note 1.E, Fund
Accounting Structure.

Reserve Fund
The Reserve Fund is a special fund that has the authority
to retain certain revenues not used in the current period for
future use. The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the Fund is
available to the SEC without further appropriation or fiscal
year limitation “to carry out the functions of the Commission.”
Amounts in the Reserve Fund are exempt from apportionment. Collections arising from securities registration, tender
offer, and merger fees from registrants, other than those
that are deposited in the Reserve Fund, are not available to
be used in the operations of the SEC. Refer to Note 1. E,
Fund Accounting Structure.

R. Disgorgement and Penalties
The SEC maintains non-entity assets related to disgorgements and penalties ordered pursuant to civil injunctive and
administrative proceedings. The SEC also recognizes an
equal and offsetting liability for these assets as discussed
in Note 1.L, Liabilities. These non-entity assets consist of
disgorgement, penalties, and interest assessed against
securities law violators where the Commission or a Federal
court has determined that the SEC should return such funds
to harmed investors or transfer such funds to the Investor
Protection Fund or the U.S. Treasury General Fund. The
SEC does not record on its financial statements any asset
amounts that another government entity such as a court, or
a non-governmental entity, such as a receiver, has collected
or will collect. Additional details regarding disgorgement and
penalties are presented in Note 11, Funds from Dedicated
Collections and Note 16, Disgorgement and Penalties.

S. Investor Protection Fund
The Investor Protection Fund was established through a
permanent indefinite appropriation to provide financing
for payments to whistleblowers and is also used for the
expenses of the SEC Office of Inspector General’s Employee
Suggestion Program. The Investor Protection Fund is
financed by transferring a portion of monetary sanctions
collected by the SEC in judicial or administrative actions

81

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

brought by the SEC under the securities laws that are not
added to a disgorgement fund or other funds intended for
harmed investors under Section 308 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7246). Sanctions collected by the
Commission payable either to the SEC or the U.S. Treasury
General Fund will be transferred to the Investor Protection
Fund if the balance in that fund is less than $300 million on
the day of collection.

The SEC may request the Secretary of the Treasury to invest
Investor Protection Fund amounts in Treasury securities. Refer
to Note 1.H, Investments, for additional details.

NOTE 2. Entity and Non-Entity Assets
Entity assets are assets that the SEC may use in its
operations.
Non-entity assets are assets that the SEC holds on behalf of
another Federal agency or a third party and are not available
for the SEC’s use. The SEC’s non-entity assets include the
following: (a) disgorgement, penalties, and interest collected
and held or invested by the SEC; (b) disgorgement, penalties,

and interest receivable that will be collected by the SEC;
(c) securities registration, tender offer, merger, and other
fees collected and receivable from registrants, in excess of
amounts deposited in the SEC’s Reserve Fund; and (d) other
miscellaneous receivables and collections such as registrant
monies held temporarily until earned by the SEC. Additional
details are provided in Note 16, Disgorgement and Penalties.

At September 30, 2015, SEC entity and non-entity assets consisted of the following:
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental:
Fund Balance with Treasury:
SEC Funds
Registrant Deposits
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Custodial and Other Non-Entity Assets
Investments, Net:
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Investor Protection Fund
Accounts Receivable
Advances and Prepayments
Total Intragovernmental Assets
Cash and Other Monetary Assets:
SEC Funds
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Other Non-Entity Assets
Accounts Receivable, Net:
SEC Funds
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Custodial and Other Non-Entity Assets
Property and Equipment, Net (Note 7)
Advances and Prepayments
Total Assets

82

Entity

Non-Entity

Total

$	7,262,689
	—
	—
	—

$	—
35,050
321,000
29

$	7,262,689
35,050
321,000
29

	—
398,333
26
6,213

2,468,813
	—
	—
	—

2,468,813
398,333
26
6,213

7,667,261

2,824,892

10,492,153

25
	—
	—

	—
13
1

25
13
1

118,847
	—
	—
103,604
4

	—
738,705
2,470
	—
	—

118,847
738,705
2,470
103,604
4

$	7,889,741

$	3,566,081

$	11,455,822

At September 30, 2014, SEC entity and non-entity assets consisted of the following:
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental:
Fund Balance with Treasury:
SEC Funds
Registrant Deposits
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Custodial and Other Non-Entity Assets
Investments, Net:
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Investor Protection Fund
Accounts Receivable
Advances and Prepayments
Total Intragovernmental Assets
Cash and Other Monetary Assets:
SEC Funds
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Other Non-Entity Assets
Accounts Receivable, Net:
SEC Funds
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Custodial and Other Non-Entity Assets
Property and Equipment, Net (Note 7)
Advances and Prepayments
Total Assets

Entity

Non-Entity

Total

$	7,242,397
	—
	—
	—

$	—
34,766
933,447
	—

$	7,242,397
34,766
933,447
	—

	—
395,169
19
3,488

1,360,520
	—
	—
	—

1,360,520
395,169
19
3,488

7,641,073

2,328,733

9,969,806

21
	—
	—

	—
710
	—

21
710
	—

122,137
	—
	—
113,292
	—

	—
380,583
3,885
	—
	—

122,137
380,583
3,885
113,292
	—

$	7,876,523

$	2,713,911

$	10,590,434

83

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 3. Fund Balance with Treasury
The Fund Balance with Treasury by type of fund and Status of Fund Balance with Treasury as of September 30, 2015
and 2014 consists of the following:
FY 2015

FY 2014

$	7,174,713
87,976
356,079

$	7,109,249
133,148
968,213

Total Fund Balance with Treasury

$	7,618,768

$	8,210,610

Status of Fund Balance with Treasury:
Unobligated Balance:
Available
Unavailable
Obligated Balance not Yet Disbursed
Non-Budgetary Fund Balance with Treasury

$	38,854
109,218
619,338
6,851,358

$	60,875
128,869
557,376
7,463,490

Total Status of Fund Balance with Treasury

$	7,618,768

$	8,210,610

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Fund Balances:
General Funds
Special Funds
Other Funds

Special Funds consist of the Investor Protection Fund and
the Reserve Fund. Refer to Note 1.E, Fund Accounting
Structure, for additional information.
Other Funds consist of Fund Balance with Treasury held
in deposit funds.
Obligated and unobligated balances reported for the status
of Fund Balance with Treasury differ from the amounts
reported in the Statement of Budgetary Resources due to
the fact that budgetary balances are supported by amounts
other than Fund Balance with Treasury. These amounts
include Investor Protection Fund investments, uncollected
payments from Federal sources, and the impact of the
change in legal interpretation for leases. Refer to Note 14.C,
Other Budgetary Disclosures, Change in Legal Interpretation
for Lease Obligations.

Non-Budgetary Fund Balance with Treasury is comprised of
amounts in deposit funds and offsetting collections temporarily precluded from obligation in the SEC’s General Salaries
and Expenses Fund (X0100). Amounts temporarily precluded
from obligation represent offsetting collections in excess
of appropriated amounts related to securities transactions
fees, as well as securities registration, tender offer, merger,
and other fees from registrants (filing fees) collected in fiscal
years 2011 and prior.
There were no significant differences between the Fund
Balance reflected in the SEC’s financial statements and the
balance in the Treasury accounts.

NOTE 4. Cash and Other Monetary Assets
The SEC had a cash balance of $39 thousand as of September
30, 2015. The SEC receives collections throughout the year.
Any collections received after the U.S. Treasury Department

84

cut-off for deposit of checks are treated as deposits in transit
and recognized as Cash on the Balance Sheet. The SEC had
a cash balance of $731 thousand as of September 30, 2014.

NOTE 5. Investments
The SEC invests funds in overnight and short-term nonmarketable market-based Treasury securities. The SEC
records the value of its investments in Treasury securities at cost and amortizes any premium or discount on a
straight-line basis (S/L) through the maturity date of these

securities. Non-marketable market-based Treasury securities
are issued by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to Federal
agencies. They are not traded on any securities exchange
but mirror the prices of similar Treasury securities trading
in the Government securities market.

At September 30, 2015, investments consisted of the following:

Cost

Amortization
Method

Amortized
(Premium)
Discount

Interest
Receivable

Investment,
Net

Market Value
Disclosure

Non-Marketable Market-Based Securities
Disgorgement and Penalties
Investor Protection Fund – Entity

$	2,468,313
401,387

S/L
S/L

$	500
(4,790)

$	—
1,736

$	2,468,813
398,333

$	2,469,201
396,843

Total

$	2,869,700

$	(4,290)

$	1,736

$	2,867,146

$	2,866,044

Cost

Amortization
Method

Amortized
(Premium)
Discount

Interest
Receivable

Investment,
Net

Market Value
Disclosure

Non-Marketable Market-Based Securities
Disgorgement and Penalties
Investor Protection Fund – Entity

$	1,365,090
395,124

S/L
S/L

$	(5,331)
(196)

$	761
241

$	1,360,520
395,169

$	1,360,071
394,978

Total

$	1,760,214

$	(5,527)

$	1,002

$	1,755,689

$	1,755,049

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

At September 30, 2014, investments consisted of the following:

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental Investments
in Treasury Securities
The Federal Government does not set aside assets to pay
future benefits or other expenditures associated with the
investment by Federal agencies in non-marketable Federal
securities. The balances underlying these investments are
deposited in the U.S. Treasury, which uses the cash for
general Government purposes. Treasury securities are
issued to the SEC as evidence of these balances. Treasury
securities are an asset of the SEC and a liability of the U.S.
Treasury. Because the SEC and the U.S. Treasury are both
components of the Government, these assets and liabilities
offset each other from the standpoint of the Government
as a whole. For this reason, the investments presented by
the SEC do not represent an asset or a liability in the U.S.
Government-wide financial statements.

Treasury securities provide the SEC with authority to draw
upon the U.S. Treasury to make future payments from these
accounts. When the SEC requires redemption of these
securities to make expenditures, the Government finances
those expenditures out of accumulated cash balances, by
raising taxes or other receipts, by borrowing from the public
or repaying less debt, or by curtailing other expenditures.
This is the same manner in which the Government finances
all expenditures.

85

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 6. Accounts Receivable, Net
At September 30, 2015, accounts receivable consisted of the following:
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Gross Receivables

Allowance

Net Receivables

$	26

$	—

$	26

$	118,517

$	—

$	118,517

330

	—

330

3,256,097
4,080
2,842

2,517,392
2,278
2,174

738,705
1,802
668

$	3,381,892

$	2,521,844

$	860,048

Gross Receivables

Allowance

Net Receivables

$	19

$	—

$	19

$	121,731

$	—

$	121,731

406

	—

406

2,327,142
6,013
2,181

1,946,559
2,261
2,048

380,583
3,752
133

$	2,457,492

$	1,950,868

$	506,624

Intragovernmental Entity Accounts Receivable:
Reimbursable Activity
Entity Accounts Receivable:
Securities Transaction Fees
Other
Non-Entity Accounts Receivable:
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Filing Fees
Other
Total Accounts Receivable

At September 30, 2014, accounts receivable consisted of the following:
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental Entity Accounts Receivable:
Reimbursable Activity
Entity Accounts Receivable:
Securities Transaction Fees
Other
Non-Entity Accounts Receivable:
Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Filing Fees
Other
Total Accounts Receivable

Refer to Note 1.I, Accounts Receivable and Allowance
for Uncollectible Accounts for methods used to estimate
allowances. The SEC estimates that accumulated interest
on accounts receivable considered to be uncollectible is
$2.2 million and $2.0 million, respectively, as of September 30,
2015 and 2014. This estimate does not include interest
accumulated on debts written off or officially waived.
As of September 30, 2015 and 2014, the balances include
disgorgement and penalty accounts receivable, net of
allowance, of $499.6 million and $223.2 million, respectively,
designated as payable to the U.S. Treasury General Fund

86

per court order. As discussed in Note 1.L, Liabilities, these
receivables, their offsetting liabilities, and the associated
revenues, are classified as custodial.
As discussed in Note 1.I, Accounts Receivable and Allowance
for Uncollectible Accounts, pursuant to Section 991(e) of the
Dodd-Frank Act, accounts receivable for securities registration,
tender offer, merger, and other fees from registrants in excess
of the amounts deposited into the Reserve Fund are held on
behalf of the U.S. Treasury and are transferred to the U.S.
Treasury General Fund upon collection.

NOTE 7. Property and Equipment, Net
At September 30, 2015, property and equipment consisted of the following:

Class of Property
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Furniture and Equipment
Software
Leasehold Improvements

Depreciation/
Amortization
Method

Capitalization
Threshold
for Individual
Purchases

Capitalization
Threshold
for Bulk
Purchases

S/L
S/L
S/L

$	50
300
300

$	300
300
	N/A

Service
Life
(Years)

Acquisition
Cost

Accumulated
Depreciation/
Amortization

Book
Value

3-5
3-5
10

$	133,580
196,353
101,254

$	112,095
133,920
81,568

$	21,485
62,433
19,686

$	431,187

$	327,583

$	103,604

Service
Life
(Years)

Acquisition
Cost

Accumulated
Depreciation/
Amortization

Book
Value

3-5
3-5
10

$	135,035
157,583
100,362

$	92,965
113,155
73,568

$	42,070
44,428
26,794

$	392,980

$	279,688

$	113,292

Total

At September 30, 2014, property and equipment consisted of the following:

Class of Property
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Furniture and Equipment
Software
Leasehold Improvements

Depreciation/
Amortization
Method

Capitalization
Threshold
for Individual
Purchases

Capitalization
Threshold
for Bulk
Purchases

S/L
S/L
S/L

$	50
300
300

$	50
300

Total

In FY 2015, the capitalization threshold for bulk purchases
of Furniture and Equipment was changed from $50,000 to
$300,000. Bulk purchases are acquisitions of a quantity of

	N/A

similar items that individually cost less than $50,000 but
collectively exceed the designated bulk purchase threshold
of $300,000.

87

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 8. Liabilities Covered and Not Covered by Budgetary Resources
The SEC recognizes liabilities that are covered by budgetary
resources, liabilities that are not covered by budgetary
resources, and liabilities that do not require the use of
budgetary resources.

in the budget, annual leave is required to be recognized and
funded in the fiscal year when the annual leave is either used
or paid out to a separating employee, not when it is earned.
As a result of this timing difference, accrued annual leave
liability is classified as a liability “not covered by budgetary
resources” as of the financial statement date.

Liabilities that are covered by budgetary resources are
liabilities incurred for which budgetary resources are available to the SEC during the reporting period without further
Congressional action.

Liabilities that do not require the use of budgetary resources
include registrant monies held temporarily until earned by
the SEC and offsetting liabilities that correspond to nonentity assets that the SEC holds, such as collections and
receivables from disgorgements and penalties, as discussed
in Note 1.L, Liabilities. Liabilities that do not require the use
of budgetary resources are covered by assets that do not
represent budgetary resources to the SEC.

The SEC also recognizes liabilities not covered by budgetary
resources. Budgetary and financial statement reporting
requirements sometimes differ on the timing for the required
recognition of an expense. For example, in the financial
statements, annual leave expense must be accrued in the
reporting period when the annual leave is earned. However,
At September 30, 2015, liabilities consisted of the following:

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental:
Accounts Payable
Other Intragovernmental Liabilities
Accrued Employee Benefits
Unfunded FECA and Unemployment Liability
Custodial Liability
Liability for Non-Entity Assets

Liabilities
Covered by
Budgetary
Resources

Liabilities
Not Covered by
Budgetary
Resources

Liabilities
Not Requiring
Budgetary
Resources

Total

$	3,027

$	—

$	—

$	3,027

5,068
	—
	—
	—

	—
1,182
	—
	—

	—
	—
500,238
1,802

5,068
1,182
500,238
1,802

Subtotal – Other Intragovernmental Liabilities

5,068

1,182

502,040

508,290

Total Intragovernmental

8,095

1,182

502,040

511,317

Accounts Payable
Actuarial FECA Liability
Other Liabilities
Accrued Payroll and Benefits
Accrued Leave
Registrant Deposits
Liability for Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Contingent Liabilities (Note 10)
Other Accrued Liabilities
Recognition of Lease Liability (Note 9)
Other
Subtotal – Other Liabilities
Total Liabilities

88

44,380

	—

	—

44,380

	—

6,054

	—

6,054

58,165
	—
	—
	—
	—

	—
67,635
	—
	—
14,555

	—
	—
35,050
3,028,960
	—

58,165
67,635
35,050
3,028,960
14,555

	—
25

6,440
	—

	—
31

6,440
56

58,190

88,630

3,064,041

3,210,861

$	110,665

$	95,866

$	3,566,081

$	3,772,612

Other Liabilities (Intragovernmental and Governmental)
totaled $3,719 million as of September 30, 2015, of which
all but $89 million is current. The non-current portion of
Other Liabilities includes the appropriate portions of Accrued

Employee Benefits, Unfunded FECA and Unemployment
Liability, Accrued Leave, Contingent Liabilities, and Lease
Liability. Current liabilities not covered by budgetary resources
totaled $446 thousand as of September 30, 2015.

At September 30, 2014, liabilities consisted of the following:

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Intragovernmental:
Accounts Payable
Other Intragovernmental Liabilities
Accrued Employee Benefits
Unfunded FECA and Unemployment Liability
Custodial Liability
Liability for Non-Entity Assets

Liabilities
Covered by
Budgetary
Resources

Accounts Payable
Actuarial FECA Liability
Other Liabilities
Accrued Payroll and Benefits
Accrued Leave
Registrant Deposits
Liability for Disgorgement and Penalties (Note 16)
Contingent Liabilities (Note 10)
Other Accrued Liabilities
Recognition of Lease Liability (Note 9)
Other
Subtotal – Other Liabilities
Total Liabilities

Liabilities
Not Requiring
Budgetary
Resources

Total

$	7,249

$	—

$	—

$	7,249

4,017
	—
	—
	—

	—
1,286
	—
	—

	—
	—
223,363
3,752

4,017
1,286
223,363
3,752

4,017

1,286

227,115

232,418

11,266

1,286

227,115

239,667

Subtotal – Other Intragovernmental Liabilities
Total Intragovernmental

Liabilities
Not Covered by
Budgetary
Resources

64,830

	—

	—

64,830

	—

6,821

	—

6,821

37,931
	—
	—
	—
	—

	—
58,498
	—
	—
	—

	—
	—
34,766
2,451,397
	—

37,931
58,498
34,766
2,451,397
	—

	—
21

5,176
	—

	—
633

5,176
654

37,952

63,674

2,486,796

2,588,422

$	114,048

$	71,781

$	2,713,911

$	2,899,740

Other Liabilities (Intragovernmental and Governmental)
totaled $2,821 million as of September 30, 2014, of which all
but $64 million was current. The non-current portion of Other
Liabilities includes the appropriate portions of the Unfunded

FECA and Unemployment Liability, Accrued Leave, and
Lease Liability. Current liabilities not covered by budgetary
resources totaled $652 thousand as of September 30, 2014.

89

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 9. Leases
Operating Leases
At September 30, 2015, the SEC leased office space
at 15 locations under operating lease agreements that
expire between FY 2015 and FY 2029. The SEC paid
$97.5 million and $95.3 million for rent for the years ended
September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
The following table details expected future lease payments
for (a) the full term of all non-cancelable leases with terms
of more than one year and (b) the non-cancelable portion
of all cancelable commercial leases with terms of more
than one year. This listing excludes leases with the General
Services Administration (GSA). “Non-cancelable” leases
are leases for which the lease agreements do not provide
an option for the lessee to cancel the lease prior to the
end of the lease term. The total expected future lease
payments reflect an estimate of base rent and contractually required costs.
Under existing commitments, expected future lease
payments through FY 2021 and thereafter are as follows:
Fiscal Year
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Non-Cancelable Expected
Future Lease Payments

2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021 and thereafter

$	82,093
78,963
79,247
65,594
35,318
18,129

Total

$	359,344

As discussed in Note 14.C, Other Budgetary Disclosures,
$286 million of the above $359.3 million are unfunded
obligations.

Expense Recognition of “Rent Holiday”
In FY 2005, the SEC moved into temporary office space
in New York due to renovations in the new leased office
space. This temporary space was provided to the SEC
for only the lessor’s operating costs. As a result, the SEC
accrued $8 million of rent expense discount, which is being
amortized on a straight-line basis over the 15 year life of
the new lease. Amortization of the discount recognized

90

in FY 2015 and FY 2014 totaled $533 thousand in each
period, respectively. The unamortized balance of this location’s discount totaled $2.9 million and $3.5 million at
September 30, 2015 and 2014 respectively.
In November 2011, the SEC occupied leased office space
in Atlanta, Georgia. The lease term is 15 years and includes
a one year rent payment holiday. The SEC expects to
amortize $1.4 million of rent expense discount over the noncancelable term of the lease which is 10 years. Amortization
of the discount as an adjustment of rent payments began
in November 2012. The unamortized balance of this location’s discount totaled $863 thousand and $1 million at
September 30, 2015 and 2014 respectively.
In December 2013, the SEC executed an occupancy agreement with GSA to renew leased office space in Miami, Florida.
The occupancy agreement includes a five month rent payment
holiday. The SEC expects to amortize $835 thousand of rent
expense discount over the full term of the lease which is
5 years and 5 months. The unamortized balance of this location’s discount totaled $552 thousand and $706 thousand
at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.
In September 2014, the SEC executed an occupancy
agreement with GSA to lease office space in Los
Angeles, California. The occupancy agreement includes
a 16 month rent payment holiday. The SEC expects to
amortize $3.2 million of rent expense discount over the
non-cancelable term of the lease which is 10 years. As of
September 30, 2015, the SEC has accumulated $2.4 million
in rent expense discount for this site. The unamortized
balance of this location’s discount totaled $2.1 million at
September 30, 2015.
The accrual and amortization of rent holiday discounts
allow the rent expense to be allocated equally to each
period of the lease term. When a rent holiday occurs at
the beginning of the lease term, a rent expense is accrued,
even though no payment is due. This accrued expense is
recognized as an unfunded liability because funding will
not be provided until the future period in which payment is
due. Refer to Note 8, Liabilities Covered and Not Covered
by Budgetary Resources, for more information.

Recognition of Rent Holiday Discounts as of September 30,
2015 (amounts in thousands)
Location
New York, New York
Atlanta, Georgia
Miami, Florida
Los Angeles, California
Total (See Note 8)

Total
Discount

Amortized
Discount

Accrued Lease
Liability

7,995
1,420
835
2,415

5,063
557
283
322

2,932
863
552
2,093

12,665

6,225

6,440

Recognition of Rent Holiday Discounts as of September 30,
2014 (amounts in thousands)
Location
New York, New York
Atlanta, Georgia
Miami, Florida
Total (See Note 8)

Total
Discount

Amortized
Discount

Accrued Lease
Liability

7,995
1,420
835

4,530
415
129

3,465
1,005
706

10,250

5,074

5,176

NOTE 10. Commitments and Contingencies
A. Commitments: Securities Investor
Protection Act
The Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970 (SIPA),
as amended, created the Securities Investor Protection
Corporation (SIPC) to restore funds and securities to investors and to protect the securities markets from disruption following the failure of broker-dealers. Generally,
if a brokerage firm is not able to meet its obligations to
customers, then customers’ cash and securities held by
the brokerage firm are returned to customers on a pro rata
basis. If sufficient funds are not available at the firm to satisfy
customer claims, the reserve funds of SIPC are used to
supplement the distribution, up to a ceiling of $500,000 per
customer, including a maximum of $250,000 for cash claims.
SIPA authorizes SIPC to create a fund to maintain all monies
received and disbursed by SIPC. SIPA gives SIPC the
authority to borrow up to $2.5 billion from the SEC in the
event that the SIPC Fund is or may appear insufficient for
purposes of SIPA. To borrow the funds, SIPC must file with
the SEC a statement of the uses of such a loan and a repayment plan, and then the SEC must certify to the Secretary
of the Treasury that the loan is necessary to protect brokerdealer customers and maintain confidence in the securities
markets and that the repayment plan provides as reasonable assurance of prompt repayment as may be feasible
under the circumstances. The Treasury would make these
funds available to the SEC through the purchase of notes
or other obligating instruments issued by the SEC. Such
notes or other obligating instruments would bear interest
at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury. As of

September 30, 2015, the SEC had not loaned any funds
to the SIPC, and there are no outstanding notes or other
obligating instruments issued by the SEC.
Based on the estimated costs to complete ongoing customer
protection proceedings, the current size of the SIPC Fund
supplemented by SIPC’s ongoing assessments on brokers is
expected to provide sufficient funds to cover acknowledged
customer claims. There are several broker-dealers that are
being liquidated under SIPA or that have been referred to
SIPC for liquidation that may result in additional customer
claims. In the event that the SIPC Fund is or may reasonably
appear to be insufficient for the purposes of SIPA, SIPC may
seek a loan from the SEC.

B. Commitments and Contingencies:
Investor Protection Fund
As mentioned in Note 1.E, Fund Accounting Structure,
the Investor Protection Fund is used to pay awards to
whistleblowers if they voluntarily provide original information
to the SEC and meet other conditions. The legislation allows
whistleblowers to receive between 10 and 30 percent of the
monetary sanctions collected in the covered action or in a
related action, with the actual percentage being determined
at the discretion of the SEC using criteria provided in the
legislation and the related rules to implement the legislation
adopted by the SEC.
A Preliminary Determination is a first assessment, made by
the Claims Review Staff appointed by the Director of the
Division of Enforcement, as to whether the claim should

91

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

be allowed or denied and, if allowed, what the proposed
award percentage amount should be. A contingent liability
is recognized when (a) a positive Preliminary Determination
has been made by the Claims Review Staff, (b) collection
has been made, and (c) the percentage to be paid can be
reasonably estimated. A potential liability is disclosed but
not recognized when a positive Preliminary Determination
is expected and a collection has been received. A liability is
recognized when a positive Proposed Final Determination has
been issued by the Claims Review Staff and collection has
been received. In all cases, the whistleblower award is not
paid until amounts have been collected, a final order is issued
by the Commission and the appeal rights of all claimants on
the matter have been exhausted.
The SEC recognized a contingent liability for potential
whistleblower awards for the period ended September 30,
2015 of $13.6 million. The SEC did not recognize a contingent
liability for potential whistleblower award for the period ended
September 30, 2014.
As of September 30, 2015, potential whistleblower payments
for cases where positive Preliminary Determinations have
not been made, but are reasonably possible, are estimated
to range from $224.8 million to $674.4 million given the
amount of current collections on those cases. Such claims
do not meet the criteria for recognition as contingent liabilities
in FY 2015. As of September 30, 2015, the upper end of
the range of reasonably possible liabilities exceeds the net
asset balance of the Investor Protection Fund. In the event
that whistleblower award payments reduce the Investor
Protection Fund net asset balance below $300,000,000, the
Investor Protection Fund will be replenished as described in
the Note 1.S, Investor Protection Fund.

92

As of September 30, 2014, potential whistleblower payments
that were reasonably possible, but did not meet the criteria for
recognition as contingent liabilities, were estimated to range
from $25.7 million to $77.1 million.

C. Other Commitments
In addition to future lease commitments discussed in Note 9,
Leases, the SEC is obligated for the purchase of goods and
services that have been ordered, but not received. As of
September 30, 2015 net obligations for all of the SEC’s
activities were $905.8 million, of which $110.6 million was
delivered and unpaid. As of September 30, 2014, net obligations for all of SEC’s activities were $915.4 million, of which
$114.0 million was delivered and unpaid.

D. Other Contingencies
The SEC is party to various routine administrative proceedings, legal actions, and claims brought against it, including
threatened or pending litigation involving labor relations
claims, some of which may ultimately result in settlements or
decisions against the Federal Government. The SEC recognizes contingent liabilities when a past event or exchange
transaction has occurred, a future outflow or other sacrifice
of resources is probable, and the future outflow or sacrifice
of resources is measurable. As of September 30, 2015, the
SEC recognized $990 thousand in other contingent liabilities.
As of September 30, 2014, no contingent liabilities of this
type were recognized.

NOTE 11. Funds from Dedicated Collections
The SEC’s funds from dedicated collections consist of
transactions and balances recorded in its Salaries and
Expenses Fund, Investor Protection Fund, and Reserve

Fund. See Note 1.E.1, Funds from Dedicated Collections.
Also see Note 5, Investments, for additional information
about intragovernmental investments in Treasury securities.

For FY 2015, the assets, liabilities, net position, and net income from operations relating to funds from dedicated collections
consisted of the following:
Salaries &
Expenses

Investor
Protection
Fund

Reserve
Fund

Eliminations

Total Funds
From Dedicated
Collections

ASSETS
Fund Balance with Treasury
Cash and Other Monetary Assets
Investments, Net
Accounts Receivable, Net
Property and Equipment, Net
Advances and Prepayments

$	7,174,713
25
	—
118,873
60,797
6,217

$	2,360
	—
398,333
	—
	—
	—

$	85,616
	—
	—
	—
42,807
	—

$	—
	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	7,262,689
25
398,333
118,873
103,604
6,217

Total Assets

$	7,360,625

$	400,693

$	128,423

$	—

$	7,889,741

LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable
FECA and Unemployment Liability
Accrued Payroll and Benefits
Accrued Leave
Contingent Liabilities
Other Accrued Liabilities

$	41,093
7,236
63,233
67,635
990
6,465

$	17
	—
	—
	—
13,565
	—

$6,297
	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	—
	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	47,407
7,236
63,233
67,635
14,555
6,465

186,652

13,582

6,297

	—

206,531

NET POSITION
Cumulative Results of Operations
Total Net Position
Total Liabilities and Net Position

7,173,973
7,173,973
$	7,360,625

387,111
387,111
$	400,693

122,126
122,126
$	128,423

	—
	—
$	—

7,683,210
7,683,210
$	7,889,741

Statement of Net Cost for the year ended September 30, 2015
Gross Program Costs
Less Earned Revenues Not Attributable to Program Costs
Net (Income) Cost from Operations

$	1,514,489
1,489,015
$	25,474

$	28,416
	—
$	28,416

$	40,718
50,000
$	(9,282)

$	(19)
	(19)
$	—

$	1,583,604
1,538,996
$44,608

$	7,161,234

$	414,660

$	112,844

$	—

$	7,688,738

5,705
	—

	—
867

	—
	—

	—
	—

5,705
867

1,192
31,316
	(25,474)

	—
	—
	(28,416)

	—
	—
9,282

	—
	—
	—

1,192
31,316
	(44,608)

12,739
7,173,973

	(27,549)
387,111

9,282
122,126

	—
	—

	(5,528)
7,683,210

8,087
	(2,382)
	(5,705)
	—
$	7,173,973

	—
	—
	—
	—
$	387,111

	—
	—
	—
	—
$	122,126

	—
	—
	—
	—
$	—

8,087
	(2,382)
	(5,705)
	—
$	7,683,210

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2015

Total Liabilities

Statement of Changes in Net Position for the year ended September 30, 2015

Cumulative Results of Operations:
Net Position, Beginning of Period

Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Used
Non-Exchange Revenue

Other Financing Sources:
Transfers In/Out Without Reimbursement
Imputed Financing
Net Income (Cost) from Operations
Net Change
Cumulative Results of Operations
Unexpended Appropriations:
Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Received
Other Adjustments (Recissions, etc.)
Appropriations Used
Total Unexpended Appropriations
Net Position, End of Period

93

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

For FY 2014, the assets, liabilities, net position, and net income from operations relating to funds from dedicated collections
consisted of the following:

Salaries &
Expenses

Investor
Protection
Fund

Reserve
Fund

Eliminations

Total Funds
From Dedicated
Collections

ASSETS
Fund Balance with Treasury
Cash and Other Monetary Assets
Investments, Net
Accounts Receivable, Net
Property and Equipment, Net
Advances and Prepayments

$	7,108,486
21
	—
122,156
82,635
3,488

$	42,627
	—
395,169
	—
	—
	—

$	90,521
	—
	—
	—
29,465
	—

$	—
	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	7,241,634
21
395,169
122,156
112,100
3,488

Total Assets

$	7,316,786

$	437,796

$	119,986

$	—

$	7,874,568

LIABILITIES
Accounts Payable
FECA and Unemployment Liability
Accrued Payroll and Benefits
Accrued Leave
Contingent Liabilities
Other Accrued Liabilities

$	41,801
8,107
41,948
58,498
	—
5,198

$	23,136
	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	7,142
	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	—
	—
	—
	—
	—
	—

$	72,079
8,107
41,948
58,498
	—
5,198

155,552

23,136

7,142

	—

185,830

NET POSITION
Cumulative Results of Operations
Total Net Position
Total Liabilities and Net Position

7,161,234
7,161,234
$	7,316,786

414,660
414,660
$	437,796

112,844
112,844
$	119,986

	—
	—
$	—

7,688,738
7,688,738
$	7,874,568

Statement of Net Cost for the year ended September 30, 2014
Gross Program Costs
Less Earned Revenues Not Attributable to Program Costs
Net (Income) Cost from Operations

$	1,391,435
1,326,566
$	64,869

$	25,116
	—
$	25,116

$	23,642
50,000
$	(26,358)

$	(47)
(47)
$	—

$	1,440,146
1,376,519
$	63,627

$	7,127,534

$	439,197

$	86,486

$	—

$	7,653,217

59,013
	—

	—
579

	—
	—

	—
	—

59,013
579

	—
39,556
(64,869)

	—
	—
(25,116)

	—
	—
26,358

	—
	—
	—

	—
39,556
(63,627)

33,700
7,161,234

(24,537)
414,660

26,358
112,844

	—
	—

35,521
7,688,738

59,013
	—
(59,013)
	—
$	7,161,234

	—
	—
	—
	—
$	414,660

	—
	—
	—
	—
$	112,844

	—
	—
	—
	—
$	—

59,013
	—
(59,013)
	—
$	7,688,738

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Balance Sheet as of September 30, 2014

Total Liabilities

Statement of Changes in Net Position for the year ended September 30, 2014

Cumulative Results of Operations:
Net Position, Beginning of Period

Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Used
Non-Exchange Revenue

Other Financing Sources:
Transfers In/Out Without Reimbursement
Imputed Financing
Net Income (Cost) from Operations
Net Change
Cumulative Results of Operations
Unexpended Appropriations:
Budgetary Financing Sources:
Appropriations Received
Other Adjustments (Recissions, etc.)
Appropriations Used
Total Unexpended Appropriations
Net Position, End of Period

94

NOTE 12. Intragovernmental Costs and Exchange Revenue
The Statement of Net Cost presents the SEC’s results
of operations for its major programs. The SEC assigns
all costs incurred to ten programs, consistent with its
budget submissions. The full cost of the SEC’s programs
is the sum of (1) the costs of resources directly or indirectly
consumed by those programs, and (2) the costs of identifiable supporting services provided by other responsibility
segments within the agency. Typical examples of indirect
costs include costs of general administrative services,
technical support, security, rent, and operating and maintenance costs for buildings, equipment, and utilities. The
SEC allocates support costs to its programs using activitybased cost accounting.

Intragovernmental costs arise from purchases of goods and
services from other components of the Federal Government.
In contrast, public costs are those which arise from the
purchase of goods and services from non-Federal entities.
These exchange revenues are a means to recover all or most
of the total cost of all SEC programs and to deposit excess
collections from registrants to the Treasury General Fund.
As a result, they offset the total costs of the organization
in the Statement of Net Cost, rather than individual SEC
programs. This presentation is consistent with the financial
accounting concepts described in Statement of Federal
Financial Accounting Concepts 2, Entity and Display.

The Statements of Net Cost, for the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014, with a breakout of intragovernmental
and public costs is presented below.
FY 2015
Intragovernmental
Gross Cost

Gross Cost
with the Public

Total

SEC Programs:
Enforcement
Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Corporation Finance
Trading and Markets
Investment Management
Economic and Risk Analysis
General Counsel
Other Program Offices
Agency Direction and Administrative Support
Inspector General

$	82,914
54,339
26,955
14,434
10,446
7,444
8,418
11,603
35,370
2,295

$	466,482
271,406
129,372
71,785
51,361
56,257
41,826
58,323
172,964
9,627

$	549,396
325,745
156,327
86,219
61,807
63,701
50,244
69,926
208,334
11,922

Total Program Costs

$	254,218

$	1,329,403

1,583,621

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Less: Exchange Revenues
Securities Transaction Fees
Securities Registration, Tender Offer, and Merger Fees
Other

1,488,699
581,209
327

Total Exchange Revenues

2,070,235

Net (Income) Cost from Operations

$	(486,614)

95

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

FY 2014
Intragovernmental
Gross Cost

Gross Cost
with the Public

Total

SEC Programs:
Enforcement
Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Corporation Finance
Trading and Markets
Investment Management
Economic and Risk Analysis
General Counsel
Other Program Offices
Agency Direction and Administrative Support
Inspector General

$	81,429
47,103
24,456
13,249
9,585
7,250
7,160
10,337
38,884
1,465

$	405,618
234,635
121,820
65,997
47,743
36,116
35,666
51,493
193,691
7,299

$	487,047
281,738
146,276
79,246
57,328
43,366
42,826
61,830
232,575
8,764

Total Program Costs

$	240,918

$	1,200,078

1,440,996

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Less: Exchange Revenues
Securities Transaction Fees
Securities Registration, Tender Offer, and Merger Fees
Other
Total Exchange Revenues
Net (Income) Cost from Operations

Intragovernmental exchange revenue was $298 thousand
for the year ended September 30, 2015. Intragovernmental

1,326,423
579,708
127
1,906,258
$	(465,262)

exchange revenue was $96 thousand for the year ended
September 30, 2014.

NOTE 13. Imputed Financing
A portion of the retirement, health, and life insurance
benefits provided to SEC employees is funded by OPM.
In accordance with Federal accounting standards, the SEC
recognizes identified costs paid by OPM on behalf of the
SEC as an expense. The funding for this expense is reflected

96

as imputed financing on the Statement of Changes in Net
Position. Costs paid by OPM on behalf of the SEC were
$31.3 million and $39.6 million in FY 2015 and FY 2014,
respectively.

NOTE 14. Status of Budgetary Resources
A. Apportionment Categories of Obligations Incurred
Category A funds are those amounts that are subject to
quarterly apportionment by OMB, meaning that a portion
of the annual appropriation is not available to the agency
until apportioned each quarter. Category B funds represent
budgetary resources distributed by a specified time period,
activity, project, object, or a combination of these categories.
The SEC’s Category B funds represent amounts apportioned

at the beginning of the fiscal year for the SEC’s reimbursable
and Investor Protection Fund activities. The SEC’s Reserve
Fund is exempt from apportionment. For additional information, see Note 1.E, Fund Accounting Structure, and Note 1.Q,
Budgets and Budgetary Accounting. For the years ended
September 30, 2015 and 2014, the SEC incurred obligations
against Category A, Category B, and Exempt funds as follows:

Obligations Incurred
FY 2015

FY 2014

$	1,481,665
14,851
53,452

$	1,335,969
25,116
65,605

Total Direct Obligations
Reimbursable Obligations
Category B

1,549,968

1,426,690

303

179

Total Obligations Incurred

$	1,550,271

$	1,426,869

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Direct Obligations
Category A
Category B — Investor Protection Fund
Exempt From Apportionment — Reserve Fund

In addition, the amounts of budgetary resources obligated for undelivered orders include $795.2 million and $801.8 million
at September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

B. Explanation of Differences between the Statement of
Budgetary Resources and the Budget of the U.S. Government
A comparison between the FY 2015 SBR and the
actual FY 2015 data in the President’s budget cannot
be presented, as the FY 2017 President’s budget which
will contain FY 2015 actual data is not yet available. The

(DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

Combined Statement of Budgetary Resources
FY 2014 Ending Balance: Comptroller General Decision B 322160,
Recording of Obligation for Multiple Year Contract

OMB’s application of cumulative unobligated balances used to
offset the remaining deficiency
Budget of the U.S. Government for FY 2015

The differences between the FY 2014 SBR and the prior
year column in the FY 2016 Budget of the U.S. Government
exist because certain data elements are reported on the

comparison will be presented in next year’s financial statements. The comparison as of September 30, 2014 is
presented below:

Budgetary
Resources

Obligations
Incurred

Distributed
Offsetting
Receipts

$	 1,551

$	 1,427

$	

358

	—

	—

	—

(74)

	—

	—

	—

$	 1,835

$	 1,427

$	

$	

(2)

(2)

Outlays,
Net
$	

40

40

SBR differently than those same data elements are reported
in the Budget.

97

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

The data elements reported differently are those used
to report the SEC’s recording of obligations in FY 2011
to reflect the impact of Comptroller General Decision B
322160, Securities and Exchange Commission – Recording
of Obligation for Multiple-Year Contract and the subsequent
adjustment and liquidation of those obligations. In consultation with OMB, in FY 2011 the SEC recognized obligations
for leases entered into in FY 2010 and prior. The recognition
of these lease obligations resulted in an unfunded obligation
(deficiency) of $778 million.

•	 In FY 2011, OMB used the year-end unobligated
balance ($47 million) as an offset to the unfunded
deficiency. The increases in the unobligated balance
amounts at the end of FY 2012 and FY 2013 (increases
of the end-of-year unobligated balance of $55 million
and $6 million, respectively) also were used to offset
the unfunded deficiency. In FY 2014, the change in
the end-of-year unobligated balance was a decrease
(-$34 million), which resulted in a reduction in the endof-year unfunded obligated balance brought forward.

In the Budget, the unfunded obligation is not included in the
beginning of the year unobligated balance brought forward,
but instead is reported in a separate schedule of the SEC’s
Budget titled “Unfunded Deficiencies.”

•	 A portion of the activity in the “Unfunded Deficiencies”
schedule is also reflected in the Budgetary Resources
section of the Salaries and Expense Account in
the FY 2016 Budget of the U.S. Government. The
$49 million in “New budget authority used to liquidate deficiencies” in the “Unfunded Deficiencies”
is equal to the SEC funding of $83 million used to
liquidate the lease obligations less the $34 million
end-of year unobligated balance for FY 2014 that is
offsetting the unfunded obligations in the “Unfunded
Deficiencies” schedule.

A detailed reconciliation of the data elements follows:
•	 Based on an agreement with OMB, the SEC funds the
deficiency over time as budgetary resources become
available for current year lease operations and as the
prior year unfunded lease obligation amounts are
recovered. At the end of FY 2014, the SEC’s SBR
included $358 million in remaining unfunded obligations after the SEC funded $83 million for current
year lease operations ((FY 2012 Beginning Balance
of $778 million) - (FY 2012 funding of the deficiency
of $113 million) - (FY 2012 downward adjustments
of $142 million) - (FY 2013 funding of the deficiency
of $80 million) - (FY 2013 downward adjustments
of $2 million) - (FY 2014 funding of the deficiency of
$83 million) = FY 2014 Ending Balance of $358 million).
The SEC SBR for FY 2015 presents this balance as
part of the beginning of the year unobligated balance
brought forward.
•	 In addition to the budgetary resources and recovered
prior year unfunded lease obligation amounts, OMB
used each year’s unobligated balance to offset the
unfunded deficiency, beginning in FY 2011. As a result,
the FY 2014 “Unfunded Deficiencies” schedule in the
FY 2016 Budget of the U.S. Government reported
$284 million in remaining unfunded obligations, while the
SEC reported $358 million. The $74 million cumulative
difference reflects the use of the year-end unobligated
balances by OMB to offset the unfunded deficiency.

98

C. Other Budgetary Disclosures
General Provisions of Appropriation
The SEC’s annual Appropriations Act contains general
provisions that limit the amount that can be obligated for
international conferences, International Organization of
Securities Commission (IOSCO) dues, and representation
expenses. The Act also requires the SEC to fund its Office
of Inspector General with a minimum of $9,239,000 and
the Division of Economic and Risk Analysis with a minimum
of $56,613,000 in new budget authority.
The SEC’s annual Appropriations Act for FY 2014
temporarily rescinded $25 million in appropriations
recognized in the SEC’s Reserve Fund in FY 2014. This
rescission ended on September 30, 2014, leaving that
$25 million available starting in FY 2015. The SEC’s
FY 2015 appropriation bill included a provision that
rescinds $25 million in appropriations recognized in the
SEC’s Reserve Fund. Refer to Note 1.E, Fund Accounting
Structure, “Reserve Fund,” for more information.

The SEC returned $764 thousand to the Treasury General
Fund as a result of the cancellation of the 2009/2010 two
year appropriation cancelled in FY 2015.

Change in Legal Interpretation for Lease Obligations
The SEC was granted independent leasing authority in
1990. Based on a legal review of its statutory authority at the
time, the SEC adopted a policy of obligating only the annual
portion of lease payments due each year. On October 3,
2011, the Government Accountability Office (GAO) issued
a decision that this longstanding practice of recording lease
obligations only on an annual basis violated the recording
statute, 31 U.S.C. sect. 1501(a)(1). Specifically, the GAO’s
decision was that the SEC lacks statutory authority to
obligate an amount less than the Government’s total obligation. If the SEC lacks sufficient budget authority to cover
this obligation, the SEC should report a violation of the
Antideficiency Act (ADA).
The SEC recorded obligations in the same manner for all its
leasing actions between the time the agency was granted
independent leasing authority in 1990 and 2010. Further,

the agency did not have sufficient remaining unobligated
funds in the years in which the various leases were entered
to cover the full obligations associated with those leases.
As a result, the agency recorded unfunded obligations
totaling $778 million for leases executed between 1990
and 2010 in FY 2011. The SEC appropriately obligated the
Government’s total financial responsibility for lease actions
that were executed in FY 2011 and thereafter.
Unfunded lease obligations totaled $286 million and
$358 million as of September 30, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The change in unfunded obligations is due to the SEC
funding previously unfunded obligations totaling $72 million.
Accrual accounting requires expenses to be recognized in
the period in which the expenses are incurred. Because
future lease expenses are not an expense of the current
fiscal year, they are not reported as expenses or liabilities
in the current fiscal year. See Note 9, Leases, for additional
information.
See Note 10.A, Commitments: Securities Investor Protection
Act, for information on the SEC’s borrowing authority.

99

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 15. Reconciliation of Net Cost of Operations to Budget
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014:
FY 2015

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

RESOURCES USED TO FINANCE ACTIVITIES:
Budgetary Resources Obligated:
Obligations Incurred (Note 14)
Less: Spending Authority from Offsetting Collections, Recoveries, and
Downward Adjustments to Prior Year Unfunded Lease Obligations
Less: Reserve Fund Appropriations

FY 2014

$	1,550,271

$1,426,869

	(1,527,512)
	(50,000)

(1,325,984)
(50,000)

	(27,241)

50,885

31,316

39,556

4,075

90,441

3,470
(48,761)

(11,352)
(47,553)

Total Resources Used to Finance Items Not Part of the Net Cost of Operations

	(45,291)

(58,905)

Total Resources Used to Finance the Net Cost of Operations

	(41,216)

31,536

COMPONENTS OF NET COST OF OPERATIONS THAT WILL NOT REQUIRE OR GENERATE RESOURCES IN THE CURRENT PERIOD:
Components Requiring or Generating Resources in Future Periods:
Change in Accrued Leave Liability
Change in Revenue Receivables Not Generating Resources Until Collected
Change in Lease Liability
Change in Unfunded Liability

9,137
3,290
1,264
13,684

6,792
(35,509)
31
(356)

Total Components of Net Cost of Operations that will Require or Generate Resources in Future Periods

27,375

(29,042)

Components not Requiring or Generating Resources:
Depreciation and Amortization
Revaluation of Assets or Liabilities
Non-Entity Filing Fee Revenue, Net
Other Costs that will not Require or Generate Resources

58,275
174
	(531,192)
	(30)

60,596
537
(528,858)
(31)

Net Obligations
Other Resources:
Imputed Financing from Cost Absorbed by Others (Note 13)
Total Resources Used to Finance Activities
RESOURCES USED TO FINANCE ITEMS NOT PART OF THE NET COST OF OPERATIONS:
Change in Budgetary Resources Obligated for Goods, Services, and Benefits Ordered But Not Yet Provided
Resources that Finance the Acquisition of Assets Capitalized on the Balance Sheet

Total Components of Net Cost of Operations that will not Require or Generate Resources in Future Periods

	(472,773)

(467,756)

Total Components of Net Cost of Operations that will not Require or Generate Resources in the Current Period

	(445,398)

(496,798)

Net (Income) Cost from Operations

$	(486,614)

$	(465,262)

Components of net cost of operations that will not require
or generate budgetary resources represent required timing
differences in the Statement of Net Cost and the Statement
of Budgetary Resources.
For example, as noted in Note 1.L, Liabilities, annual leave
that is earned but not either taken or paid out to separating
employees by the end of the fiscal year is required to be
reported as an expense in the financial statements in the
year when it is earned, but it is required to be funded by
budgetary resources in the future fiscal year when it is either
used or paid out to separating employees. In the reconciliation above, it is reported as a component of net cost that
100

will not require resources in the current period. Another
example is depreciation expense. In budgetary reporting,
the entire cost of a depreciable asset is recognized in the
period when the asset is purchased. However, in financial statement reporting, accrual accounting requires the
cost of such assets to be allocated among the reporting
periods that represent the estimated useful life of the asset.
In the reconciliation above, depreciation is recognized as a
“component not requiring or generating resources.” Another
example is Non-Entity Filing Fee Revenue, Net. “Non-entity”
filing fee revenue is not available to the SEC for use in its
operations; accordingly, this revenue does not generate
budgetary resources for the SEC.

NOTE 16. Disgorgement and Penalties
The SEC’s non-entity assets include disgorgement, penalties, and interest assessed against securities law violators by
the Commission or a Federal court. The SEC also recognizes
an equal and offsetting liability for these non-entity assets,
as discussed in Note 1.L, Liabilities.
When the Commission or court issues an order for the
SEC to collect disgorgement, penalties, and interest from
securities law violators, the SEC establishes an account
receivable due to the SEC. Upon collection, the SEC may
(a) hold receipts in the Disgorgement and Penalty Deposit
Fund as FBWT or Treasury investments pending distribution to harmed investors, (b) deposit receipts in the
U.S. Treasury General Fund or, (c) transfer amounts to
the Investor Protection Fund. The situations where funds
would not be held for distribution to harmed investors
arise when the SEC either determines it is not practical to
return funds to investors or when court orders expressly
state that funds are to be remitted to the U.S. Treasury. The

determination as to whether funds not held for distribution
to harmed investors will be deposited in the U.S. Treasury
or transferred to the Investor Protection Fund is made in
accordance with the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act,
and is dependent on the balance in the Investor Protection
Fund on the day the amounts are collected. (See Note 1.S,
Investor Protection Fund).
Disbursements related to disgorgements and penalties
include distributions to harmed investors, payments to tax
authorities, and fees paid to plan administrators and the
Bureau of the Fiscal Service. The SEC does not record
accounts receivable on its financial statements for any
amounts ordered to another Government entity such as
a court, or a non-governmental entity such as a receiver.
Additional details regarding disgorgement and penalties
are presented in Note 1.R, Disgorgement and Penalties,
and Note 2, Entity and Non-Entity Assets.

At September 30, the net inflows and outflows for FBWT, Investments, and Accounts Receivable related to disgorgement
and penalties consisted of the following:
FY 2015

FY 2014

$	933,447
1,314,854
	(1,107,064)
	(56,185)
	(764,052)

$	988,237
1,478,207
(510,901)
(197,069)
(825,027)

321,000

933,447

710
	(697)

387
323

13

710

Investments, Net:
Beginning Balance
Net Activity

1,360,520
1,108,293

848,441
512,079

Total Investments, Net (Notes 2 and 5)

2,468,813

1,360,520

Accounts Receivable, Net:
Beginning Balance
Net Activity

380,583
358,122

297,098
83,485

Total Accounts Receivable, Net (Notes 2 and 6)

738,705

380,583

$	3,528,531

$	2,675,260

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Fund Balance with Treasury:
Beginning Balance
Collections
Purchases and Redemptions of Treasury Securities
Disbursements
Transfers and Deposits to the U.S. Treasury General Fund
Total Fund Balance with Treasury (Note 2)
Cash and Other Monetary Assets:
Beginning Balance
Net Activity
Total Cash and Other Monetary Assets (Notes 2 and 4)

Total Disgorgement and Penalties

101

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 17. Statement of Changes in Net Position
In FY 2015, the negative $531,222 thousand in “Other”
Financing Sources reported in the Statement of Changes
in Net Position consists of $531,192 thousand in securities registration, tender offer, merger, and other fees from
registrants (“filing fees”) and $30 thousand in Freedom of
Information Act (FOIA) fees collected, or to be collected, for
deposit into the U.S. Treasury General Fund.

102

In FY 2014, the negative $528,889 thousand consists of
$528,858 thousand in filing fees and $31 thousand in FOIA
revenues collected, or to be collected, for deposit into the
U.S. Treasury General Fund.

Required Supplementary Information (Unaudited)
This section provides the Required Supplementary Information as prescribed by OMB Circular A-136, Financial Reporting
Requirements.
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Combining Statements of Budgetary Resources by Fund
For the year ended September 30, 2015

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Unobligated Balance, Brought Forward, October 1
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Other Changes in Unobligated Balance
Unobligated Balance from Prior Year Budget Authority, Net
Appropriations (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Spending Authority from Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Total Budgetary Resources
STATUS OF BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Obligations Incurred (Note 14)
Unobligated Balance, End of Year:
Apportioned
Exempt from Apportionment
Unapportioned
Total Unobligated Balance, End of Year
Total Budgetary Resources
CHANGE IN OBLIGATED BALANCE:
Unpaid Obligations:
Unpaid Obligations, Brought Forward, October 1 (Gross)
Obligations Incurred
Outlays (Gross)
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Unpaid Obligations, End of Year
Uncollected Payments:
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, Brought Forward, October 1
Change in Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, End of Year
Memorandum (non-add) entries:
Obligated Balance, Start of Year
Obligated Balance, End of Year
BUDGET AUTHORITY AND OUTLAYS, NET:
Budget Authority, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Change in Uncollected Customer Payments from Federal Sources
(Discretionary and Mandatory)
Budget Authority, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Distributed Offsetting Receipts
Agency Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

Salaries and
Expenses and
Other Funds
X0100, 09/10 0100,
1435, 3220

Investor
Protection
Fund

Reserve
Fund

5567

5566

$	(284,560)
30,733
	(764)
	(254,591)
5,704
1,495,633
$	1,246,746

$	407,877
	—
	—
407,877
4,423
	—
$	412,300

$	327
3,528
	—
3,855
49,925
	—
$	53,780

$	123,644
34,261
	(764)
157,141
60,052
1,495,633
$	1,712,826

$	1,481,968

$	14,851

$	53,452

$	1,550,271

36,208
	—
	(271,430)
	(235,222)
$	1,246,746

397,449
	—
	—
397,449
$	412,300

	—
328
	—
328
$	53,780

433,657
328
	(271,430)
162,555
$	1,712,826

$	832,916
1,481,968
	(1,433,138)
	(30,733)
851,013

$	23,136
14,851
	(37,970)
	—
17

$	59,794
53,452
	(54,905)
	(3,528)
54,813

$	915,846
1,550,271
	(1,526,013)
	(34,261)
905,843

	(435)
409
	(26)

	—
	—
	—

	—
	—
	—

	(435)
409
	(26)

$	832,481

$	23,136

$	59,794

$	915,411

$	850,987

$	17

$	54,813

$	905,817

$	1,501,337
	(1,493,660)

$	4,423
	—

$	49,925
	—

$	1,555,685
	(1,493,660)

409
$	8,086

	—
$	4,423

	—
$	49,925

409
$	62,434

$	1,433,138
	(1,493,660)
	(60,522)
	(398)
$	(60,920)

$	37,970
	—
37,970
2,057
$	40,027

$	54,905
	—
54,905
	—
$	54,905

$	1,526,013
	(1,493,660)
32,353
1,659
$	34,012

Total

103

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Combining Statements of Budgetary Resources by Fund (continued)
For the year ended September 30, 2014

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Unobligated Balance, Brought Forward, October 1
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Other Changes in Unobligated Balance
Unobligated Balance from Prior Year Budget Authority, Net
Appropriations (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Spending Authority from Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Total Budgetary Resources
STATUS OF BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Obligations Incurred (Note 14)
Unobligated Balance, End of Year:
Apportioned
Exempt from Apportionment
Unapportioned
Total Unobligated Balance, End of Year
Total Budgetary Resources
CHANGE IN OBLIGATED BALANCE:
Unpaid Obligations:
Unpaid Obligations, Brought Forward, October 1 (Gross)
Obligations Incurred
Outlays (Gross)
Recoveries of Prior Year Unpaid Obligations
Unpaid Obligations, End of Year
Uncollected Payments:
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, Brought Forward, October 1
Change in Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources
Uncollected Payments, Federal Sources, End of Year
Memorandum (non-add) entries:
Obligated Balance, Start of Year
Obligated Balance, End of Year
BUDGET AUTHORITY AND OUTLAYS, NET:
Budget Authority, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Change in Uncollected Customer Payments from Federal Sources
(Discretionary and Mandatory)
Budget Authority, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Actual Offsetting Collections (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Distributed Offsetting Receipts
Agency Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

104

Salaries and
Expenses and
Other Funds
X0100, 09/10 0100,
1435, 3220

Investor
Protection
Fund

Reserve
Fund

5567

5566

$	(333,375)
33,521
	—
(299,854)
59,012
1,292,430
$	1,051,588

$	434,392
	—
	—
434,392
(1,399)
	—
$	432,993

$	43,749
33
	—
43,782
22,150
	—
$	65,932

$	144,766
33,554
	—
178,320
79,763
1,292,430
$	1,550,513

$	1,336,148

$	25,116

$	65,605

$	1,426,869

47,972
	—
(332,532)
(284,560)
$	1,051,588

407,877
	—
	—
407,877
$	432,993

	—
327
	—
327
$	65,932

455,849
327
(332,532)
123,644
$	1,550,513

$	825,600
1,336,148
(1,295,311)
(33,521)
832,916

$	—
25,116
(1,980)
	—
23,136

$29,047
65,605
(34,825)
(33)
59,794

$	854,647
1,426,869
(1,332,116)
(33,554)
915,846

(252)
(183)
(435)

	—
	—
	—

	—
	—
	—

(252)
(183)
(435)

$	825,348

$	—

$	29,047

$	854,395

$	832,481

$	23,136

$	59,794

$	915,411

$	1,351,442
(1,292,247)

$	(1,399)
	—

$	22,150
	—

$	1,372,193
(1,292,247)

(183)
$	59,012

	—
$	(1,399)

	—
$	22,150

(183)
$	79,763

$	1,295,311
(1,292,247)
3,064
(1,439)
$	1,625

$	1,980
	—
1,980
(490)
$	1,490

$	34,825
	—
34,825
	—
$	34,825

$	1,332,116
(1,292,247)
39,869
(1,929)
$	37,940

Total

I

Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements	 106
Notes to the Investor Protection
Fund Financial Statements	

108

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND

Balance Sheets
As of September 30, 2015 and 2014
FY 2015

FY 2014

$	2,360
398,333

$	42,627
395,169

Total Assets

$	400,693

$	437,796

LIABILITIES (NOTE 4):
Accounts Payable
Contingent Liabilities (Note 5)

$	17
13,565

$	23,136
	—

13,582

23,136

387,111

414,660

Total Net Position – Funds from Dedicated Collections

387,111

414,660

Total Net Position

387,111

414,660

$	400,693

$	437,796

FY 2015

FY 2014

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

ASSETS:
Intragovernmental:
Fund Balance with Treasury (Note 2)
Investments, Net (Note 3)

Total Liabilities
Commitments and Contingencies (Note 5)
NET POSITION:
Cumulative Results of Operations – Funds from Dedicated Collections

Total Liabilities and Net Position
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND

Statements of Net Cost
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

PROGRAM COSTS (Note 6):
Awards to Whistleblowers
Employee Suggestion Program
Total Program Costs
Net (Income) Cost from Operations
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

106

$	28,397

$	25,069

19

47

28,416

25,116

$	28,416

$	25,116

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND

Statements of Changes in Net Position
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014
FY 2015

FY 2014

$	414,660

$	439,197

Budgetary Financing Sources:
Non-Exchange Revenue

867

579

Total Financing Sources

867

579

Net Income (Cost) from Operations

(28,416)

(25,116)

Net Change

(27,549)

(24,537)

387,111

414,660

$	387,111

$	414,660

FY 2015

FY 2014

$	407,877
4,423

$	434,392
(1,399)

$	412,300

$	432,993

$14,851

$	25,116

397,449

407,877

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

CUMULATIVE RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – FUNDS FROM DEDICATED COLLECTIONS:
Beginning Balances

Cumulative Results of Operations
Net Position, End of Period
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND

Statements of Budgetary Resources
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Unobligated Balance, Brought Forward, October 1
Appropriations (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Total Budgetary Resources
STATUS OF BUDGETARY RESOURCES:
Obligations Incurred – Category B
Unobligated Balance, End of Year:
Apportioned
Total Unobligated Balance, End of Year

397,449

407,877

Total Budgetary Resources

$	412,300

$	432,993

CHANGE IN OBLIGATED BALANCE:
Unpaid Obligations:
Unpaid Obligations, Brought Forward, October 1 (Gross)
Obligations Incurred
Outlays (Gross)

$	23,136
14,851
(37,970)

$	—
	25,116
(1,980)

$	17

$	23,136

$	4,423
$	4,423

$	(1,399)
$	(1,399)

$	37,970
37,970

$	1,980
1,980

Unpaid Obligations, End of Year
BUDGET AUTHORITY AND OUTLAYS, NET:
Budget Authority, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Budget Authority, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Gross (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)
Distributed Offsetting Receipts
Agency Outlays, Net (Discretionary and Mandatory)

2,057

(490)

$	40,027

$	1,490

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.

107

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

Notes to the Investor Protection Fund Financial Statements
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
INVESTOR PROTECTION FUND

As of September 30, 2015 and 2014

NOTE 1. Significant Accounting Policies
A. Reporting Structure
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) is an
independent agency of the U.S. Government established
pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange
Act), charged with regulating this country’s capital markets.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act of 2010 (Dodd-Frank Act) established the
Securities and Exchange Commission Investor Protection
Fund. The Investor Protection Fund provides funding for a
Whistleblower Award Program and finances the operations
of the SEC Office of Inspector General’s (OIG) Employee
Suggestion Program. The Investor Protection Fund is a fund
within the SEC, and these financial statements present a
segment of the SEC’s financial activity.

B. Basis of Presentation and Accounting
The accompanying financial statements present the
financial position, net cost of operations, changes in net
position, and budgetary resources of the Investor Protection
Fund as required by Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(5).
The Act requires a complete set of financial statements that
includes a balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow
analysis. The Investor Protection Fund is a Federal reporting
entity. As such, its financial statements are prepared in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) for the Federal Government, and are presented in
conformity with OMB Circular A-136, Financial Reporting
Requirements. The legislative requirements to prepare an
income statement and cash flow analysis are addressed
by the Statement of Net Cost and Note 2, Fund Balance
with Treasury, respectively.
The SEC’s books and records serve as the source of
the information presented in the accompanying financial
statements.
The agency classifies assets, liabilities, revenues, and costs
in these financial statements according to the type of entity
associated with the transactions. Intragovernmental assets
108

and liabilities are those due from or to other Federal entities,
including other funds within the SEC. Intragovernmental
revenues and costs result from transactions with other
Federal entities, including other funds within the SEC.
The Balance Sheet, Statement of Net Cost and Statement
of Changes in Net Position are prepared using the accrual
basis of accounting. Accordingly, revenues are recognized
when earned and expenses are recognized when incurred
without regard to the receipt or payment of cash. These
principles differ from budgetary accounting and reporting
principles on which the Statement of Budgetary Resources
is prepared. A reconciliation of differences, if any, between
the accrual-based Statement of Net Cost and the budgetarybased Statement of Budgetary Resources is presented in
Note 8, Reconciliation of Net Cost of Operations to Budget.

C. Use of Estimates
The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with GAAP requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities. These estimates and assumptions include
the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of
revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual
results may differ from these estimates.

D. Intra- and Inter-Agency Relationships
Transactions with Other SEC Funds
The Investor Protection Fund is comprised of a single
Federal Treasury Fund Symbol. The Investor Protection
Fund is the recipient of non-exchange revenues collected
by the SEC. Amounts transferred to the Investor Protection
Fund are classified as “retained by the SEC” because
the Investor Protection Fund is a fund within the SEC.
The Investor Protection Fund finances the operations
of the SEC Office of Inspector General’s Employee
Suggestion Program.

Transactions with Other Federal Agencies

H. Investments

Whistleblower payments may be made from the Investor
Protection Fund as a result of monetary sanctions paid
to other Federal agencies in related actions, but only
if there has been a Commission enforcement action
resulting in sanctions of a million dollars or greater and
the Commission has determined that the whistleblower is
eligible for an award and recommended the percentage.
In those instances, the SEC remains liable for paying the
whistleblower. However, in instances where a whistleblower has already received an award from the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the whistleblower is
not entitled to an award from the SEC.

The SEC has authority to invest amounts in the Investor
Protection Fund in overnight and short-term, market-based
Treasury securities. The interest earned on the investments
is a component of the Fund and is available to be used for
expenses of the Investor Protection Fund. Additional details
regarding Investor Protection Fund investments are provided
in Note 3, Investments.

E. Funds from Dedicated Collections
A fund from dedicated collections is financed by specifically
identified revenues, provided to the government by nonFederal sources, often supplemented by other financing
sources, which remain available over time. These specifically
identified revenues and other financing sources are required
by statute to be used for designated activities, benefits or
purposes, and must be accounted for separately from the
Government’s general revenues. Investor Protection Fund
resources are funds from dedicated collections and may only
be used for the purposes specified by the Dodd-Frank Act.

F. Entity Assets
Assets that an agency is authorized to use in its operations
are entity assets. The SEC is authorized to use all funds in
the Investor Protection Fund for the purposes specified by
the Dodd-Frank Act. Accordingly, all assets are recognized
as entity assets.

G. Fund Balance with Treasury
Fund Balance with Treasury reflects amounts the Investor
Protection Fund holds in the U.S. Treasury that have not
been invested in Federal securities. The SEC conducts all
of its banking activity in accordance with directives issued
by the U.S. Department of the Treasury’s Bureau of the
Fiscal Service.

I. Liabilities
The SEC records liabilities for probable future outflows
or other sacrifices of resources as a result of events that
have occurred as of the Balance Sheet date. The Investor
Protection Fund’s liabilities consist of amounts payable to
whistleblowers and amounts recognized as contingent
liabilities for whistleblower awards.
The SEC recognizes liabilities that are covered by budgetary
resources and liabilities that are not covered by budgetary
resources. Budgetary and financial statement reporting requirements sometimes differ on the timing for the required recognition of an expense. For example, financial reporting requirements include the recognition of certain contingent liabilities
that, if they become actual liabilities in the future, would be
covered by budgetary resources in the future period(s) in which
they occur. Liabilities that are covered by budgetary resources
are liabilities incurred for which budgetary resources are available to the SEC without further Congressional action. Refer
to Note 4, Liabilities Covered and Not Covered by Budgetary
Resources, for detailed information regarding liabilities covered
and not covered by budgetary resources.
The Dodd-Frank Act and the SEC implementing regulations
establish the eligibility criteria for whistleblower awards. Refer
to Note 5, Commitments and Contingencies for additional
information regarding the disclosure and recognition of actual
and contingent liabilities for whistleblower awards.

J. Program Costs
The Investor Protection Fund reimburses the SEC’s Salaries
and Expenses account (X0100) for expenses incurred by
the Office of Inspector General to administer the Employee
Suggestion Program. The Investor Protection Fund also
finances payments to whistleblowers under Section 21F
of the Exchange Act.

109

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

K. Non-Exchange Revenue
Disgorgement and Penalty Transfers
Non-exchange revenue arises from the Government’s
ability to demand payment. The Investor Protection Fund
is financed through the receipt of monetary sanctions
collected by the SEC in judicial or administrative actions
brought by the SEC under the securities laws that are not
either: (1) added to the disgorgement fund or other fund
under Section 308 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15
U.S.C. 7246) or (2) otherwise distributed to victims of a
violation of the securities laws. The Investor Protection Fund
recognizes non-exchange revenue for disgorgement and
penalty amounts transferred into the fund from the SEC’s
Disgorgement and Penalties Fund (X6563). No sanction
collected by the SEC can be deposited into the Investor
Protection Fund if the balance in the fund exceeds $300
million on the day of collection.

Interest Earnings on Investments with Treasury
Interest earned from investments in U.S. Treasury securities
is classified in the same way as the predominant source

of revenue to the fund. The Investor Protection Fund is
financed through the receipt of non-exchange revenues
and thus interest earnings are also recognized as nonexchange revenues.

L. Budgets and Budgetary Accounting
The Investor Protection Fund (X5567) is a special fund established through a permanent indefinite appropriation that has
the authority to retain revenues and other financing sources
not used in the current period for future use. The Dodd-Frank
Act provides that the Fund is available to the SEC without
further appropriation or fiscal year limitation for the purpose
of paying awards to whistleblowers and funding the activities
of the OIG’s employee suggestion program. However, the
SEC is required to request and obtain an annual apportionment from OMB to use these funds.
The resources of the Investor Protection Fund are apportioned under Category B authority, which means that the
funds represent budgetary resources distributed by a specified project and are not subject to quarterly apportionment.
Thus, all obligations incurred as presented on the Statement
of Budgetary Resources are derived from Category B funds.

NOTE 2. Fund Balance with Treasury
The Fund Balance with Treasury by type of fund and Status of Fund Balance with Treasury as of September 30, 2015
and 2014 consisted of the following:
FY 2015

FY 2014

Fund Balances:
Special Fund

$	2,360

$	42,627

Total Fund Balance with Treasury

$	2,360

$	42,627

2,343

$	13,011

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Status of Fund Balance with Treasury:
Unobligated Balance:
	Available
	Unavailable
Obligated Balance not Yet Disbursed
Total Status of Fund Balance with Treasury

Unobligated balances reported for the status of Fund
Balance with Treasury do not agree with the amounts
reported in the Statement of Budgetary Resources due
to the fact that funds for unobligated balances are held
in investments as well as in Fund Balance with Treasury.
110

	—

6,480

17

23,136

$	2,360

$	42,627

There were no differences between the Fund Balance
reflected in the Investor Protection Fund financial statements
and the balance in the Treasury accounts.

Cash Flow
The Investor Protection Fund cash flows during FY 2015
consisted of:

of operating the OIG Employee Suggestion Program
of $19 thousand.
Cash flows during FY 2014 consisted of:

•	 Net cash outflows for purchases of investments of
$230 thousand,

•	 Net cash inflows from investment redemptions of
$39.2 million,

•	 Net cash outflows for investment interest of $2.1 million
(which includes $4.2 million of interest collections, less
$6.3 million of premiums paid, and $23 thousand in
discounts received), and

•	 Net cash inflows from interest received of $412
thousand (which includes $648 thousand of interest
collections, less $258 thousand of premiums paid, and
$22 thousand in discounts received), and

•	 Net cash outflows for payment of whistleblower awards
totaling $23.1 million for amounts that were awarded
during FY 2014 and $14.8 million for amounts that were
awarded during FY 2015, and payment of expenses

•	 Net cash outflows for payments of whistleblower
awards totaling $2 million, and payment of expenses
of operating the OIG Employee Suggestion Program
of $47 thousand.

NOTE 3. Investments
The SEC invests funds in overnight and short-term nonmarketable market-based Treasury bills. The SEC records
the value of its investments in Treasury bills at cost and
amortizes any premium or discount on a straight-line
basis (S/L) through the maturity date of these securities.

Non-marketable market-based Treasury securities are
issued by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service to Federal
agencies. They are not traded on any securities exchange
but mirror the prices of similar Treasury securities trading
in the Government securities market.

At September 30, 2015, investments consisted of the following:

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Non-Marketable Market-Based Securities
Investor Protection Fund – Entity

Cost

Amortization
Method

$ 401,387

S/L

Amortized
(Premium)
Discount

Interest
Receivable

Investment,
Net

Market Value
Disclosure

$

$

1,736

$ 398,333

$ 396,843

(4,790)

At September 30, 2014, investments consisted of the following:

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Non-Marketable Market-Based Securities
Investor Protection Fund – Entity

Cost

Amortization
Method

Amortized
(Premium)
Discount

Interest
Receivable

Investment,
Net

Market Value
Disclosure

$	 395,124

S/L

$	(196)

$	241

$	395,169

$	394,978

Intragovernmental Investments in Treasury Securities
Market-based Treasury securities are debt securities
that the U.S. Treasury issues to Federal entities without
statutorily determined interest rates. Although the securities
are not marketable, the terms (prices and interest rates)
mirror the terms of marketable Treasury securities.

The Federal Government does not set aside assets to pay
future benefits or other expenditures associated with the
investment by Federal agencies in non-marketable Federal
securities. The balances underlying these investments are
deposited in the U.S. Treasury, which uses the cash for

111

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

general Government purposes. Treasury securities are
issued to the SEC as evidence of these balances. Treasury
securities are an asset of the SEC and a liability of the
U.S. Treasury. Because the SEC and the U.S. Treasury
are both components of the Government, these assets
and liabilities offset each other from the standpoint of the
Government as a whole. For this reason, the investments
presented by the SEC do not represent an asset or a
liability in the U.S. Government-wide financial statements.

Treasury securities provide the SEC with authority to draw
upon the U.S. Treasury to make future payments from these
accounts. When the SEC requires redemption of these
securities to make expenditures, the Government finances
those expenditures out of accumulated cash balances, by
raising taxes or other receipts, by borrowing from the public
or repaying less debt, or by curtailing other expenditures.
This is the same manner in which the Government finances
all expenditures.

NOTE 4. Liabilities Covered and Not Covered by Budgetary Resources
The SEC recognizes liabilities that are covered by budgetary
resources and liabilities that are not covered by budgetary
resources. Budgetary and financial statement reporting
requirements sometimes differ on the timing for the required
recognition of an expense. For example, financial reporting

requirements include the recognition of certain contingent
liabilities that, if they become actual liabilities, would be
covered by budgetary resources in the future periods in
which they occur.

At September 30, 2015, liabilities consisted of the following:
Liabilities Covered by
Budgetary Resources

Liabilities Not Covered by
Budgetary Resources

Total

Accounts Payable
Contingent Liabilities

$	17
	—

$	—
13,565

$	17
13,565

Total Liabilities

$	17

$	13,565

$	13,582

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

At September 30, 2014, liabilities consisted of the following:
Liabilities Covered by
Budgetary Resources

Liabilities Not Covered by
Budgetary Resources

Total

Accounts Payable
Contingent Liabilities

$	23,136
	—

$	—
	—

$	23,136
	—

Total Liabilities

$	23,136

$	—

$	23,136

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

NOTE 5. Commitments and Contingencies
Commitments and Contingencies:
Whistleblower Program
As mentioned in Note 1.I, Liabilities, the Investor Protection
Fund is used to pay awards to whistleblowers if they
voluntarily provide original information to the SEC and
meet other conditions. The legislation allows whistleblowers
to receive between 10 and 30 percent of the monetary
sanctions collected in the covered action or in a related

112

action, with the actual percentage being determined at
the discretion of the SEC using criteria provided in the
legislation and the related rules to implement the legislation
adopted by the SEC.
A Preliminary Determination is a first assessment, made by
the Claims Review Staff appointed by the Director of the
Division of Enforcement, as to whether the claim should
be allowed or denied, and if allowed, what the proposed

award percentage amount should be. A contingent liability
is recognized when (a) a positive Preliminary Determination
has been made by the Claims Review Staff, (b) collection
has been made, and (c) the percentage to be paid can be
reasonably estimated. A potential liability is disclosed but
not recognized when a positive Preliminary Determination
is expected and a collection has been received. A liability is
recognized when a positive Proposed Final Determination
has been issued by the Claims Review Staff and collection
has been received. In all cases the whistleblower award is
not paid until amounts have been collected, a final order
is issued by the Commission and the appeal rights of all
claimants on the matter have been exhausted.
The SEC recognized a contingent liability for potential
whistleblower awards for the period ended September 30,
2015 of $13.6 million. The SEC did not recognize a contingent liability for potential whistleblower awards for the
period ended September 30, 2014.

As of September 30, 2015, potential whistleblower payments
for cases where positive Preliminary Determinations have
not been made, but are reasonably possible, are estimated to range from $224.8 million to $674.4 million given
the amount of current collections on those cases. Such
claims do not meet the criteria for recognition as contingent liabilities in FY 2015. As of September 30, 2015, the
upper end of the range of reasonably possible liabilities
exceeds the net asset balance of the Investor Protection
Fund. In the event that whistleblower awards payments
reduce the Investor Protection Fund net asset balance
below $300,000,000, the Investor Protection Fund will be
replenished as described in the “Disgorgement and Penalty
Transfers” section of Note 1.K, Non-Exchange Revenue.
As of September 30, 2014, potential whistleblower
payments that were reasonably possible, but did not meet
the criteria for recognition as contingent liabilities, were
estimated to range from $25.7 million to $77.1 million.

NOTE 6. Intragovernmental Costs
The Statement of Net Cost presents the Investor Protection
Fund’s results of operations for its two activities: the Employee
Suggestion Program and awards to whistleblowers under
the Dodd-Frank whistleblower program. Intragovernmental
costs arise from purchases of goods and services from other
components of the Federal Government (including other
SEC funds). In contrast, public costs are those which arise
from the purchase of goods and services from non-Federal
entities. Awards to whistleblowers are categorized as “costs
with the public.”

In FY 2015, the Employee Suggestion Program incurred
$19 thousand of intragovernmental costs. The Dodd-Frank
whistleblower program incurred $28.4 million of costs with
the public (awards to whistleblowers) in FY 2015.
In FY 2014, the Employee Suggestion Program incurred
$47 thousand of intragovernmental costs. The Dodd-Frank
whistleblower program incurred $25.1 million of costs with
the public (awards to whistleblowers) in FY 2014.

113

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

FINANCIAL SECTION

NOTE 7. Status of Budgetary Resources
A. Explanation of Differences between the
Statement of Budgetary Resources and the
Budget of the U.S. Government
A comparison between the FY 2015 Statement of Budgetary
Resources and the actual FY 2015 data in the President’s
budget cannot be presented, as the FY 2017 President’s
budget which will contain FY 2015 actual data is not yet
available; the comparison will be presented in next year’s
financial statements. There are no differences between the
FY 2014 SBR and the FY 2014 data in the President’s budget.

B. Other Budgetary Disclosures
There were no budgetary resources obligated for undelivered
orders as of September 30, 2015 and 2014.
There are no legal arrangements affecting the use of
unobligated balances of budget authority, such as time
limits, purpose, and obligation limitations.

NOTE 8. Reconciliation of Net Cost of Operations to Budget
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014:
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

RESOURCES USED TO FINANCE ACTIVITIES:
Budgetary Resources Obligated:
Obligations Incurred

FY 2015

FY 2014

$	 14,851

$	 25,116

Total Resources Used to Finance the Net Cost of Operations

14,851

25,116

COMPONENTS OF NET COST OF OPERATIONS THAT WILL NOT REQUIRE OR GENERATE RESOURCES IN CURRENT PERIOD:
Components Requiring or Generating Resources in Future Periods:
Change in Unfunded Liability

13,565

	

Total Components of Net Cost of Operations that will not Require or Generate Resources in the Current Period

13,565

	

Net (Income) Cost from Operations

Components of net cost of operations that will not require
or generate budgetary resources represent required timing
differences in the Statement of Net Cost and the Statement
of Budgetary Resources. For the year ended September 30,
2015, the SEC awarded $14.9 million in new whistleblower
awards, of which $17 thousand was payable at September
30, 2015, and recognized $13.6 million in contingent liabilities
for whistleblower awards. Refer to Note 4, Liabilities Covered
and Not Covered by Budgetary Resources, and Note 5,

114

$	 28,416

—
—
$	 25,116

Commitments and Contingencies, for more information
about contingent liabilities.
For the year ended September 30, 2014, Obligations
Incurred equaled the Net Cost of Operations and there
were no reconciling items.

Other Information

T

his section provides additional information regarding the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) financial and
performance management:

•	 Combined Schedule of Spending (Unaudited): Provides an

•	 Summary of Financial Statement Audit and Management

overview of how the SEC spent its resources based on

Assurances: Summary tables are provided for each material

the amount available to the SEC and to whom the money

weakness and non-conformance found and/or resolved

was spent.

during the U.S. Government Accountability Office’s (GAO)

•	 Inspector General’s Statement on Management and
Performance Challenges: Provides a summary of the most
serious management and performance challenges facing

audit as well as found by management during the evaluation of internal control and financial systems required by the
Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act (FMFIA).

the SEC as identified by management and the Office of

•	 Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act Reporting

Inspector General (OIG) in accordance with the Reports

Details: Provides information on the SEC’s commitment and

Consolidation Act of 2000. Also included is a response

progress in reducing improper payments, including efforts

from the SEC Chair outlining the agency’s progress in

to recapture payments made improperly.

addressing the challenges.

•	 Civil Monetary Penalty Adjustment for Inflation: Provides
inflationary adjustments to civil monetary penalties as required
by the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of
1990, as amended.

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Combined Schedule of Spending (Unaudited)
The Schedule of Spending presents a more detailed summary of the “Obligations Incurred” line presented on the Statement
of Budgetary Resources, and how these amounts agreed to be spent compare to the SEC’s total resources after factoring
out amounts available but not agreed to be spent, as well as amounts not available to be spent. The SEC’s obligations
are categorized by major program and object class.
In an additional effort to improve the quality of data reported on USASpending.gov for public transparency, the SEC also
reconciles between obligations reported on the financial statements and spending reported on the website. The majority of
obligations included on the financial statements that are not included on USASpending.gov include the following: personnel
compensation and benefits, leases, interagency agreements, travel, and training. Differences may also exist due to timing
lags between obligations reported in SEC’s financial reporting system and data transmitted to USASpending.gov through
the central Federal Procurement Data System.
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Combined Schedule of Spending
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014
(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

What Money is Available to Spend?
Total Resources
Less Amount Available but Not Agreed to be Spent
Less Amount Not Available to be Spent
Total Amounts Agreed to be Spent
How was the Money Spent/Issued?
Enforcement
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Compliance Inspections and Examinations
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Corporation Finance
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Trading and Markets
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other

116

FY 2015

FY 2014

$	1,712,826
433,985
	(271,430)

$	1,550,513
456,176
(332,532)

$	1,550,271

$	1,426,869

$	316,710
180,666
34,685
14,853

$	286,868
124,255
8,809
25,072

546,914

445,004

216,971
74,879
19,152
14

193,531
43,055
6,039
4

311,016

242,629

108,257
36,377
7,909
	—

100,661
18,262
3,368
	—

152,543

122,291

58,298
21,139
4,342
	—

54,514
9,832
1,758
	—

83,779

66,104
(continued on next page)

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Combined Schedule of Spending (continued)
For the years ended September 30, 2015 and 2014
FY 2015

FY 2014

42,904
14,111
3,158
	—

40,206
6,580
1,260
	—

60,173

48,046

31,712
20,689
2,537
	—

22,028
19,487
1,281
	—

54,938

42,796

34,147
11,528
2,504
497

29,865
5,578
898
216

48,676

36,557

47,477
21,383
3,662
	—

42,556
8,803
1,369
	—

72,522

52,728

131,460
60,716
16,049
	—

127,648
179,520
56,418
49

208,225

363,635

7,872
2,685
928
	—

5,507
1,374
198
	—

11,485

7,079

Total Amounts Agreed to be Spent

$	1,550,271

$	1,426,869

Who did the Money go to?
Non-Federal Individuals and Organizations
Federal Agencies1

$	1,359,946
190,325

$	1,255,9092
170,9602

Total Amounts Agreed to be Spent

$	1,550,271

$	1,426,869

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

Investment Management
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Economic and Risk Analysis
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
General Counsel
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Other Program Offices
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Agency Direction and Administrative Support
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other
Inspector General
Personnel Compensation and Benefits
Contractual Services
Acquisition of Assets
Other

1	

“Federal Agencies” include Federal agencies, offices, and all other organizations that are components of the U.S. Government.

2	

“Federal Agencies” was revised for FY 2014 to include Federal personnel benefits activity.

117

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Inspector General’s Statement on Management
and Performance Challenges
UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

OFFICE OF
INSPECTOR GENERAL

MEMORANDUM
September 30, 2015
TO:

Mary Jo White, Chair

FROM:

Carl W. Hoecker, Inspector General

SUBJECT: The Inspector General’s Statement on the SEC’s Management and Performance
Challenges, September 2015
The Reports Consolidation Act of 2000 requires the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC or agency) Office of Inspector General (OIG) to identify and report annually
on the most serious management challenges that the SEC faces. In deciding whether to
identify an issue as a challenge, we consider its significance in relation to the SEC’s mission;
its susceptibility to fraud, waste, and abuse; and the SEC’s progress in addressing the
challenge. We compiled this statement on the basis of past and ongoing audit, evaluation, and
investigation work; our knowledge of the SEC’s programs and operations; and information from
SEC management and staff and the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) auditors
who conduct the SEC’s annual financial statement audit. We previously provided a draft copy
of this statement to SEC officials and considered all comments received when finalizing the
statement. As we begin fiscal year (FY) 2016, we identified the following areas where the SEC
faces management and performance challenges to varying degrees:


Regulatory Oversight



Information Security



Acquisition Management



Financial Management



Human Capital Management

Each challenge and corresponding audit, evaluation, or investigation work is further discussed
in the attachment. If you have any questions, please contact Rebecca L. Sharek, Deputy
Inspector General for Audits, Evaluations, and Special Projects, at sharekr@sec.gov.

118

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Chair White
September 30, 2015
Page 2

Attachment
cc:

Andrew Donahue, Chief of Staff, Office of the Chair
Erica Y. Williams, Deputy Chief of Staff, Office of the Chair
Luis A. Aguilar, Commissioner
Paul Gumagay, Counsel, Office of Commissioner Aguilar
Daniel M. Gallagher, Commissioner
Michael C. Pawluk, Counsel, Office of Commissioner Gallagher
Michael S. Piwowar, Commissioner
Jaime Klima, Counsel, Office of Commissioner Piwowar
Kara M. Stein, Commissioner
Robert Peak, Advisor to the Commissioner, Office of Commissioner Stein
Jeffery Heslop, Chief Operating Officer
Darlene L. Pryor, Management and Program Analyst, Office of the Chief Operating
Officer

119

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Chair White
September 30, 2015
Page 3

Attachment. THE INSPECTOR GENERAL’S STATEMENT ON THE SEC’S MANAGEMENT
AND PERFORMANCE CHALLENGES, SEPTEMBER 2015
Regulatory Oversight
The increase in the SEC’s responsibilities in recent years continues to present challenges for
the agency as it carries out its mission to protect investors; maintain fair, orderly, and efficient
markets; and facilitate capital formation. As a regulatory agency, the SEC must be able to
keep pace with changes in the size and complexity of the securities markets and the market
participants the SEC oversees and regulates. In her March 24, 2015, testimony before the
United States House of Representatives Committee on Financial Services, the SEC Chair
identified a lack of sufficient resources as a continuing challenge. Specifically, she stated:
Although improvements to technology and operations have made the agency
more efficient and effective and recent growth in the SEC’s budget has permitted
the agency to begin to address gaps, more is needed to match our resources to
our growing mandates and the increasing complexity of the markets. There
continues to be an immediate and pressing need for additional resources to
permit the agency to increase its examination coverage of registered investment
advisers and investment companies so as to better protect investors and the
nation’s securities markets.1
In 2014, we reported that the SEC (specifically, the SEC Chair and the Investor Advocate) had
identified resource constraints and an immediate and pressing need for ensuring sufficient
examination coverage of registered investment advisers as a challenge and a “substantial and
continuing risk to investors.”2 As a result, in fiscal year (FY) 2015, we initiated an evaluation to
assess the Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations’ efficiency and effectiveness in
managing its human resources to address mission priorities and long-term goals, particularly
for investment adviser examinations. Our work is ongoing and we anticipate issuing a report
summarizing our findings in FY 2016.
The SEC also continues to recognize needed technological improvements to achieve its
mission. In her Congressional testimony, the SEC Chair further stated that, in FY 2016, the
SEC plans to build on the progress made over the past few years to modernize its technology
systems, streamline operations, and increase the effectiveness of its programs. Key
information technology (IT) initiatives she testified to included:


implementing data analytics tools;



continuing Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval (EDGAR) modernization;

1

Chair Mary Jo White testimony on “Examining the SEC’s Agenda, Operations and FY 2016 Budget Request,”
March 24, 2015, before the United States House of Representatives Committee on Financial Services. The Chair
provided similar testimony before the United States House of Representatives Subcommittee on Financial
Services and General Government Committee on Appropriations on April 15, 2015, and before the United States
Senate Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government Committee on Appropriations on May 5,
2015.
2

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of the Investor Advocate, Report on Objectives Fiscal Year
2015.

120

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Chair White
September 30, 2015
Page 4



improving the examination workflow system and risk assessment and surveillance tools;
and



establishing an Enterprise Data Warehouse.

The SEC Chair also testified that the Division of Enforcement continues to achieve significant
results, filing 755 enforcement actions and obtaining orders for more than $4.16 billion in
disgorgement and penalties in FY 2014. Collecting disgorgement and penalty amounts from
securities violators and returning monies to harmed investors helps protect investors and foster
and enforce compliance with Federal securities laws. To assess the SEC’s policies,
procedures, and efforts for (1) collecting disgorgement and penalty funds and accurately and
timely distributing those funds to harmed investors, and (2) overseeing the work of third party
entities used in the distribution process, we conducted an audit of the Division of
Enforcement’s Office of Collections and Office of Distributions (OD) controls over collections
and distributions. In our report titled Improvements Needed in the Division of Enforcement’s
Oversight of Fund Administrators, Report No. 531, issued September 30, 2015, we reported
that OD’s oversight of fund administrators could be improved to more fully align with GAO’s
Standards for Internal Control in the Federal Government. Specifically, we determined that
some distribution plans required fund administrators to provide payment files to Commission
staff for the staff’s review and authorization or approval before distributing funds. In response
to a draft of our report, Division of Enforcement officials stated that fund administrators have
the responsibility to submit accurate payment files. However, OD did not clearly document in
its policies and procedures (1) the steps it takes to review and accept payment files submitted
by fund administrators, and (2) its responsibilities for fund administrator oversight generally.
Policies and procedures should address risks identified and, based on those risks, establish
controls designed to ensure Federal requirements and the goals and objectives of the agency
are met. OD officials told us about a limited number of instances, some of which occurred
before fiscal year 2010, in which fund administrators submitted and OD accepted inaccurate
payment files and at least one case where a fund administrator made inaccurate payments.
According to OD officials, corrective payments were made to the underpaid investors in that
case. However, the SEC’s oversight of fund administrators could be improved by fully
assessing and documenting the risks involved when using fund administrators and updating
policies and procedures for fund administrator oversight. We made one related
recommendation for corrective action. Management concurred with the recommendation,
which will be closed upon completion and verification of corrective action.
For FY 2016, we are planning audit work to assess the SEC’s approaches for addressing
newly expanded responsibilities; improving investor access to material information; effectively
targeting and monitoring market participants based on risk and available resources;
establishing an effective approach to modernizing its IT infrastructure; and complying with the
requirements governing reviews of rules filed by self-regulatory organizations.
Information Security
The SEC generates and collects commercially valuable, market-sensitive, proprietary, and
other nonpublic information. To accomplish the SEC’s mission, the agency shares sensitive
information internally among its divisions and offices and externally with the regulated
community and financial regulators. During FY 2015, we identified and assessed weaknesses
in the agency’s controls over information security.

121

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Chair White
September 30, 2015
Page 5

For example, we completed our FY 2014 evaluation of the effectiveness of the SEC’s
information security programs and practices and whether the SEC’s Office of Information
Technology (OIT) has policies, procedures, and practices consistent with Federal Information
Security Management Act (FISMA) requirements (Federal Information Security Management
Act: Fiscal Year 2014 Evaluation, Report No. 529, issued February 5, 2015). Overall, we
found that OIT has made progress in key areas of information security, including the agency’s
management of its continuous monitoring controls, configuration controls, and identity and
access controls. However, systems in production did not always have a current authorization
to operate, and the SEC’s security awareness training did not include the required insider
threat component. In addition, OIT had not addressed several areas of potential risk identified
in prior FISMA evaluations, including (1) failure to implement personal identity verification
cards for logical access to the maximum extent practicable, (2) a lack of full implementation of
continuous monitoring, (3) a lack of multi-factor authentication for external systems,
(4) outdated procedures and inconsistencies with policy, and (5) improper review of user
accounts. We also determined that the system security assessment may not be
comprehensive or adequately address system and subsystem risks for one of the SEC’s
mission critical systems and that OIT did not take action to address some known vulnerabilities
(recorded on plan of action and milestone documents) within established timeframes. In some
cases, these items—which represent both moderate and low risk—have been open for 2 to
6 years beyond established remediation dates. The agency is taking steps to address our
concerns and we have begun our FY 2015 audit of the SEC’s compliance with FISMA.
In addition, in our audit report titled Improvements Needed in the Division of Enforcement’s
Oversight of Fund Administrators, Report No. 531, issued September 30, 2015, we reported
that the SEC did not ensure third party fund administrators’ information security was assessed,
as required by the E-Government Act, including FISMA, and certain agency policies and
requirements. The SEC uses fund administrators to distribute disgorgement and penalty
amounts to harmed investors. The fund administrators collect on the SEC’s behalf harmed
investors’ personally identifiable information (PII), including investors’ names, addresses, dates
of birth, social security numbers, and bank information. Despite Federal and agency
requirements to assess fund administrator’s information security, the agency did not ensure
that it completed required security assessments and privacy impact assessments of fund
administrators’ IT environments and did not obtain approval from an authorizing official before
using the fund administrators. In addition, the fund administrators were required to
demonstrate compliance with security and privacy regulations by providing an independent
third party assessment of compliance. Although the SEC has obtained third party
assessments of fund administrators’ data security controls for all nine fund administrators
currently in use, the SEC did not receive or thoroughly review the assessments before allowing
the fund administrators into the agency’s pool of administrators. As a result, the SEC lacks
assurance that fund administrators are adequately protecting the confidentiality, integrity, and
availability of investors’ PII collected and maintained on behalf of the agency in the course of
the distribution process. OIT has developed a plan to complete required assessments of all
nine fund administrators by December 31, 2015 – more than 2 years after the SEC selected
the fund administrators for the SEC’s pool. We made two related recommendations for
corrective action. Management concurred with the recommendations and plans to complete
the required assessments of all nine fund administrators by December 31, 2015.
In FY 2015, the OIG also initiated or completed several investigations related to information
security. For example, we investigated an allegation that an SEC contractor knowingly and

122

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Chair White
September 30, 2015
Page 6

willfully misused his SEC network administrative privileges to access visitor logs to obtain
information about competitors to a contract for which the contractor’s employer was competing.
Our investigation confirmed that the contractor misused his administrative privileges as alleged
and had provided the identities of the competitors to his employer. However, we found no
evidence that the contractor’s improper disclosure affected the procurement process for the
contract, which was awarded to a competitor of the contractor’s employer. We reported the
results of the investigation to SEC management for informational purposes and appropriate
consideration in the future.
We also conducted at least three investigations that disclosed evidence that SEC employees
sent PII and/or other nonpublic information to unsecure, personal e-mail accounts, in violation
of SEC policy. However, we did not find evidence that employees disseminated PII to
unauthorized persons or used the information for unauthorized purposes. We referred the
results of our investigations to SEC management for any action deemed appropriate.
In its February 2015 biennial update to its list of high-risk areas needing attention by Congress
and the executive branch, GAO expanded a prior high-risk area to include protecting the
privacy of PII.3 Specifically, GAO stated that advances in technology which have dramatically
enhanced the ability of both government and private sector entities to collect and process
extensive amounts of PII pose challenges to ensuring the privacy of such information.
Moreover, because Federal agencies and private companies collect detailed information about
the activities of individuals and the number of reported security incidents involving PII at
Federal agencies has increased dramatically in recent years, GAO raised concerns about the
potential for significant erosion of personal privacy.
Finally, as part of its audit of the SEC’s FY 2014 financial statements, GAO reported in
November 2014 that the SEC sufficiently addressed the deficiencies in its information security
identified in FY 2013 such that GAO no longer considers the remaining control deficiencies in
this area, individually or collectively, to represent a significant deficiency as of September 30,
2014.4 However, in its accompanying April 2015 report, “Management Report: Improvements
Needed in SEC’s Internal Controls and Accounting Procedures,” GAO stated:
During our fiscal year 2014 audit, we found that SEC did not consistently
implement effective internal controls over its information systems operations,
including those affecting financial systems that support financial reporting.
Weaknesses in information security controls, as identified, relate to the
maintenance and monitoring of SEC configuration baseline standards and
implementation of security configurations based on these standards in the areas
of password settings and network services.5
3

U.S. Government Accountability Office, High-Risk Series An Update, GAO-15-290 (February 2015). Citing
evolving high-risk issues since its last high-risk update in 2013, GAO expanded the high-risk area titled “Ensuring
the Security of Federal Information Systems and Cyber Critical Infrastructure” to include the federal government’s
protection of PII. The new high-risk area is called “Ensuring the Security of Federal Information Systems and
Cyber Critical Infrastructure and Protecting Personally Identifiable Information (PII).”
4

U.S. Government Accountability Office, Financial Audit: Securities and Exchange Commission’s Fiscal Years
2014 and 2013 Financial Statements, GAO-15-166R (November 17, 2014).
5

U.S. Government Accountability Office, Management Report: Improvements Needed in SEC’s Internal Controls
and Accounting Procedures, GAO-15-387R (April 30, 2015).

123

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Chair White
September 30, 2015
Page 7

Based on observations from prior work and the expansion of GAO’s high-risk areas to include
protecting the privacy of PII, in FY 2016, we will continue to assess the SEC’s information
security program, including cyber security and the protection of PII. We will leverage newly
hired IT audit and investigative staff in these efforts.
Acquisition Management
The SEC has made progress in improving its acquisitions policies and procedures; however,
the OIG continues to find improvements the SEC can make in the area of contract
management. For example, during our Audit of the SEC’s Contracting Officer’s
Representative Program, Report No. 530, issued September 18, 2015, we observed that
Contracting Officer’s Representatives (CORs) did not always perform contract monitoring
duties consistently and as required. Specifically, CORs did not always (1) review and process
contractor invoices in a timely manner; (2) evaluate contractor performance within the
prescribed timeframe; or (3) use the SEC’s Contractor Time Management System to track
certain contractor labor hours. Due, in part, to untimely invoice processing, the SEC incurred
Prompt Payment Act interest penalties of nearly $10,000 for 2013 through 2014. In addition,
contractor performance evaluations were not available in a timely manner for use by the SEC
and other Federal agencies when making contracting decisions. Finally, failure to use the
Contractor Time Management System when appropriate reduces the SEC’s contract oversight
and increases its risk of making improper payments to contractors. We also found that 151
SEC CORs who filed required financial disclosure reports in 2012, 2013, and 2014 filed the
reports late, and a small number of CORs did not file the reports each year. Additionally, some
CORs monitored SEC contracts without first disclosing their financial interests. We made six
recommendations to improve compliance with applicable requirements, address excessive
COR workload, and strengthen controls over COR financial disclosures. The agency
concurred with our recommendations for corrective action and is developing a corrective action
plan.
Also, during an audit support engagement intended to assist the OIG in planning an audit of
the SEC’s Tips, Complaints, and Referrals Intake and Resolution System (TCR system), we
identified various factors, including unacceptable contractor performance and a lack of
adequate contractor and government resources to timely address concerns, that led to
schedule delays and cost increases in the agency’s project to (1) elicit requirements,
(2) design, and (3) deploy a redesigned TCR system. Notwithstanding these issues, agency
officials report that the current TCR system is functioning and meeting the SEC’s needs. The
Tips, Complaints, and Referrals Oversight Board—a decision-making body composed of
senior officers from across the agency—has managed the project, and the SEC has taken
action to address contractor performance, including issuing the vendor a cure notice, requiring
a corrective action plan, and converting contract milestones from time and materials to firm
fixed price. However, as of May 20, 2015, the contract value had increased by nearly
$4 million (from about $7.2 million to about $11.0 million) and the project was at least
10 months behind schedule. We commend the SEC for addressing the project’s development
delays and minimizing the agency’s financial risk in the event of continued contractor nonperformance. Doing so increases the chances of obtaining a redesigned TCR system that fully
meets the agency’s needs. However, as of May 20, 2015, the SEC had not accepted the
redesigned TCR system and a final user acceptance date had not been established, resulting
in uncertainty in the timeframe for implementing the redesigned TCR system. We reported our
observations to management and requested updated information (received on May 27, 2015)

124

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Chair White
September 30, 2015
Page 8

to help us determine whether further action by the OIG is warranted (Final Management Letter:
Observations Noted During TCR System Audit Support Engagement, issued on May 20,
2015).
In February 2015, GAO included “Improving the Management of Information Technology (IT)
Acquisitions and Operations” as a new high-risk area needing attention by Congress and the
executive branch.6 Specifically, GAO stated:
Congress has passed legislation and the administration has undertaken
numerous initiatives to better manage IT investments. Nonetheless, federal IT
investments too frequently fail to be completed or incur cost overruns and
schedule slippages while contributing little to mission-related outcomes. GAO
has found that the federal government spent billions of dollars on failed and
poorly performing IT investments which often suffered from ineffective
management, such as project planning, requirements definition, and program
oversight and governance.
Based on (1) observations from our prior work, (2) GAO’s recognition of IT acquisition as a
new high-risk area across the executive branch, and (3) the magnitude and criticality of the
SEC’s ongoing and planned IT modernization efforts, we plan to perform work in FY 2016 to
assess the SEC’s progress in improving its acquisitions management broadly and its IT
acquisitions specifically. We will leverage newly hired IT audit and investigative staff in these
efforts.
Financial Management
GAO’s audits of the FY 2014 and FY 2013 financial statements of the SEC and the Investor
Protection Fund (IPF) found that the SEC’s and the IPF’s financial statements were presented
fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.7 GAO reported that, although certain internal controls could be improved, the SEC
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting for the
SEC and the IPF as of September 30, 2014, based on criteria established under the Federal
Managers’ Financial Integrity Act.
However, during GAO’s FY 2014 audit, GAO identified continuing and new deficiencies in the
SEC’s internal controls over disgorgement and penalty transactions that constituted a
significant deficiency in the SEC’s internal control over financial reporting.8 GAO has reported
deficiencies in the SEC’s controls over disgorgement and penalty transactions in prior years.
In FY 2013, GAO concluded that these deficiencies did not individually or collectively represent
a material weakness or significant deficiency but warranted SEC management’s attention.
According to GAO, the SEC took action to address some of these deficiencies; however,
GAO’s testing identified new deficiencies in accounting for disgorgement and penalty
transactions, which, combined with the remaining control deficiencies from prior audits, are
6

U.S. Government Accountability Office, High-Risk Series An Update, GAO-15-290 (February 2015).

7

U.S. Government Accountability Office, Financial Audit: Securities and Exchange Commission’s Fiscal Years
2014 and 2013 Financial Statements, GAO-15-166R (November 17, 2014).
8

This significant deficiency pertained to the SEC’s overall financial reporting but not that of the IPF because the
IPF does not include disgorgement and penalty transactions.

125

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Chair White
September 30, 2015
Page 9

important enough to merit the attention of those charged with governance of the SEC.
According to GAO, these continuing and new deficiencies related to:


procedures for ensuring funds availability before transferring disgorgement and penaltyrelated funds to the U.S. Treasury;



monitoring of disgorgement and penalty-related cases filed in courts to ensure all cases
that should be recorded as receivables are timely identified;



safeguarding controls at service providers that collect SEC cash receipts, including
payments from violators for disgorgement, penalties, and related interest on the SEC’s
behalf; and



controls to timely and accurately record disgorgement and penalty transactions in the
SEC’s general ledger, and timely detect and correct any errors.9

In addition to this significant deficiency, in April 2015, GAO reported other new deficiencies in
the SEC’s internal control over financial reporting. While not considered to be material
weaknesses or significant deficiencies, either individually or collectively, according to GAO
these deficiencies warrant SEC management’s attention. The deficiencies relate to the
following:


reinvestment of disgorgement funds,



maintaining ongoing accuracy of property and equipment inventory records,



documenting disposal of property and equipment,



ensuring existence of capitalized bulk purchases,



identifying and summarizing uncorrected misstatements, and



information security.

GAO made 13 new recommendations to address these deficiencies in the SEC’s controls over
financial reporting and noted that the SEC took action to fully address 14 of 25 prior years’
recommendations that remained open at the beginning of the FY 2014 audit. Consequently,
the SEC has 24 open recommendations that need to be addressed—the 11 prior
recommendations as well as the 13 new ones from GAO’s April 2015 report.10 Corrective
action is in progress for all outstanding recommendations. We will continue to monitor the
SEC’s financial management and reporting controls and actions to address open
recommendations.

9

U.S. Government Accountability Office, Financial Audit: Securities and Exchange Commission’s Fiscal Years
2014 and 2013 Financial Statements, GAO-15-166R (November 17, 2014).
10

U.S. Government Accountability Office, Management Report: Improvements Needed in SEC’s Internal Controls
and Accounting Procedures, GAO-15-387R (April 30, 2015).

126

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Chair White
September 30, 2015
Page 10

Human Capital Management
As an employer, the SEC seeks to hire and retain a skilled and diverse workforce, and to
ensure that all decisions affecting employees and applicants are fair and ethical. Attracting,
engaging, and retaining a technically proficient and diverse workforce is one of the agency’s
stated strategic objectives.11 However, human capital management remains a challenge.
Section 342 of the Dodd-Frank Act required specific Federal financial agencies, including the
SEC, to establish, by January 21, 2011, an Office of Minority and Women Inclusion (OMWI),
responsible for matters relating to diversity in management, employment, and business
activities. At the request of the U. S. House of Representatives Committee on Financial
Services, we completed the Audit of the Representation of Minorities and Women in the SEC’s
Workforce, Report No. 528, November 20, 2014, to help identify factors that may impact the
SEC’s ability to increase the representation of minorities and women at the SEC, in general,
and in senior management positions, in particular. We assessed diversity at the SEC and
compared the agency’s workforce between FY 2011 and FY 2013 to U.S. civilian labor force,
Federal, and securities industry workforce data. We reported that the SEC has made efforts to
promote diversity. However, some minority groups and women (1) were underrepresented in
the SEC workforce, (2) received relatively fewer and smaller cash awards and bonuses, (3)
experienced statistically significant lower performance management and recognition scores,
and (4) filed equal employment opportunity complaints at rates higher than their percentage of
the workforce. These conditions may have occurred or may not have been remedied, in part,
because the Office of Equal Employment Opportunity did not take required initial steps to
identify areas where barriers may operate to exclude certain groups. Therefore, the SEC did
not examine, eliminate, or modify, where appropriate, policies, practices, or procedures that
create barriers to equal opportunity. As a result, the SEC lacks assurance that it has
uncovered, examined, and removed barriers to equal participation at all levels of its workforce.
We also found that OMWI lacks a systematic and comprehensive method of evaluating the
effectiveness of its programs and diversity efforts. Agency management indicated that it
expects an ongoing barrier analysis to be completed in early October 2015. The agency has
sufficiently addressed two of our five recommendations for corrective action and is taking steps
to address the remaining three recommendations.
In addition, in 2014, we reported that GAO assessed the SEC’s organizational culture, its
personnel management challenges, and its efforts to address those challenges. In its July
2013 report,12 GAO made seven recommendations to improve the SEC’s personnel
management, including developing comprehensive workforce plans. 13 In June 2014, the Office
of Personnel Management found that the SEC still did not have a comprehensive workforce
plan, although the agency had a workforce planning process conducted by the senior
executive within each office. In its 2014 Agency Financial Report, the SEC stated that it is
developing a comprehensive workforce plan, including a plan to assist the agency in identifying
future leaders—an initial building block for the workforce plan. The agency further reported
that additional steps were being taken in FY 2015 to finalize SEC-wide strategic initiatives and
11

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission Strategic Plan, Fiscal Years 2014 – 2018.

12

U.S. Government Accountability Office, Securities and Exchange Commission Improving Personnel
Management Is Critical for Agency’s Effectiveness, GAO-13-621 (July 2013).
13

GAO first recommended that the SEC develop such a plan in 2001. See GAO-01-947.

127

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Chair White
September 30, 2015
Page 11

incorporate all elements of effective workforce planning into the overall plan, to be completed
by the end of FY 2015. However, as of September 30, 2015, the SEC did not expect to
complete the comprehensive workforce plan until Spring 2016.
In FY 2016, we will continue to monitor the SEC’s implementation of corrective actions from
OIG, GAO, and OPM reviews and the steps taken to improve the agency’s human capital
management, including its efforts to hire and retain a skilled and diverse workforce.

128

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Management’s Response to Inspector General’s Statement

November 10, 2015
November 10, 2015

Mr. Carl W. Hoecker
Inspector General
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, D.C. 20549
Dear Mr. Hoecker:
Thank you for your “Statement on the SEC’s Management and Performance Challenges,”
issued on September 30, 2015. We remain committed to enhancing the financial and operational
effectiveness of the SEC and appreciate the Office of Inspector General’s role in the effort.
Below is an overview of the actions—taken and planned to be taken—to address each of the
challenges identified in your statement.
Regulatory Oversight
Management continues to address the regulatory challenges faced in the areas of budget,
technology and Enforcement operations in order to successfully meet the SEC’s mission.
Budgetary Resources
The SEC agrees with the assessment of the increasing size and complexity of the SEC’s
regulatory responsibilities. As we have indicated previously, the agency will not be able to
adequately handle its new and expanding responsibilities with the agency’s existing resource
levels. If the SEC does not receive additional resources, over time our ability to be the strong,
vigilant regulator that the nation’s investors expect and deserve will be diminished.
While the SEC has made critical enhancements, challenges remain in our efforts to
address the growing size and complexity of the securities markets and fulfill our broad mandates
and responsibilities. In recent years, those responsibilities have dramatically increased, with new
or expanded jurisdiction over securities-based derivatives, hedge fund and other private fund
advisers, credit rating agencies, municipal advisors, and clearing agencies, as well as a
requirement to implement and oversee a new regime for crowdfunding offerings, among other
changes. As the size and complexity of the entities in the SEC’s jurisdiction grows, the agency’s
need to hire industry experts and build out its technology becomes even more acute.
The President’s Budget Request for the SEC in FY 2016 seeks additional staff to allow
the SEC to accomplish several key and pressing priorities, including bolstering examination
coverage for investment advisers and other key areas; continuing the agency’s investments in the
technologies needed to keep pace with today’s high-tech, high-speed markets; strengthening our

129

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Mr. Carl Hoecker
Page 2
enforcement program’s efforts to detect, investigate, and prosecute wrongdoing; and enhancing
the agency’s oversight of the rapidly changing markets and ability to carry out its increased
regulatory responsibilities.
Technology Enhancements
Advanced data analytics are crucial to the SEC’s ability to analyze the complex and highvolume data generated by high frequency trading. OIT is continuing to develop and add value to
existing advanced data analytics capabilities and the underlying storage and compute
infrastructure. Additionally, OIT is supporting the Enforcement Division and Office of
Compliance Inspections and Examinations in developing a FedRAMP-certified, cloud
deployment of a High Performance Compute Infrastructure (HPCI) for “Big Data” analytics.
As part of SEC’s plans to modernize key information technology systems, the Electronic
Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) redesign project will use advanced
technology to reduce filer burden, improve communications, structure data to be more useful to
staff and investors, eliminate complexities and lower costs. The program has been working to
develop requirements for the re-designed system, in conjunction with an Executive Governance
Board and a Staff Advisory Committee. This year we will continue to work with senior SEC
officials to refine our requirements, strategic vision and priorities, and finalize a timeline for
delivering a modernized environment that will benefit filers, SEC reviewing staff, and investors
who rely on the data to make sound investment decisions.
The Enterprise Data Warehouse (EDW) is an organized central data repository that
allows enhanced analytical capabilities, predictive modeling, and strengthened governance of
data controls and quality standards. It is a critical step in combining disparate sources of data
from EDGAR filings, exam reports, investigations and external vendors. The EDW is being
implemented in phases. The first two phases have been completed, establishing the base
infrastructure, piloting platform projects, and provisioning data from select SEC mission critical
applications including TCR, TRENDS, HUB, EDGAR Enterprise Data Repository and Blue
Sheets. The next phase is underway and includes establishing unstructured data analytics,
enterprise search capabilities, data visualization, and enhancements to data integration and
quality assurance.
OIG Audit of Enforcement’s Controls over Collections and Distributions
Over the past five fiscal years, the Enforcement Division made significant improvements
designed to streamline the distribution of funds to harmed investors, and implemented significant
controls over those processes. These changes include the formation of a dedicated office, the
Office of Distributions, to centralize the handling of distributions and make the distribution
process more efficient. In addition, the Division created a comprehensive manual documenting
the policies and procedures for distribution activities, among other process and control
improvements. Because the SEC needs to rely on the work of third-party fund administrators,
the Office of Distributions routinely assesses possible risks associated with engaging third parties
to administer payments to harmed investors. Management will continue to consider risks and
review processes to make amendments as appropriate.

130

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Mr. Carl Hoecker
Page 3
Information Security
The Office of Information Technology (OIT) continues to take corrective actions on
issues identified during prior Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA)
evaluations. Specifically, OIT Operations has enabled the use of personal identity verification
(PIV) cards for logical access across the entire agency and is in the final stages of requiring their
use to the maximum extent practicable, supplementing other forms of multi-factor authentication
on external systems where needed. OIT Operations completed a project begun last year to
centralize account validation, ensuring proper review of user accounts.
To address the required insider threat training, OIT Security assisted the Office of
Personnel Security in offering training designed around the Presidential Memorandum on
National Insider Threat Policy and Minimum Standards for Executive Branch Insider Threat
Programs, issued on November 21, 2012. This training is considered “role based” and only for
personnel granted clearances to access classified national security information—a relatively
small number of people.
OIT Security continues to actively participate with the Department of Homeland Security
as part of their Continuous Diagnostics and Mitigation Program. As one of our most strategic
security programs, OIT Security has dedicated both federal and contractor resources to adhering
to the joint agency timeline leading to full implementation of continuous monitoring by
September 30, 2017. In addition, projects to aggressively review all system assessments and
authorizations, along with security policies and procedures, are in their final stages and are on
schedule to be completed by the end of the year.
OIT takes the monitoring and resolution of information system vulnerabilities and
weaknesses seriously, with active oversight by all levels of management. As outlined in OMB
Memorandum 04-25, FY 2004 Reporting Instructions for the Federal Information Security
Management Act, agency plan of action and milestones (POA&Ms) permit agency officials and
oversight authorities to identify when documented corrective actions are both timely and
untimely. In either circumstance, the POA&M has served its intended purpose and agency
managers can use the POA&M process to focus resources appropriately.
In support of the Division of Enforcement, OIT Security is on track to complete required
assessments of all nine fund administrators by December 31, 2015.
In response to the Government Accountability Office’s (GAO) audits of the financial
statements in FY 2013 and FY 2014, OIT completed numerous corrective actions to address all
but a small number of identified weaknesses. Those that remain are actively being addressed and
are expected to be remediated in the coming months. As noted in their reports on the financial
audit for 2014 and 2015, the GAO no longer considers the remaining control deficiencies in this
area, individually or collectively, to represent a significant deficiency.
OIT agrees with the GAO’s assessment that advances in technology have dramatically
enhanced the challenges to ensuring the privacy and security of PII at all federal agencies. The
recent incidents at the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and the Internal Revenue Service
serve to further highlight the need for continued vigilance as well as increased investment in the

131

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Mr. Carl Hoecker
Page 4
areas of information privacy and security. With the support of the Office of the Chief Operating
Officer, OIT Security’s privacy team established an online SEC Privacy Resource Center,
published eight privacy compliance reminders (PCR), with an additional seven PCRs to be
published in the agency’s SEC Today daily newsletter, and an active training campaign as part of
an effort to continuously raise privacy awareness.
Acquisition Management
I appreciate that your statement recognizes the significant improvements the SEC
continues to make in the acquisition management area. With respect to the agency’s Contracting
Officer’s Representative (COR) Program, the Office of Acquisitions (OA) and Office of Ethics
Counsel have implemented a more defined process for ensuring CORs file a confidential
financial disclosure report (OGE Form 450) within the allotted timeframe. In addition, training
materials have been updated to stress the importance of avoiding conflicts of interest, and all
certification letters now emphasize Form 450 filing.
On a monthly basis, OA plans to conduct refresher training for CORs on approving
contractor invoices within required timeframes, completing Contractor Performance Assessment
Reporting System evaluations in a timely manner, and using the agency’s Contractor Time
Management System for monitoring on-site contractor time and attendance when required by the
contract.
With respect to the issues you identified regarding certain aspects of the Tips, Complaints
and Referrals system (TCR) the relevant SEC officials report that the current TCR system is
functioning and meeting the agency’s needs. SEC management, of course, takes very seriously
the task of modernizing the TCR system and remains committed to making the requisite
improvements noted in the OIG’s management letter.
Financial Management
The annual audit by GAO, as included elsewhere in the Annual Financial Report, found
that the SEC maintained effective internal controls over financial reporting during FY 2015, with
no material weaknesses or significant deficiencies. The report indicates the SEC made progress
in remediating the one significant deficiency from the 2014 audit, in the area of disgorgements
and penalties. The SEC had worked diligently to address GAO’s recommendations in this highly
complex area. We reevaluated our business processes and bolstered controls related to the
timely recording of court judgments impacting the financial statements. In addition, we
developed the requirements for a new disgorgement and penalty sub-ledger system, and the
effort to implement the system will commence in FY 2016. This system is expected to improve
the effectiveness and efficiency of the accounting and financial reporting for disgorgements and
penalties by providing more comprehensive information in a more automated fashion.
In the FY 2014 audit, the GAO identified control deficiencies in SEC’s internal controls over
financial reporting that were not considered to be material weaknesses or significant deficiencies.

132

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Mr. Carl Hoecker
Page 5
The SEC made significant improvements to remediate these control deficiencies, as specified
below:
• Reinvestment of disgorgement funds: The SEC’s Office of Financial Management
(OFM) revised and implemented a procedure to monitor daily investment activities,
including identifying changes to investment balances as well as validating applicable
changes.
•

Maintaining ongoing accuracy of property and equipment inventory records: The SEC
updated its policies and procedures to better clarify roles and responsibilities with respect
to maintaining updated and accurate inventory records.

•

Documenting disposal of property and equipment: The SEC issued a new asset
management policy directive that better defines roles and responsibilities and enforces
accountability measures, and trained relevant staff on the new requirements.

•

Ensuring existence of capitalized bulk purchases: The SEC issued a new policy directive
to provide additional controls and further clarification of existing policies with respect to
bulk purchases.

•

Identifying and summarizing uncorrected misstatements: OFM tightened controls around
quarterly monitoring and reporting to detect and report any errors on a timely basis.

The SEC remains committed to upholding a strong control regime over its financial
reporting. While actively remediating deficiencies identified by GAO, we continue to monitor
all internal controls over financial reporting to self-assess and proactively address any control
weaknesses that may arise.
Human Capital Management
The SEC strives to enhance its performance through effective management of human
capital and by aligning human capital strategies with the agency’s mission, goals, and objectives.
The agency is committed to consistently attracting, hiring, developing, and retaining a highperforming and diverse workforce.
In response to the OIG’s assessment of diversity at the SEC, the Office of Minority and
Women Inclusion (OMWI) is developing policies and procedures using GAO’s “Standards for
Internal Control in the Federal Government” and “Performance Measurement and Evaluation”
literature. OMWI has already completed a “Guide to Performance Measurement and
Evaluation” to document its systematic and comprehensive methods to monitor and evaluate the
effectiveness of workforce diversity programmatic efforts. OMWI plans to complete additional
policies and procedures in 2016 using these same GAO publications.
The Office of Equal Employment Opportunity completed the barrier analysis in October
2015. A formal closure request, including evidence of completion of corrective actions, has been
provided to OIG staff.

133

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Mr. Carl Hoecker
Page 6
With respect to the agency’s workforce planning efforts, the Office of Human Resources
(OHR) has developed a comprehensive project plan to identify the timeframes for development
and implementation of the SEC’s workforce plan, including a succession plan. The project plan
has been provided to the GAO with timeframes for project milestone completion.
In addition, the SEC has entered into an Inter-agency Agreement (IAA) with OPM to
develop the SEC’s workforce plan. As part of this effort, OPM and OHR will assess the
competencies of the SEC’s four mission-critical occupations: accountants, attorneys,
economists, and securities and compliance examiners. The results of the competency assessment
will serve as the basis for a gap analysis and the follow-on work plan. OPM will begin execution
of the IAA in October 2015.
The workforce plan is expected to be completed in February 2016. Subsequently, OHR
will conduct periodic reviews to assess whether the plan aligns with current agency workforce
and succession planning efforts. OHR will continue implementing recommendations from all
oversight organizations.
****
I hope that the actions outlined in this letter demonstrate our commitment to
strengthening internal control and improving the agency’s performance. We look forward to
working with you to further address these challenges.
Sincerely,

Mary Jo White
Chair

134

•

OTHER INFORMATION

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Summary of Financial Statement Audit
and Management Assurances
TABLE 3.1
SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL STATEMENT AUDIT
Audit Opinion:

Unmodified

Restatement:

No
Beginning
Balance

Material Weaknesses

New

Resolved

Consolidated

Ending
Balance

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

—

—

—

—

—

Total Material Weaknesses

—

—

—

—

—

New

Resolved

Consolidated

Reassessed

Ending
Balance

TABLE 3.2
SUMMARY OF MANAGEMENT ASSURANCES
Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting (FMFIA § 2)
Statement of Assurance: Unqualified
Material Weaknesses

Beginning
Balance

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total Material Weaknesses

—

—

—

—

—

—

Beginning
Balance

New

Resolved

Consolidated

Reassessed

Ending
Balance

—

—

—

—

—

—

Effectiveness of Internal Control over Operations (FMFIA § 2)
Statement of Assurance: Unqualified
Material Weaknesses
Total Material Weaknesses

Conformance with Financial Management System Requirements (FMFIA § 4)
Statement of Assurance: Systems conform
Beginning
Balance

New

Resolved

Consolidated

Reassessed

Ending
Balance

Federal Financial Management System
Requirements

—

—

—

—

—

—

Total Non-Conformances

—

—

—

—

—

—

Non-Conformances

135

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Improper Payments Elimination and Recovery Act Reporting Details
The Improper Payments Information Act (IPIA) of 2002,
as amended by the Improper Payments Elimination and
Recovery Act (IPERA) of 2010 and Improper Payments
Elimination and Recovery Improvement Act (IPERIA) of
2012, requires agencies to review all programs and activities
they administer and identify those which may be susceptible
to significant erroneous payments. For all programs and
activities in which the risk of erroneous payments is
significant, agencies are to estimate the annual amount of
erroneous payments made in those programs. The Office
of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance provided in
Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements, and
Appendix C of Circular A-123, Management’s Responsibility
for Internal Control, require agencies to report detailed
information related to SEC’s Improper Payments Elimination
Program, which is outlined below.

Risk Assessment
In Fiscal Year (FY) 2015, the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) reviewed the programs and activities it
administers to identify those which may be susceptible to
significant erroneous payments. To perform its risk assessment, the SEC instituted a systematic method of reviewing
each program and activity by considering risk factors likely
to contribute to significant improper payments. The risk
assessment encompassed a review of existing data that
included the Government Accountability Office (GAO) and
the SEC Office of Inspector General (OIG) audit reports, prior
internal controls over financial reporting (ICFR) assessments
and the results of improper payments testing performed
in prior years. The risk assessment was performed for the
following programs:
•	 Vendor payments (includes travel and credit card
payments);
•	 Disgorgement and penalty distributions (made by
SEC to fund and tax administrators and directly to
harmed investors);
•	 Returned deposits of registration filing fees under
Section 6b of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections
13 and 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;

136

•	 Payroll and benefit payments (includes base pay,
overtime pay, and agency contributions to retirement
plans, health plans, and thrift savings plans); and
•	 Whistleblower payments.
Based on the historically low volume of improper payments
and the low risk of improper payments given the controls
and processes in place, the SEC determined that none of
its programs and activities are susceptible to significant
improper payments at or above the threshold levels set
by OMB. Significant erroneous payments are defined as
annual erroneous payments in the program exceeding both
$10 million and 1.5 percent of total program outlays, or
$100 million of improper payments if less than 1.5 percent of
total annual program outlays. In accordance with Appendix C
of Circular A-123, the SEC is not required to determine a
statistically valid estimate of erroneous payments or develop
a corrective action plan if the program is not susceptible to
significant improper payments.
In FYs 2007 and 2008, SEC’s testing of its largest programs
resulted in improper payment percentages that were well
below one-half percent and less than $30,000 for each
program. In FYs 2009 through 2014, the SEC performed a
risk assessment and transaction testing on a sample basis
for all programs and determined that its programs are not
susceptible to significant erroneous payments.
If the level of risk in each program is determined to be low
and baseline estimates have been established, the SEC is
only required to conduct a formal risk assessment every three
years unless the program experiences a significant change
in legislation and/or a significant increase in funding level.
The SEC will conduct a follow on review in FY 2016 of its
programs and activities to determine whether the programs
have experienced any significant changes in legislation or
funding levels. If so, the SEC will re-assess the programs’
risk susceptibility and make a statistically valid estimate of
erroneous payments for any programs determined to be
susceptible to significant erroneous payments.

OTHER INFORMATION

Recapture of Improper Payments
In FY 2015, the SEC did not administer any grant, benefit
or loan programs. Implementation of recapture auditing,
if determined to be cost-effective, would apply to vendor
payments, disgorgement and penalty distributions, refunds
of registration filing fee deposits, payroll, and whistleblower payments. Because the definition of payment in
the IPERA legislation means any payment or transfer of
Federal funds to any non-Federal person or entity, the
SEC is not required to review, and has not reviewed, intragovernmental transactions.
The SEC has determined that implementing a payment
recapture audit program for vendor payments, disgorgement and penalty distributions, refunds of registration filing
fee deposits, payroll, and whistleblower payments is not
cost-effective and the OMB was notified in September
2015. That is, the benefits or recaptured amounts associated with implementing and overseeing the program do
not exceed the costs, including staff time and payments
to contractors, of a payment recapture audit program.
In making this determination, the SEC considered its low
improper payment rate based on testing conducted over
the past eight years. For example, the SEC identified only
$449 of vendor overpayment in FY 2014 from statistical
sample testing under the IPIA. The SEC also considered
whether sophisticated software and other cost-efficient
matching techniques could be used to identify significant
overpayments at a low cost per overpayment, or if labor
intensive manual reviews of paper documentation would
be required. In addition, the SEC considered the availability

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

of tools to efficiently perform the payment recapture audit
and minimize payment recapture audit costs.
The SEC will continue to monitor its improper payments
across all programs and activities it administers and assess
whether implementing payment recapture audits for each
program is cost-effective. If the SEC determines, through
future risk assessments, that a program is susceptible to
significant improper payments and implementing a payment
recapture program may be cost-beneficial, the SEC will
implement a pilot payment recapture audit to gauge whether
such audits would be cost-effective on a larger scale.

Do Not Pay (DNP)
The DNP solution is a government-wide initiative mandated
by the IPERIA to screen payment recipients before a contract
award or payment is made, to eliminate payment errors
before they occur. The SEC, in coordination with its Federal
Shared Service Provider (FSSP) and the Do Not Pay Business
Center, has incorporated pre-award, pre-payment, and postpayment reviews into its existing business processes and
programs. In July 2015, the FSSP completed development
of Payment Automation Manager (PAM) format and started
fully utilizing the DNP Portal. During FY 2015, such processes
identified approximately 38 payments that required followup. Through further analysis, the SEC identified that each
matched recipient was indeed eligible for payment under
a Federal benefit program. The dollar amounts and the
number of payments reviewed for improper payments
utilizing the Do Not Pay system between October 1, 2014,
and September 30, 2015, are shown in Table 3.3 below.

TABLE 3.3
RESULTS OF THE DO NOT PAY INITIATIVE IN PREVENTING IMPROPER PAYMENTS (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

Number (#) of
Dollars ($) of
Payments Reviewed Payments Reviewed Number (#)
for Possible
for Possible
of Payments
Improper Payments Improper Payments
Stopped
Reviews with the Death
Master File Only
Reviews with Other Sources

7,552
7,552

$	213.37
$	213.37

0
0

Number (#) of
Dollars ($) of
Potential Improper Potential Improper
Dollars ($) Payments Reviewed Payments Reviewed
of Payments
and Determined
and Determined
Stopped
Accurate
Accurate
$	—
$	—

0
38

$	—
$	0.04

137

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

Civil Monetary Penalties Inflation Adjustment
The Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (FCPIA) requires agencies to periodically adjust civil penalties
for inflation if either the amount of the penalty or the maximum penalty is set by law. In addition, the President is required to
report certain information to Congress either annually or every five years. The FCPIA was amended by the Debt Collection
Improvement Act of 1996 (DCIA). The DCIA amended the FCPIA to require each Federal agency to adopt regulations at
least once every four years that adjust for inflation the maximum amount of the civil monetary penalties under the statutes
administered by the agency.
The SEC administers four statutes that provide for civil monetary penalties:
•	 The Securities Act of 1933;
•	 The Securities Exchange Act of 1934;
•	 The Investment Company Act of 1940; and
•	 The Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
The penalties are reviewed every four years. The notice of the most recent update, in 2013, was published in the Federal
Register, Volume 78, No. 43, on March 5, 2013 (78 FR 14181). The previous Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment
Act review and update was in March 2009; however, certain fees may be updated at other times in the normal course of
business.
U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Civil Monetary Penalties Inflation Adjustment
Year Penalty
Amount was Last
Adjusted

Maximum Penalty
Amount Pursuant
to Last Adjustment

2013 Adjusted
Maximum Penalty
Amount

For natural person

2010

$	7,500

$	7,500

For any other person

2010

75,000

80,000

For natural person/fraud

2010

75,000

80,000

For any other person/fraud

2010

375,000

400,000

For natural person/substantial losses
or risk of losses to others

2010

150,000

160,000

For any other person/substantial losses
or risk of losses to others

2010

725,000

775,000

For natural person

2009

7,500

7,500

For any other person

2009

75,000

80,000

For natural person/fraud

2009

75,000

80,000

For any other person/fraud

2009

375,000

400,000

For natural person/substantial losses
or risk of losses to others

2009

150,000

160,000

For any other person/substantial losses
or risk of losses to others

2009

725,000

775,000

U.S. Code Citation

Civil Monetary Penalty Description

Securities and Exchange Commission:

15 U.S.C. 77h-1(g)

15 U.S.C. 77t(d)

(continued on next page)

138

OTHER INFORMATION

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Civil Monetary Penalties Inflation Adjustment (continued)
U.S. Code Citation

Civil Monetary Penalty Description

Year Penalty
Amount was Last
Adjusted

Maximum Penalty
Amount Pursuant
to Last Adjustment

2013 Adjusted
Maximum Penalty
Amount

Securities and Exchange Commission:
15 U.S.C. 78ff(b)

Exchange Act/failure to file information documents,
reports

1996

110

210

15 U.S.C. 78ff(c)(1)(B)

Foreign Corrupt Practices – any issuer

2009

16,000

16,000

15 U.S.C. 78ff(c)(2)(B)

Foreign Corrupt Practices – any agent or
stockholder acting on behalf of issuer

2009

16,000

16,000

15 U.S.C. 78u-1(a)(3)

Insider Trading – controlling person

2009

1,425,000

1,525,000

For natural person

2009

7,500

7,500

For any other person

2009

75,000

80,000

For natural person/fraud

2009

75,000

80,000

For any other person/fraud

2009

375,000

400,000

For natural person/substantial losses
to others/gains to self

2009

150,000

160,000

For any other person/substantial losses
to others/gain to self

2009

725,000

775,000

For natural person

2009

7,500

7,500

For any other person

2009

75,000

80,000

For natural person/fraud

2009

75,000

80,000

For any other person/fraud

2009

375,000

400,000

For natural person/substantial losses
or risk of losses to others

2009

150,000

160,000

For any other person/substantial losses
or risk of losses to others

2009

725,000

775,000

For natural person

2009

7,500

7,500

For any other person

2009

75,000

80,000

For natural person/fraud

2009

75,000

80,000

For any other person/fraud

2009

375,000

400,000

For natural person/substantial losses
to others/gains to self

2009

150,000

160,000

For any other person/substantial losses
to others/gain to self

2009

725,000

775,000

15 U.S.C. 78u-2

15 U.S.C. 78u(d)(3)

15 U.S.C. 80a-9(d)

(continued on next page)

139

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

OTHER INFORMATION

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Civil Monetary Penalties Inflation Adjustment (continued)
U.S. Code Citation

Civil Monetary Penalty Description

Year Penalty
Amount was Last
Adjusted

Maximum Penalty
Amount Pursuant
to Last Adjustment

2013 Adjusted
Maximum Penalty
Amount

Securities and Exchange Commission:

15 U.S.C. 80a-41(e)

15 U.S.C. 80b-3(i)

15 U.S.C. 80b-9(e)

15 U.S.C. 7215(c)(4)(D)(i)

15 U.S.C. 7215(c)(4)(D)(ii)

140

For natural person

2009

7,500

7,500

For any other person

2009

75,000

80,000

For natural person/fraud

2009

75,000

80,000

For any other person/fraud

2009

375,000

400,000

For natural person/substantial losses
or risk of losses to others

2009

150,000

160,000

For any other person/substantial losses
or risk of losses to others

2009

725,000

775,000

For natural person

2009

7,500

7,500

For any other person

2009

75,000

80,000

For natural person/fraud

2009

75,000

80,000

For any other person/fraud

2009

375,000

400,000

For natural person/substantial losses
to others/gains to self

2009

150,000

160,000

For any other person/substantial losses
to others/gain to self

2009

725,000

775,000

For natural person

2009

7,500

7,500

For any other person

2009

75,000

80,000

For natural person/fraud

2009

75,000

80,000

For any other person/fraud

2009

375,000

400,000

For natural person/substantial losses
or risk of losses to others

2009

150,000

160,000

For any other person/substantial losses
or risk of losses to others

2009

725,000

775,000

For natural person

2009

120,000

130,000

For any other person

2009

2,375,000

2,525,000

For natural person

2009

900,000

950,000

For any other person

2009

17,800,000

18,925,000

Appendices
APPENDIX A: Chair and Commissioners
Provides biographies of the presidentially appointed Chair and Commissioners.

APPENDIX B: Major Enforcement Cases
Outlines the major enforcement cases of FY 2015.

APPENDIX C: SEC Divisions and Offices
Provides contact information for the SEC’s divisions and offices.

APPENDIX D: Glossary of Selected Terms
Definitions provided of technical terms used throughout the report.

APPENDIX E: Acronyms
Defines acronyms cited in the report. Acronyms are listed in alphabetical order.

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Appendix A: Chair and Commissioners
Mary Jo White
CHAIR
Mary Jo White was sworn in
as the 31st Chair of the SEC
on April 10, 2013. She was
nominated to be SEC Chair
by President Barack Obama
on February 7, 2013, and
confirmed by the U.S. Senate
on April 8, 2013.
Chair White arrived at the SEC
with decades of experience
as a federal prosecutor and
securities lawyer. As the U.S.
Attorney for the Southern District of New York from 1993 to
2002, she specialized in prosecuting complex securities and
financial institution frauds and international terrorism cases.
Under her leadership, the office earned convictions against the
terrorists responsible for the 1993 bombing of the World Trade
Center and the bombings of American embassies in Africa. She
is the only woman to hold the top position in the 200-year-plus
history of that office.
Prior to becoming the U.S. Attorney for the Southern District
of New York, Chair White served as the First Assistant U.S.
Attorney and later Acting U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District
of New York from 1990 to 1993. She previously served as an
Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York
from 1978 to 1981 and became Chief Appellate Attorney of
the Criminal Division.

142

After leaving her U.S. Attorney post, Chair White became chair
of the litigation department at Debevoise & Plimpton in New
York, where she led a team of more than 200 lawyers. Chair
White previously was a litigation partner at the firm from 1983
to 1990 and worked as an associate from 1976 to 1978.
Chair White earned her undergraduate degree, Phi Beta
Kappa, from William & Mary in 1970, and her master’s degree
in psychology from The New School for Social Research in 1971.
She earned her law degree in 1974 at Columbia Law School,
where she was an officer of the Law Review. She served as a
law clerk to the Honorable Marvin E. Frankel of the U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York.
Chair White has won numerous awards in recognition of
her outstanding work both as a prosecutor and a securities
lawyer. The 2012 Chambers USA Women in Law Awards
named her Regulatory Lawyer of the Year. Among other honors
she has received are the Margaret Brent Women Lawyers of
Achievement Award, the George W. Bush Award for Excellence
in Counterterrorism, the Sandra Day O’Connor Award for
Distinction in Public Service, and the “Women of Power and
Influence Award” given by the National Organization for Women.
Chair White is a fellow in the American College of Trial Lawyers
and the International College of Trial Lawyers. She also has
served as a director of The NASDAQ Stock Exchange and on
its executive, audit, and policy committees. Chair White is a
member of the Council on Foreign Relations.

APPENDICES

Luis A. Aguilar

Daniel M. Gallagher

COMMISSIONER

COMMISSIONER

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Luis A. Aguilar has been a
Commissioner at the U.S.
Securities and Exchange
Commission since July 31,
2008. He was appointed by
President George W. Bush
and was reappointed by
President Barack Obama.

Commissioner Gallagher was
confirmed by the Senate
on October 21, 2011, and
returned to the Securities
and Exchange Commission,
where he had previously
served, on November 7,
2011.

Prior to his appointment, his
practice included matters
pertaining to general corporate and business law, international transactions, investment
companies and investment advisers, securities law, and
corporate finance.

Commissioner Gallagher was
on the staff of the SEC beginning in January 2006, when
he served as a counsel to SEC Commissioner Paul S. Atkins
and later as a counsel to SEC Chairman Christopher Cox. He
worked primarily on major matters before the Commission
involving the Division of Trading and Markets and the Division
of Enforcement.

Commissioner Aguilar represents the Commission as its
liaison to both the North American Securities Administrators
Association and to the Council of Securities Regulators of
the Americas.
Commissioner Aguilar has received various honors and awards,
including: recipient of Honorary Doctor of Public Service,
awarded by Georgia Southern University (2013); recipient of
the Atlanta Falcons “2012 NFL Hispanic Heritage Leadership
Award” (2012); named by Poder.Hispanic Magazine as one
of the “100 Most Influential Hispanics in the Nation” (2011);
named by Latino Leaders Magazine as one of the “Top 101
Most Influential Latinos in the United States” (2009 through
2012); named to the NACD Directorship 100, the Who’s Who
of the Boardroom (2009 through 2015); recipient of The Center
for Accounting Ethics, Governance, and the Public Interest
“Accounting in the Public Interest Award” (2010); and listed
in Best Lawyers in America (2005 through 2008).
He is a graduate of the University of Georgia School of Law,
and also received a master of laws degree in taxation from
Emory University.
Commissioner Aguilar serves as sponsor of the SEC’s Hispanic
and Latino Opportunity, Leadership, and Advocacy Committee,
the African American Council, and the Caribbean American
Heritage Committee.

He joined the Division of Trading and Markets as a Deputy
Director in 2008, where he played a key role in the SEC’s
response to the financial crisis and other significant issues
before the Commission, including those involving credit rating
agencies and credit default swaps. He served as an Acting
Director of the Trading and Markets Division from April 2009
to January 2010, after which he left the agency to become a
partner in the Washington, DC office of WilmerHale.
Prior to his initial SEC service, Commissioner Gallagher was
the General Counsel and Senior Vice President of Fiserv
Securities, Inc., where he was responsible for managing
all of the firm’s legal and regulatory matters. Commissioner
Gallagher began his career in private practice, advising clients
on broker-dealer regulatory issues and representing clients
in SEC and SRO enforcement proceedings.
Commissioner Gallagher earned his J.D. degree, magna cum
laude, from the Catholic University of America, where he was
a member of the law review. He graduated from Georgetown
University with a B.A. degree in English.

143

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Kara M. Stein

Michael S. Piwowar

COMMISSIONER

COMMISSIONER
Kara M. Stein was appointed by
President Barack Obama to the
U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and was sworn in
on August 9, 2013.

Ms. Stein joined the
Commission after serving as
Legal Counsel and Senior
Policy Advisor for securities and banking matters to
Senator Jack Reed. From 2009
to 2013, she was Staff Director of the Securities, Insurance,
and Investment Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs. During that time, Ms.
Stein played an integral role in drafting and negotiating significant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act.
As Staff Director for the Senate Banking Subcommittee of primary
jurisdiction over the SEC, Ms. Stein also organized and participated in over twenty hearings on such issues as the:

•	 evolution of market microstructure,
•	 regulation of exchange traded products,
•	 state of the securitization markets,
•	 risks to investors in capital raising processes,
including through public offerings,
•	 role of the accounting profession in preventing
another financial crisis,
•	 establishment of swap execution facilities, and
•	 role of the tri-party repurchase markets in the financial
marketplace.
Ms. Stein was Legal Counsel and Senior Policy Advisor to
Senator Reed from 2007 to 2009 and served as both the
Majority and Minority Staff Director on the Banking Committee’s
Subcommittee on Housing and Transportation from 2001 to
2006. She served as Legal Counsel to Senator Reed from
1999 to 2000, following two years as a Legislative Assistant
to Senator Chris Dodd.
Before working on Capitol Hill, Ms. Stein was an associate at
the law firm of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, a Skadden Public
Interest Fellow, an Advocacy Fellow with the Georgetown
University Law Center, and an assistant professor with the
University of Dayton School of Law.
Ms. Stein received her B.A. from Yale College and J.D. from
Yale Law School.
144

Michael S. Piwowar was
appointed by President
Barack Obama to the U.S.
Securities and Exchange
Commission and was sworn
in on August 15, 2013.
Most recently, Dr. Piwowar
was the Republican chief
economist for the U.S.
Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs under Senators Mike Crapo and Richard
Shelby. He was the lead Republican economist on the four
SEC-related titles of the Dodd-Frank Act and the JOBS
Act. Dr. Piwowar also worked on a number of important
SEC-related oversight issues under the jurisdiction of the
Committee.
During the financial crisis and its immediate aftermath, Dr.
Piwowar served in a one-year fixed-term position at the White
House as a senior economist at the President’s Council of
Economic Advisers (CEA) in both the George W. Bush and
Barack Obama Administrations. While at the CEA, he also
served as a staff economist for the Financial Regulatory
Reform Working Group of the President’s Economic Recovery
Advisory Board (PERAB). Before joining the White House, Dr.
Piwowar worked as a Principal at the Securities Litigation
and Consulting Group (SLCG).
Dr. Piwowar’s first tenure at the SEC was in the Office of
Economic Analysis (now called the Division of Economic and
Risk Analysis) as a visiting academic scholar on leave from
Iowa State University and as a senior financial economist.
Dr. Piwowar was an assistant professor of finance at Iowa
State University where he focused his research on market
microstructure and taught undergraduate and graduate
courses in corporate finance and investments. He published
a number of articles in leading academic publications and
received several teaching and research awards.
Dr. Piwowar received a B.A. in Foreign Service and
International Politics from the Pennsylvania State University,
an M.B.A. from Georgetown University, and a Ph.D. in
Finance from the Pennsylvania State University.

APPENDICES

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Appendix B: Major Enforcement Cases
Introduction
The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC)
Division of Enforcement (Enforcement), the SEC’s largest
division, investigates potential violations of the Federal
securities laws and files civil charges in Federal district court
and administrative proceedings (APs). Each year, the SEC
brings hundreds of civil enforcement actions against individuals and entities that violate the Federal securities laws.
Through these enforcement efforts, the SEC stops fraud;
obtains sanctions such as penalties, disgorgement of illgotten gains, and industry bars; and returns funds to harmed
investors. In Fiscal Year (FY) 2015, Enforcement leveraged
in house expertise to bring a significant number of cuttingedge and first-of-their-kind actions in key areas, such as
market structure, financial reporting and accounting fraud,
microcap fraud, enforcement of Federal anti-bribery laws,
and the investment adviser and broker-dealer community.
This section highlights some of the significant enforcement
cases filed in FY 2015. For further information on selected
enforcement cases, please see “Litigation Releases” at
www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases.shtml.

Actions Related to Market Structure,
Exchanges, and Broker-Dealers
Actions involving market structure, exchanges, and brokerdealers were a priority for Enforcement during FY 2015.
These actions help to ensure that our markets continue to
operate fairly and efficiently to promote capital formation
while protecting investors.
In December 2014, June 2015 and September 2015, the
SEC instituted three settled enforcement proceedings for
violations of the market access rule. The rule, adopted in
2010 as Rule 15c3-5, requires firms to have adequate risk
controls in place before providing customers with access
to the market. In the first proceeding, the SEC penalized

Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC for violating the market access rule
when it failed to uphold credit limits for a customer firm with
a rogue trader who engaged in fraudulent trading of Apple
stock. Morgan Stanley agreed to pay a $4 million penalty.1
In the second action, the SEC charged Goldman, Sachs
& Co. with violating the market access rule in connection
with a trading incident that resulted in erroneous executions of options contracts. Goldman Sachs agreed to pay
a $7 million penalty.2
In the third action, the SEC charged Latour Trading LLC, a
high-frequency proprietary trading firm, with violating the rule
by failing to maintain control over safeguards in its trading
software. Latour agreed to pay a penalty of $5 million and
more than $3 million in disgorgement of gross trading profits,
rebates paid to it by exchanges, and prejudgment interest.3
In January and August 2015, the SEC also instituted settled
proceedings against two brokerage firms that operated
alternative trading systems (ATS) known as “dark pools”
with disclosure failures. In the first proceeding, the SEC
charged a subsidiary of UBS with disclosure failures and
other securities law violations related to the operation
and marketing of its dark pool. According to the SEC’s
order, UBS Securities LLC failed to properly disclose to all
subscribers the existence of an order type that it pitched
almost exclusively to market makers and high-frequency
trading firms. The firm also failed to disclose the existence of
a restriction that would ensure that select orders would not
execute against orders placed by market makers and highfrequency trading firms until approximately 30 months after
the restriction was launched. UBS Securities LLC agreed
to settle the charges by paying more than $14.4 million,
including a $12 million penalty.4
In the second action, the SEC announced that ITG Inc.
and its affiliate AlterNet Securities have agreed to pay

1	

In the Matter of Morgan Stanley & Co. LLC, Press Rel. 2014-274 (December 10, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543668817

2	

In the Matter of Goldman, Sachs & Co., Press Rel. 2015-133 (June 30, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-133.html

3	

In the Matter of Latour Trading LLC, Press Rel. 2015-221 (September 30, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-221.html

4	

In the Matter of UBS Secs. LLC, Press Rel. 2015-7 (January 15, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-7.html

145

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

$20.3 million to settle charges that they operated a secret
trading desk and misused the confidential trading information of dark pool subscribers. ITG and AlterNet agreed to
a settlement that included a penalty of $18 million, representing the highest penalty assessed against an ATS to
date, $2 million in disgorgement, and factual admissions.5
In October 2014, in the first case involving high frequency
trading manipulation, the SEC sanctioned a New York Citybased high frequency trading firm for placing a large number
of aggressive, rapid-fire trades in the final two seconds
of almost every trading day during a six-month period to
manipulate the closing prices of thousands of NASDAQlisted stocks. The firm, Athena Capital Research, agreed to
pay a $1 million penalty to settle the charges.6
In November 2014, the SEC charged HSBC’s Swiss-based
private banking arm with violating Federal securities laws by
failing to register with the SEC before providing cross-border
brokerage and investment advisory services to U.S. clients.
HSBC settled the SEC’s charges by acknowledging that its
conduct violated the Federal securities laws and agreeing to
pay $5.7 million in disgorgement, $4.2 million in prejudgment
interest, and a $2.6 million penalty.7
In January 2015, in the first case principally focusing on stock
exchange order types, two exchanges formerly owned by
Direct Edge Holdings agreed to pay a $14 million penalty to
settle the SEC’s charges that their rules failed to accurately
describe the order types being used on the exchanges.
An SEC investigation found that while operating under rules
that described a single “price sliding” process for handling
buy or sell orders, the EDGA Exchange and EDGX Exchange
actually offered three variations of “price sliding” order types.
The exchanges’ rules did not completely and accurately
describe the prices at which those orders would be ranked

and executable in certain circumstances, and they also failed
to describe the execution priority of the three order types
relative to each other and other order types. The SEC’s
investigation further found that the exchanges separately
disclosed information about how those order types operated
to some but not all of their members. To settle the charges,
the two exchanges agreed to pay a $14 million penalty and
to comply with various undertakings, including a requirement
that they develop new policies and procedures relating to the
development of, rule filing process for, and communication
of information regarding order types.8
Also in January 2015, the SEC charged Oppenheimer &
Co. with violating Federal securities laws while improperly
selling penny stocks in unregistered offerings on behalf of
customers. Oppenheimer agreed to admit wrongdoing and
pay $10 million to settle the SEC’s charges and an additional $10 million to settle a parallel action by the Treasury
Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network.
Oppenheimer also agreed to undertake remedial measures
such as retaining an independent consultant to review its
policies and procedures over a five-year period.9
In June 2015, the SEC charged two Merrill Lynch entities
with using inaccurate data in the course of executing short
sale orders. Merrill Lynch agreed to admit wrongdoing, pay
nearly $11 million, and retain an independent compliance
consultant in order to settle the charges.10
In July 2015, the SEC charged OZ Management LP with
providing inaccurate trade data to four prime brokers, causing
inaccuracies in the brokers’ books and records and in data
provided to the SEC in investigations. OZ Management, an
investment adviser for numerous Och-Ziff funds, admitted
wrongdoing and agreed to pay a $4.25 million penalty to
settle the charges.11

5	

In the Matter of ITG Inc. et al., Press Rel. 2015-164 (August 12, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-164.html

6	

In the Matter of Athena Capital Research, LLC, Press Rel. 2014-229,
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543184457

7	

In the Matter of HSBC Private Bank (Suisse), SA, Press Rel. 2014-266 (November 25, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543534789

8	

In the Matter of EDGA Exchange Inc. et al., Press Rel. 2015-2 (January 12, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-2.html

9	

In the Matter of Oppenheimer & Co. Inc., Press Rel. 2015-14 (January 27, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-14.html

10	 In

the Matter of Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2015-105 (June 1, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-105.html

11	 In

146

the Matter of OZ Management, LP, Press Rel. 2015-145 (July 14, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-145.html

APPENDICES

Actions Related to Financial Fraud, Issuer
Disclosure, and Gatekeepers
Financial reporting, accounting and disclosure fraud, and
the role of gatekeepers continued to be a high priority for
the SEC in FY 2015. The SEC brought a number of high
impact cases in this area.
In December 2014, the SEC instituted proceedings against
two former top executives at Assisted Living Concepts Inc.
(ALC), a Wisconsin-based assisted living provider accused
of listing fake occupants at some senior residences in order
to meet the requirements of a lease to operate the facilities.
The SEC’s Enforcement Division alleged that the former
executives devised a scheme involving false disclosures and
manipulation of internal books and records when it appeared
likely that ALC would default on financial promises known as
covenants in a lease agreement with a Chicago-based real
estate investment trust that owned the facilities. Following
the institution of proceedings, one of the former executives
agreed to a settlement that included a $100,000 penalty;
the proceedings against the other former executive were
not completed during FY 2015.12
The SEC brought a number of significant actions involving
violations of auditor independence rules. In December 2014,
the SEC sanctioned eight firms for violating auditor independence rules when they prepared the financial statements of
brokerage firms that were their audit clients. SEC investigations found that the audit firms, which agreed to settle the
cases, generally took data from financial documents provided
by clients during audits and used it to prepare their financial
statements and notes to the financial statements. Under
auditor independence rules, firms cannot jeopardize their
objectivity and impartiality in the auditing process by providing
such non-audit services to audit clients. By preparing the
financial statements, these particular firms essentially put
themselves in the position of auditing their own work, and
they inappropriately aligned themselves more closely with the
interests of clients’ management teams in helping prepare

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

the books rather than strictly auditing them. The audit firms
each settled, agreed to remedial undertakings, and agreed
to pay a total of $140,000 in penalties.13
Later, in July 2015, the SEC charged Deloitte & Touche LLP
with violating auditor independence rules when its consulting
affiliate maintained a business relationship with a trustee
serving on the boards and audit committees of three funds it
audited. According to the SEC’s order, despite the independence-impairing relationship, Deloitte represented in audit
reports that it was independent of the three client funds. The
SEC also charged the trustee with causing related reporting
violations by the funds, and the funds’ administrator with
causing related compliance violations. Deloitte, the trustee
and the funds’ administrator settled with the Commission;
Deloitte agreed to a censure, cease-and-desist order, and
payment of more than $1 million in disgorgement, prejudgment interest and penalties, and the trustee and funds’
administrator collectively agreed to pay more than $100,000
in disgorgement, prejudgment interest and penalties.14
In February 2015, the SEC charged two former Chief Financial
Officers (CFOs) of Saba Software under Section 304 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, which requires officers to
reimburse the company for bonuses and stock sale profits
received while the misconduct occurred. According to the
SEC’s order, Saba Software overstated its pre-tax earnings
and made material misstatements about its revenue recognition practices while William Slater served as CFO from
December 2008 to October 2011 and while Peter Williams,
III served as CFO from October 2011 to January 2012.
The SEC’s order found that Messrs. Slater and Williams
received $337,375 and $141,992 respectively during time
periods when Saba Software presented materially false and
misleading financial statements. While not personally charged
with the company’s misconduct, Messrs. Slater and Williams
were still required under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act to reimburse the company for bonuses and stock sale
profits received while the fraud occurred. To settle the SEC’s
charges, the two agreed to forfeit these amounts.15

12	 In

the Matter of Laurie Bebo, et al., Press. Rel. 2014-269 (December 3, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543576909

13	 In

the Matter of BKD, LLP, et al., Press Rel. 2014-272 (December 8, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543608588

14	 In

the Matter of Deloitte & Touche, LLP, et al., Press Rel. 2015-137 (July 1, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-137.html

15	 In

the Matter of William Slater, CPA et al., Press. Rel. 2015-28 (February 10, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-28.html

147

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

In April 2015, the SEC charged W2007 Grace Acquisition I
Inc., a real estate investment firm, with failing to make required
public filings. W2007 Grace, which is indirectly owned by
one or more private equity funds affiliated with The Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., agreed to pay $640,000 to settle the
SEC’s charges relating to eight missed filings.16

and gas properties, resulting in fraudulent financial reports
for the Tennessee-based company. Enforcement also alleged
that the fiscal 2010 audit of Miller Energy’s financial statements was deficient due to the failure of Carlton W. Vogt
III, the partner in charge of the audit.20 The proceedings in
this matter are ongoing.

In May 2015, the SEC charged ITT Educational Services
Inc., its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Kevin Modany, and
its Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Daniel Fitzpatrick with
engaging in a fraudulent scheme to conceal significant
defaults associated with ITT’s student loan programs.
The SEC’s complaint alleges that the national operator
of for-profit colleges and the two executives fraudulently
concealed from ITT’s investors the poor performance and
looming financial impact of two student loan programs that
ITT financially guaranteed.17 The SEC’s action is ongoing
and was not resolved during FY 2015.

In September 2015, the SEC brought a number of charges
involving accounting and disclosure issues. First, the SEC
charged Denver-based sports supplement and nutrition
company MusclePharm Corp. with committing a series of
accounting and disclosure violations, including the failure
to properly report nearly a half-million dollars’ worth of
perks bestowed on its executives. MusclePharm agreed
to settle the charges along with three current or former
executives and the company’s former audit committee chair
who were found to have been involved in various aspects
of the company’s misconduct. MusclePharm agreed to
pay a $700,000 penalty and hire an independent monitor
for one year, among other undertakings; the executives
and former audit committee chair agreed to pay penalties
totaling $210,000.21

Also in May 2015, the SEC charged Deutsche Bank AG
with filing misstated financial reports during the height of the
financial crisis that failed to take into account a material risk
for potential losses estimated to be in the billions of dollars.
The company settled to charges under the reporting provisions and paid a $55 million penalty.18
In June 2015, the SEC charged Computer Sciences
Corporation (CSC) and eight former executives with manipulating financial results and concealing significant problems
about the company’s contract with the United Kingdom’s
National Health Service. CSC paid a $190 million penalty
to settle the charges; the executives, all of whom have now
settled the SEC’s charges, paid over $5 million in clawbacks,
disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and penalties.19
In August 2015, the SEC instituted proceedings against Miller
Energy Resources Inc., its former CFO, and its current Chief
Operating Officer (COO) with allegedly inflating values of oil

16	 In

Third, the SEC charged national audit firm BDO USA with
dismissing red flags and issuing false and misleading audit
opinions about the finances of staffing services company
General Employment Enterprises. The SEC also charged

the Matter of W2007 Grace Acquisition I, Inc., Press Rel. 2015-74 (April 22, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-74.html

17	 SEC
18	 In

Second, the SEC brought charges against Bankrate Inc.
and three former executives alleging accounting fraud
related to the fraudulent manipulations of the company’s
financial results to meet analyst expectations. To settle the
charges, Bankrate agreed to pay a $15 million penalty and
former vice president of finance Hyunjin Lerner agreed to
pay $180,000 in disgorgement and a penalty and agreed
to be barred from serving as an officer.22 The SEC’s action
against former CEO Edward DiMaria and former director
of accounting Matthew Gamsey is ongoing.

v. ITT Educ. Servs. et al., Press. Rel. 2015-86 (May 12, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-86.html

the Matter of Deutsche Bank AG, Press Rel. 2015-99 (May 16, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-99.html

19	 In

the Matter of Computer Scis. Corp., et al., Press Rel. 2015-111 (June 5, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-111.html

20	 In

the Matter of Miller Energy Res., Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2015-161 (August 6, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-161.html

21	 In

the Matter of MusclePharm Corp., et al., Press Rel. 2015-179 (September 8, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-179.html

22	 In

the Matter of Bankrate, Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2015-180 (September 8, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-180.html

148

APPENDICES

five of the firm’s partners for their roles in the deficient
audits, and filed fraud charges against General Employment
Enterprises’ then-chairman Stephen Pence, also a former
U.S. attorney and former lieutenant governor of Kentucky.
BDO agreed to admit wrongdoing, to disgorge its audit
fees, and to pay a $1.5 million penalty to settle the charges.
The five partners also agreed to settle the charges. Two
former CEOs of General Employment agreed to settle
separate charges, and the litigation continues against
Mr. Pence.23
Fourth, the SEC charged Trinity Capital Corporation and
five of its current or former executives for having materially
misstated its provision for loan losses and its allowance
for loan and lease losses in its quarterly and annual filings
with the Commission during 2010, 2011, and the first
two quarters of 2012. Trinity and three of the executives
agreed to settle the SEC’s charges; Trinity agreed to a
$1.5 million penalty, one of the executives agreed to pay
a $250,000 penalty and a bar from serving as an officer
or director at a public company for five years. The other
two executives are cooperating with the SEC in its ongoing
litigation and agreed to books-and-records, reporting, and
internal control violations with the amount of any penalty
to be determined later.24 The SEC’s litigation continues
against the two non-settling executives.
Finally, the SEC charged several former executives of
Penson Financial Services, Inc., which was once the
second largest clearing broker-dealer in the U.S., its parent,
Penson Worldwide, Inc., and its largest shareholder for their
role in the firm’s failure to disclose the nature of certain
loans or to timely recognize losses on the loans. The settling
individuals collectively paid $175,000 in penalties to settle
the matter and agreed to other ancillary relief.25

23	 In

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Actions Related to Insider Trading
The SEC continued its impressive record in bringing highimpact cases in the area of insider trading. In FY 2015, the
SEC leveraged in-house expertise and data analytics to
search for connections between trades and traders to root
out this abusive form of trading.
In December 2014, the SEC charged a California-based
attorney and his wife with insider trading on confidential information obtained from a corporate client. Both the attorney
and his wife agreed to pay $90,000 to settle the SEC’s
charges, and Shivbir Grewal, the attorney, also agreed to be
suspended from practicing as an attorney before the SEC
on behalf of any publicly traded company or other entity
regulated by the agency.26
In April 2015, the SEC charged two longtime friends who
illegally profited from insider trading on news of a proposed
acquisition of Cooper Tire and Rubber Company by Apollo
Tyres, Ltd. The SEC alleged that Amit Kanodia tipped Iftikar
Ahmed after learning about the deal from his wife, then
the general counsel at Apollo Tyres. Mr. Ahmed purchased
Cooper Tire stock and options which he liquidated immediately after news of the deal was made public, reaping more
than $1.1 million in illicit profits, $220,000 of which he then
transferred to Mr. Kanodia by donating to a supposed charity
that Mr. Kanodia controlled. Proceedings in this matter were
not resolved during FY 2015.27
The SEC in May 2015 charged Sean R. Stewart and his
father Robert K. Stewart with allegedly conducting a serial
insider trading scheme involving tips of key nonpublic information in coded email messages disguised at discussions
about golf. The SEC alleged that Sean Stewart, managing
director at a prominent investment bank, routinely passed to
his father confidential information about future mergers and
acquisitions involving clients of the investment banks where

the Matter of BDO USA, LLP, et al., Press Rel. 2015-184 (September 9, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-184.html

24	 In

the Matter of Trinity Capital Corp., In the Matter of William C. Enloe, In the Matter of Daniel R. Bartholomew, et al., SEC v. Jill D.
Cook, et al., Press Rel. 2015-215 (September 28, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-215.html

25	 In

the Matter of Philip A. Pendergraft, et al., Press Rel. 2015-194 (September 17, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-194.html

26	 SEC

v. Shivbir S. Grewal, et al., Press Rel. 2014-290 (December 22, 2014) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2014-290.html

27	 SEC

v. Amit Kanodia, et al., Press Rel. 2015-56 (April 2, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-56.html

149

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

he had worked. Robert Stewart then made highly profitable
trades, generating approximately $1.1 million in illicit profits
over a four-year period. Proceedings in this matter were not
resolved during FY 2015.28
In June 2015, the SEC announced insider trading charges
against four individuals who allegedly stole confidential information from investment banks and their public company
clients in order to trade in advance of secondary stock
offerings. The scheme allegedly involved at least 15 stocks
and generated more than $4.4 million in illegal trading profits.
The SEC’s action against the four individuals and against
three associated entities is ongoing.29
Later that month, the SEC filed settled charges against
Helmut Anscheringer, a Swiss trader who had garnered
more than $1.8 million in illicit profits by trading on nonpublic
information ahead of a Florida-based biometrics company’s
acquisition by Apple Inc. According to the SEC’s order,
Mr. Anscheringer purchased stock and call options in
AuthenTec after he learned of the proposed acquisition
from a longtime friend who was related to an AuthenTec
executive. Mr. Anscheringer agreed to settle the charges by
paying more than $2.8 million in disgorgement, prejudgment
interest, and penalties.30
In August 2015, the SEC filed settled charges against
Citigroup Global Markets for failing to enforce policies and
procedures to prevent and detect securities transactions
that could involve the misuse of material, nonpublic information. An investigation found that Citigroup illegally failed
to take reasonable steps to prevent the misuse of material
nonpublic information when technological errors caused
the firm to omit information about thousands of trades from
electronically-generated reports to review trades executed
by several of its trading desks. Citigroup agreed to pay a
$15 million penalty to settle these charges.31

In August and September 2015, the SEC brought two
matters that arose from trading data analysis tools
employed by the Analysis and Detection Center in
Enforcement’s Market Abuse Unit. In August 2015, the
SEC charged a former investment bank analyst with illegally
tipping his close friend with confidential information about
clients involved in impending mergers and acquisitions of
technology companies. The SEC also charged his friend
and another individual with trading on the inside information.32 Proceedings in this matter were not resolved
during FY 2015.
In September 2015, the SEC charged a consultant and his
friend with insider trading in the options of P.F. Chang’s China
Bistro based on nonpublic information about an impending
acquisition offer. The SEC also charged another trader as a
relief defendant who agreed to pay $19,829.33 Proceedings
in this matter were not resolved during FY 2015.

Actions Related to Enforcement of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA)
FCPA enforcement continued to be a high priority area for
the SEC’s enforcement program in FY 2015.
In November 2014, the SEC charged clinical diagnostic
and life science research company Bio-Rad Laboratories
with violating the FCPA when its subsidiaries made illegal
payments to officials in Russia, Vietnam, and Thailand to win
business in those countries. The SEC’s investigation found
that Bio-Rad lacked sufficient internal controls to prevent
or detect approximately $7.5 million in improper payments
over a five-year period, which enabled the company to
earn $35 million in illicit profits. Bio-Rad self-reported its
misconduct and cooperated extensively with the SEC’s
investigation, in addition to paying $55 million to settle
the charges.34

28	 SEC

v. Sean R. Stewart, et al., Press Rel. 2015-90 (May 14, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-90.html

29	 SEC

v. Steven Fishoff, et al., Press Rel. 2015-107 (June 3, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-107.html

30	 In

the Matter of Helmut Anscheringer, Press Rel. 2015-119 (June 15, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-119.html

31	 In

the Matter of Citigroup Global Mkts., Inc., Press Rel. 2015-171 (August 19, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-171.html

32	 SEC

v. Asish Aggarwal, et al., Press Rel. 2015-174 (August 25, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-174.html

33	 SEC

v. Richard G. Condon, et al., Press Rel. 2015-205 (September 23, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-205.html

34	 In

the Matter of Bio-Rad Labs., Inc., Press Rel. 2014-245 (November 3, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543347364

150

APPENDICES

Also in November 2014, the SEC sanctioned two former
employees in the Dubai office of a U.S.-based defense
contractor for violating the FCPA by taking government
officials in Saudi Arabia on a “world tour” to help secure
business for the company. The two employees later falsified
records in an attempt to hide their misconduct. Stephen
Timms and Yasser Ramahi, who worked in sales at FLIR
Systems Inc., agreed to settle the SEC’s charges and pay
financial penalties of $50,000 and $20,000 respectively.35
In December 2014, the SEC charged global beauty
company Avon Products Inc. with violating the FCPA
by failing to put controls in place to detect and prevent
payments and gifts to Chinese government officials from
employees and consultants at a subsidiary. According to the
SEC’s complaint, Avon’s subsidiary in China made $8 million
worth of payments in cash, gifts, travel, and entertainment to gain access to Chinese officials implementing and
overseeing direct selling regulations in China. Avon sought
to be among the first allowed to test the regulations, and
eventually received the first direct selling business license
in China in March 2006. The improper payments also were
made to avoid fines or negative news articles that could have
impacted Avon’s clean corporate image required to retain
the license. Avon and its subsidiaries agreed to settle the
charges by paying a total of $135 million in disgorgement,
prejudgment interest, and penalties in the SEC action and
a parallel criminal matter.36
In January 2015, the SEC charged a former officer at a
Tampa, Fla.-based engineering and construction firm with
violating the FCPA by offering and authorizing bribes and
employment to foreign officials to secure Qatari government contracts. Without admitting or denying the findings,
Mr. Hatoum agreed to pay a penalty of $50,000. The SEC
also announced a deferred prosecution agreement (DPA)
with The PBSJ Corporation that defers FCPA charges

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

for a period of two years and requires the company to
comply with certain undertakings. PBSJ paid $3.4 million
in financial remedies as part of the agreement, which
reflected the company’s significant cooperation with the
SEC investigation.37
The SEC in February 2015 charged Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Company with violating the FCPA when its subsidiaries paid
bribes to land tire sales in Kenya and Angola. According
to the SEC’s order instituting a settled administrative
proceeding, Goodyear failed to prevent or detect more
than $3.2 million in bribes during a four-year period due to
inadequate FCPA compliance controls at its subsidiaries
in sub-Saharan Africa. Goodyear agreed to pay more than
$16 million to settle the SEC’s charges.38
In May 2015, the SEC charged global resources company
BHP Billiton with FCPA violations when it sponsored the
attendance of foreign government officials at the Summer
Olympics. An SEC investigation found that BHP Billiton
failed to devise and maintain sufficient internal controls over
its global hospitality program connected to the company’s
sponsorship of the 2008 Summer Olympic Games in Beijing.
BHP Billiton agreed to pay a $25 million penalty to settle
the SEC’s charges.39
In August 2015, the SEC announced that BNY Mellon had
agreed to pay $14.8 million to settle charges that it had
violated the FCPA by providing valuable student internships to family members of foreign government officials
affiliated with a Middle Eastern sovereign wealth fund.
The investigation found that BNY Mellon lacked sufficient
internal controls to prevent and detect the improper hiring
practices, which circumvented the rigorous standards of
the highly-competitive internship programs to corruptly
influence foreign officials and win or retain contracts to
manage the assets of the sovereign wealth fund.40

35	 In

the Matter of Stephen Timms, et al., Press Rel. 2014-257 (November 17, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543472839

36	 SEC
37	 In

v. Avon Prods., Inc., Press Rel. 2014-185 (December 17, 2014) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2014-285.html

the Matter of Walid Hatoum, Press Rel. 2015-13 (January 22, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-13.html

38	 In

the Matter of the Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co., Press Rel. 2015-38 (February 24, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-38.html

39	 In

the Matter of BHP Billiton Ltd., et al., Press Rel. 2015-93 (May 20, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-93.html

40	 In

the Matter of the Bank of New York Mellon Corp., Press Rel. 2015-170 (August 18, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-170.html

151

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Also in August 2015, the SEC announced that a former
executive at a worldwide software manufacturer has agreed
to settle charges that he violated the FCPA by bribing
Panamanian government officials through an intermediary to
procure software license sales. Vicente E. Garcia consented
to the entry of the cease-and-desist order and agreed to
pay disgorgement of $85,965, which is the total amount of
kickbacks he received, plus prejudgment interest of $6,430
for a total of $92,395.41
In September 2015, the SEC charged Tokyo-based
conglomerate Hitachi, Ltd. with violating the FCPA when
it made and inaccurately recorded improper payments
to South Africa’s ruling political party in connection with
contracts to build two multi-billion dollar power plants.
Hitachi has agreed to pay $19 million to settle the SEC
charges.42

Actions Related to Market Manipulation
and Microcap Fraud
Market manipulation and microcap fraud remained a priority
for the SEC in FY 2015, with the SEC bringing many highimpact cases involving cross-border schemes and gatekeepers in this space. In the beginning of FY 2015, the
SEC charged current and former brokerage subsidiaries
of E*Trade Financial Corporation that failed in their gatekeeper roles and improperly engaged in unregistered sales
of microcap stocks on behalf of their customers. E*Trade
Securities and G1 Execution Services agreed to settle the
matter by paying back more than $1.5 million in disgorgement and prejudgment interest from commissions they
earned on the improper sales and a combined penalty of
$1 million.43
The SEC in February 2015 charged five offshore entities
with offering and selling unregistered penny stocks into
the public markets and obtained an emergency asset

41	 In

freeze to protect investor funds. According to the SEC’s
complaint, Cayman Islands-based, Caledonian Bank
Ltd. and Caledonian Securities Ltd., Belize-based, Clear
Water Securities, Inc. and Legacy Global Markets S.A.,
and Panama-based, Verdmont Capital S.A. conducted
unregistered sales of securities, reaping over $75 million
in illegal sales proceeds. The SEC’s action in this matter
was not resolved during FY 2015.44
In May 2015, the SEC announced fraud charges against
securities lawyer Adam S. Gottbetter for orchestrating
promotional campaigns that touted the prospects of
microcap companies and enticed investors to buy stock
at inflated prices so he and his cohorts could sell shares they
controlled and reap massive profits. Gottbetter agreed to
pay $4.6 million to settle the SEC’s charges. Mr. Gottbetter’s
associate David Stevenson also agreed to settle the
charges, and the SEC’s action against another associate,
Mitchell Adam, was not resolved during FY 2015.45
The SEC in June 2015 announced an emergency asset
freeze of two U.S. brokerage accounts, containing approximately $2 million in assets, which were connected to
schemes to manipulate Avon and other stocks. According
to an SEC complaint filed in Federal court in Manhattan,
the agency has tracked a filing on its Electronic Data
Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system
last month about a false Avon tender offer to a foreign
entity using an IP address located in Sofia, Bulgaria.
A Bulgarian trader named Nedko Nedev controlled at least
one of the two now-frozen brokerage accounts, and his
account held a substantial position in Avon contracts-fordifference (CFDs) that were losing value in recent months.
The SEC alleges that Mr. Nedev generated approximately
$5,000 in excess profits by selling almost half of the account’s
Avon CFDs at inflated prices after the EDGAR filing led to a
20 percent increase in the value of Avon stock on May 14.46
The SEC’s action was not resolved during FY 2015.

the Matter of Vicente E. Garcia, Press Rel. 2015-165 (August 18, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-165.html

42	 SEC

v. Hitachi, Ltd., Press Rel. 2015-212 (September 28, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-212.html

43	 In

the Matter of E*Trade Secs., LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2014-225 (October 9, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543133526

44	 SEC

v. Caledonian Bank Ltd., et al., Lit. Rel. No. 23195 (February 11, 2015) www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2015/lr23195.htm

45	 SEC

v. Adam S. Gottbetter, et al., Press Rel. 2015-100 (May 26, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-100.html

46	 SEC

v. PTG Capital Partners, Ltd, et al., Press Rel. 2015-110 (June 4, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-110.html

152

APPENDICES

Also in June 2015, the SEC charged microcap promoter
Gregg Mulholland with illegally selling more than 83 million
penny stock shares that he secretly obtained through at
least 10 different offshore front companies. According to
the SEC’s complaint, Mulholland accumulated at least 84
percent of the issued and outstanding shares of Vision
Plasma Systems Inc., which he then liquidated for proceeds
of at least $21 million.47 The SEC’s action was not resolved
during FY 2015.
In July 2015, the SEC brought charges against 15 individuals
and 19 entities for their roles in alleged schemes to manipulate the trading of microcap stocks. The 34 defendants
include six firms alleged to have acted as unregistered
broker-dealers, owners and employees at the six firms,
stock promoters, and two microcap issuers – Warrior Girl
Corp. and Nature’s Peak.48 The SEC’s action was not
resolved during FY 2015.
In July 2015, the SEC charged Canadian citizen Philip Thomas
Kueber with conducting a scheme to conceal his control
and ownership of microcap company Cynk Technology
Corp, the shares of which spiked to $21 from less than
10 cents per share. The SEC suspended trading in Cynk
before Mr. Kueber could profit on the gains from the stock’s
rise.49 The SEC’s action was not resolved during FY 2015.
In August 2015, the SEC announced fraud charges and
an asset freeze against 34 defendants for allegedly taking
part in a massive international cyber-hacking scheme to
profit from nonpublic information about corporate earnings
announcements.50 Since filing the emergency action, the
SEC has obtained a $30 million settlement from two defendants who made approximately $25 million buying and
selling CFDs on the basis of the hacked press releases.51
The SEC’s litigation continues against the remaining
32 defendants.

47	 SEC

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

The SEC in September 2015 announced fraud charges
against a Wall Street CEO and his company, family
members, and business associates for allegedly secretly
obtaining control and manipulating the stock of Chinese
companies they were purportedly guiding through the
process of raising capital and becoming publicly-traded
in the United States.52 The SEC’s action was not resolved
during FY 2015.

Actions Related to Municipal Securities
During FY 2015, the SEC brought a number of cutting-edge
and first-of-their kind cases involving municipal securities.
In November 2014, the SEC filed its first enforcement actions
under Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board Rule G-15(f)
when it sanctioned 13 firms for violating the rule, which
establishes a “minimum denomination” requirement that is
the smallest amount of a municipal bond offering that a firm is
allowed to sell to an investor in a single transaction. This rule
is designed to protect retail investors by requiring municipal
bond issuers that set high minimum denomination amounts
for high-risk “junk bonds.” The SEC detected improper sales
below a $100,000 minimum denomination set in a $3.5 billion
offering of junk bonds by the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico
earlier in 2014. The SEC’s subsequent investigation identified
a total of 66 occasions when dealer firms sold the Puerto
Rico bonds to investors in amounts below $100,000. Each
of the 13 bond dealers agreed to settle the SEC’s charges
by paying penalties ranging from $54,000 to $130,000.53
Later that same month, the SEC announced charges
against the City of Allen Park, Michigan, and two former
city leaders in connection with false and misleading statements made in documents provided to investors during
the city’s sale of $31 million in general obligation bonds to
finance a movie studio and full-service media center. The
city and the two officials, former city mayor Gary Burtka

v. Gregg R. Mulholland, Press Rel. 2015-129 (June 23, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-129.html

48	 SEC

v. Harold Bailey “B.J.” Gallison, II (AKA Bart Williams), et al., Press Rel. 2015-146 (July 14, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-146.html

49	 SEC

v. Philip Thomas Kueber, Press Rel. 2015-157 (July 31, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-157.html

50	 SEC

v. Arkadiy Dubovoy, et al., Press Rel. 2015-163 (August 11, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-163.html

51	 SEC

v. Arkadiy Dubovoy, et al., Press Rel. 2015-191 (September 14, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-191.html

52	 SEC

v. Benjamin Wey, et al., Press Rel. 2015-189 (September 10, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-189.html

53	 Press

Rel. 2014-246 (November 3, 2014) www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543350368

153

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

and former city administrator Eric Waidelich, have agreed
to settle the charges. The SEC alleged that Mr. Burtka
was in a position to control the actions of the city and
Mr. Waidelich with respect to the fraudulent bond issuances, making this action instance of the SEC charging a
municipal official under a Federal statute that provides for
“control person” liability.54
In June and September 2015, the SEC announced the first
series of actions brought against municipal underwriters
in the Municipalities Continuing Disclosure Cooperation
(MCDC) Initiative, a voluntary self-reporting program targeting
material misstatements and omissions in municipal bond
offering documents. The MCDC initiative, announced in
March 2014, offered favorable settlement terms to municipal
bond underwriters and issuers who self-reported securities
law violations to the SEC. In the first two sets of enforcement
actions, the SEC announced charges against 58 firms for
violating Federal securities laws by selling municipal bonds
using offering documents that contained materially false
statements or omissions about the bond issuers’ compliance
with continuing disclosure obligations. Under the terms of
the ongoing initiative, the firms agreed to cease and desist
from such violations in the future and to pay penalties based
on the number and size of the fraudulent offerings. The
underwriters also agreed to retain an independent consultant
to review its policies and procedures on due diligence for
municipal securities underwriting.55
Also in June 2015, the SEC announced its first case
against an underwriter for pricing-related fraud in the
primary market for municipal securities. The SEC charged
brokerage firm Edward Jones and the former head of its
municipal underwriting desk, Stina Wishman, with violations
related to its failure to offer new bonds to customers at the
“initial offering price,” which is negotiated with the bond
issuer. According to the SEC’s order, Edward Jones and

Ms. Wishman offered bonds to customers at improperly
inflated prices, in some cases waiting to offer the bonds
until after trading had commenced in the secondary market,
causing the firm’s customers to pay at least $4.6 million
more than they should have for the new bonds. Edward
Jones agreed to settle the case by paying more than
$20 million, which includes nearly $5.2 million in disgorgement and prejudgment interest that will be distributed to
current and former customers who were overcharged for
the bonds. Ms. Wishman agreed to pay $15,000 and will
be barred from working in the securities industry for at
least two years.56

Actions Related to Investment Advisers
and Investment Companies
FY 2015 was also an active year for the SEC in matters
involving investment advisers and investment companies.
In December 2014, the SEC charged the Investment
Manager F-Squared with fraud in connection with false
performance advertising about its flagship product.57 The
SEC separately charged the firm’s co-founder and former
CEO Howard Present with making false and misleading
statements to investors as the public face of F-Squared.58
According to the SEC’s order, the adviser falsely advertised
a successful seven-year track record for its investment
strategy and stated that these results were “not backtested,”
when in reality the algorithm in question had not been in
existence for that period of time. Moreover, the backtested
data contained a substantial calculation error that inflated
the results by approximately 350 percent. The firm agreed
to pay disgorgement of $30 million, to pay a penalty of
$5 million, admit wrongdoing, and to hire an independent
consultant. Litigation against Mr. Present is ongoing.
In January 2015, the SEC charged Massachusetts-based
investment advisers, their principal, and others with misap-

54	 In

the Matter of City of Allen Park, Michigan, et al., Press Rel. 2014-249 (November 6, 2014)
www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370543373355

55	 Press

Rel. 2015-125 (June 18, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-125.html; Press Rel. 2015-220 (September 30, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-220.html

56	 In

the Matter of Edward D. Jones & Co., L.P., et al., Press Rel. 2015-166 (August 13, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-166.html

57	 In

the Matter of F-Squared Invs. Inc., Press Rel. 2014-289 (December 22, 2014) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2014-289.html

58	 SEC

154

v. Howard Present, Press Rel. 2014-289 (December 22, 2014) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2014-289.html

APPENDICES

propriation of at least $16 million belonging to an investment fund managed by some of the defendants.59 The SEC
charged Daniel Thibeault and various related entities with
fraud, and charged his wife and an entity as relief defendants.
The following month, the SEC announced fraud charges
against a New York City-based financial advisor accused
of allegedly stealing at least $20 million from customers to
fund his own brokerage accounts and then squandering the
bulk of the money in highly unprofitable options trading. The
SEC alleges that Michael J. Oppenheim abused his position
as a private client advisor at a global bank and persuaded
some customers to withdraw millions of dollars out of their
accounts by promising he would purchase safe and secure
municipal bonds on their behalf. Instead, Mr. Oppenheim
bought himself cashier’s checks and deposited them into
his own brokerage account or his wife’s account that he
controlled. Almost immediately after each theft and deposit,
Oppenheim allegedly embarked on sizeable trading of
stocks and options including Tesla, Apple, Google, and
Netflix. Mr. Oppenheim typically lost the entire amount of
each deposit, and his brokerage accounts currently show
minimal cash balances. On occasions when his accounts
did have positive cash balances, he allegedly wired money
to bank accounts in his or his wife’s name.60 The SEC’s
litigation in this matter is ongoing and was not resolved
during FY 2015.
In the first case to charge violations for failing to report a
material compliance matter to a fund board, the SEC in April
2015 filed charges against BlackRock Advisors, LLC for
breaching its fiduciary duty to investors by failing to disclose a
conflict of interest created by a BlackRock account manager
who was also general partner in an oil-and-gas company
that became the largest holding in BlackRock’s Energy &
Resources Portfolio. BlackRock agreed to settle the charges
and to pay a $12 million penalty. The SEC also charged
Blackrock’s former Chief Compliance Officer, Bartholomew

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Battista, with causing Blackrock’s violations; he agreed to pay
a $60,000 penalty to settle the SEC’s charges against him.61
In June 2015, the SEC charged a Massachusetts-based
investment advisory firm and its owner for funneling more
than $17 million in client assets into four financially troubled
Canadian penny stock companies in which the owner had
undisclosed business and financial interests.62 Interinvest
Corp. and its owner, Hans Peter Black, funneled over
$17 million in client assets into four financially troubled
Canadian penny stock companies in which Mr. Black had
served on the board of directors and that had collectively paid
an entity controlled by Mr. Black approximately $1.7 million –
without disclosing the conflict of interest. InterInvest’s clients
may have lost as much as $12 million of their $17 million
investment. The SEC’s litigation is ongoing and was not
resolved during FY 2015.
Also in June 2015, the SEC charged a mutual fund adviser, its
principal, and three mutual fund board members with failing
to satisfy their statutory obligations in connection with the
evaluation and approval of mutual fund advisory contracts.
Richmond, Va.-based advisory firm Commonwealth Capital
Management was charged with violating Section 15(c) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940 for providing incomplete
or inaccurate information to two mutual fund boards, and
the firm’s majority owner John Pasco III was charged with
causing the violations. They and former trustees J. Gordon
McKinley III, Robert R. Burke, and Franklin A. Trice III agreed
to settle the SEC’s charges.63
Later in June 2015, the SEC announced fraud charges
against a Wisconsin-based investment advisory firm and
its owner accused of improperly allocating to his personal
and business accounts certain options trades that appreciated in value during the course of a trading day while
allocating to his clients other trades that depreciated in
value.64 According to the order instituting proceedings,

59	 SEC

v. Daniel Thibeault, et al., Litigation Rel. No. 23171 (January 9, 2015) www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2015/lr23171.htm

60	 SEC

v. Michael J. Oppenheim, Press. Rel. 2015-68 (April 16, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-68.html

61	 In

the Matter of BlackRock Advisors, LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2015-71 (April 20, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-71.html

62	 SEC

v. Interinvest Corp. Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2015-122 (June 17, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-122.html

63	 In

the Matter of Commonwealth Capital Mgmt., LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2015-124 (June 17, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-124.html

64	 In

the Matter of Welhouse & Assocs., Inc., Press Rel. 2015-132 (June 29, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-132.html

155

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Enforcement alleged that the firm, Welhouse & Associates
Inc., owned by Mark P. Welhouse, purchased options in a
master account for the firm and then waited until later in the
day, once he knew whether the securities had appreciated,
to allocate the purchases to his or his client’s accounts. By
cherry-picking trades, he illegally obtained over $400,000
in profits. After running a simulation test one million times,
Enforcement (with assistance from the SEC’s Division of
Economic and Risk Analysis) concluded that the profitability in these accounts could not have resulted from a
coincidental or lucky combination of trades.
Also later in June 2015, the SEC charged private equity
firm Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. (KKR) with breaching
its fiduciary duty to investors by misallocating more than
$17 million in “broken deal” expenses. According to the
SEC’s order, KKR did not allocate to its co-investors any
portion of the expenses incurred from broken deals or
diligence expenses related to unsuccessful buyout opportunities and did not disclose this practice to investors in its
offering materials. KKR agreed to pay nearly $30 million
to settle the charges, including a penalty of $10 million.65
In July 2015, the SEC charged a Greenwich, Conn.-based
investment advisory firm and its two owners with fraudulently
inflating the prices of securities in hedge fund portfolios they
managed. An SEC investigation found that AlphaBridge
Capital Management told investors and its auditor that it
obtained independent price quotes from broker-dealers for
certain unlisted, thinly-traded residential mortgage-backed
securities (RMBS). AlphaBridge instead gave internallyderived valuations to broker-dealer representatives to pass
off as their own. The inflated valuation of these assets caused
the funds to pay higher management and performance
fees to AlphaBridge. AlphaBridge and its owners Thomas
T. Kutzen and Michael J. Carino agreed to pay $5 million
combined to settle the charges.66

In September 2015, the SEC charged a New York-based
investment adviser and its affiliated distributor with improperly
using mutual fund assets to pay for the marketing and distribution of fund shares. First Eagle Investment Management
and FEF Distributors agreed to pay nearly $40 million to
settle the SEC’s charges. The money will be returned to
the accounts of affected shareholders. The case is the first
arising out of a recent SEC initiative to protect mutual fund
shareholders from bearing the costs when firms improperly
use fund assets to pay for distribution-related services.
Known as the Distribution-in-Guise Initiative, the SEC is
seeking to determine whether some mutual fund advisers
are improperly using fund assets to pay for distribution by
masking the payments as sub-transfer agency payments.67

Actions Related to Complex Financial
Instruments
In January 2015, the SEC announced three settled actions
against ratings agency Standard & Poor’s related to alleged
misconduct at S&P’s commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) trading desk, were the SEC’s first enforcement
actions against one of the “Big Three” credit ratings agencies.
S&P agreed to pay more than $58 million to settle the SEC’s
charges, plus an additional $19 million to settle parallel cases
announced by the Attorney General’s offices of New York and
Massachusetts. The SEC also announced the institution of
proceedings against the former head of S&P’s CMBS group,
Barbara Duka; the proceedings are ongoing.68
Later in March 2015, the SEC announced fraud charges
against an investment adviser and her New York-based
firms accused of allegedly hiding the poor performance
of loan assets in three collateralized loan obligation (CLO)
funds they managed. The Enforcement Division alleged that
Lynn Tilton and her Patriarch Partners firms breached their
fiduciary duties and defrauded clients by allegedly failing

65	 In

the Matter of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co., L.P., Press Rel. 2015-131 (June 29, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-131.html

66	 In

the Matter of AlphaBridge Capital Mgmt., LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2015-134 (July 1, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-134.html

67	 In

the Matter of First Eagle Inv. Mgmt., et al., Press Rel. 2015-198 (September 21, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-198.html

68	 In

the Matter of Standard & Poor’s Rating Servs.; In the Matter of Barbara Duka, Press Rel. 2015-52 (January 21, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-10.html

156

APPENDICES

to value assets using the methodology described to investors in offering documents for the CLO funds, which have
portfolios comprised of loans to distressed companies.69
The SEC’s proceedings are ongoing and were not resolved
during FY 2015.
In June 2015, the SEC announced an enforcement action
against a company that illegally offered complex derivatives
products to retail investors. An SEC investigation found that
Silicon Valley-based Sand Hill Exchange was offering and
selling security-based swaps contracts to retail investors
outside the regulatory framework of a national securities
exchange and without the required registration statements
in effect. According to the SEC’s order, the violations were
detected shortly after the offering process began, and with
cooperation from the company the platform was shut down
before any investor harm occurred. Sand Hill agreed to settle
the SEC’s charges by payment of a $20,000 penalty.70
In September 2015, the SEC charged three traders with
repeatedly lying to customers in order to illicitly generate
millions of dollars in additional revenue for Nomura Securities
International. The SEC alleged that the traders misrepresented the bids and offers being provided to Nomura for
RMBS as well as the prices at which Nomura bought and
sold RMBS and the spreads the firm earned by intermediating
RMBS trades. The SEC separately entered into DPAs with
three other individuals who cooperated extensively with the
investigation. The SEC’s action is ongoing.71
Also in September 2015, the SEC announced that investment
advisory firm Taberna Capital Management had agreed to pay
more than $21 million to settle charges that it had fraudulently
retained millions of dollars in “exchange fees” belonging to
collateralized debt obligation (CDO) clients. According to the
SEC’s order, Taberna retained the fees, which were collected
in connection with restructuring transactions, despite the
fact that doing so was in violations of the CDOs’ governing

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

documents and did so without disclosing the practice to
investors. The firm’s former managing director and former
COO, also charged for their roles in the misconduct, agreed
to settle the SEC’s charges.72

Actions Related to Offering Frauds
and Ponzi and Pyramid Schemes
The SEC acted decisively in FY 2015 to protect investors
from offering frauds and pyramid schemes. In April 2015
the SEC charged a former professional football player and
others, alleging they operated a Ponzi scheme that raised
more than $31 million from investors who were promised
profits from loans to professional athletes. Will Allen and
a partner allegedly raised over $31 million that was to be
loaned to pro athletes who were short of cash for use in the
off season, but allegedly misled investors about the loans
and misused the proceeds.73
In May 2015, the SEC obtained an asset freeze against
a North Dakota entity, North Dakota Developments, LLC,
and two principals for defrauding investors in short-term
housing facilities, known as “man camps,” for oil and gas
workers. North Dakota Developments, LLC, and its two
owners raised over $62 million for interests in one of four
housing projects, on the basis of unrealistic projected returns,
and while making misstatements about when the projects
would be operational.74
In July 2015, the SEC announced charges against a Bay
Area oil and gas company and its CEO with running a
$68 million Ponzi-like scheme and affinity fraud that targeted
the Chinese-American community in California and investors
in Asia, including some solicited as part of the EB-5 Immigrant
Investor Program. According to the SEC’s complaint, Luca
International Group’s CEO misrepresented that the company
was profitable while knowing that the oil and gas drilling
operations were losing money and sinking in debt. To keep

69	 In

the Matter of Lynn Tilton, et al., Press Rel. 2015-52 (March 30, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-52.html

70	 In

the Matter of Sand Hill Exch., et al., Press Rel. 2015-123 www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-123.html

71	 SEC

v. Ross B. Shapiro, et al., Press Rel. 2015-181 (September 8, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-181.html

72	 In

the Matter of Taberna Capital Mgmt., LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2015-177 (September 2, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-177.html

73	 SEC

v. Capital Fin. Partners, LLC, et al., Press Rel. 2015-58 (April 7, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-58.html

74	 SEC

v. North Dakota Devs., Litigation Rel. No. 23252 (May 6, 2015) www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2015/lr23252.htm

157

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

the scheme from collapsing, the CEO commingled investor
funds and used new investor money to make sham payments
to earlier investors, all while diverting millions of dollars for
her personal use. The company’s CFO settled and agreed
to pay a $25,000 penalty. In addition, as part of a related
AP, the SEC charged Hiroshi Fujigami and his company
Wisteria Global with acting as unregistered broker-dealers.
Mr. Fujigami and Wisteria settled the charges by agreeing
to pay disgorgement of almost $1.1 million and Mr. Fujigami
agreed to permanent industry and penny stock bars.75
In August 2015, the SEC charged a Houston-area businessman with operating a $114 million Ponzi scheme that
defrauded investors, some of whom were told that their
money would fund technology to prevent accidents caused
by drowsy driving. Starting in October 2014, Frederick
A. Voight falsely promised annual returns of as much as
42 percent for investments that would be used to fund
publicly traded research and design company InterCore.
Mr. Voight, a member of InterCore’s board at all relevant
times, knew there was no business prospect for InterCore,
that it was insolvent, that it had no means of paying promised
returns, and that the only returns paid to investors would be
Ponzi payments. Mr. Voight and DayStar agreed to partially
settle the charges; both Mr. Voight and DayStar consented to
permanent injunctions and Mr. Voight consented to an officer
and director bar; with the penalty amount to be litigated.76

Other Significant Matters
In April 2015, the SEC announced its first enforcement action
against a company for using improperly restrictive language
in confidentiality agreements with the potential to stifle
the whistleblowing process. The SEC charged Houstonbased global technology and engineering firm KBR Inc.
with violating whistleblower protection Rule 21F-17 enacted
under the Dodd-Frank Act. According to the SEC’s order,
KBR required witnesses in certain internal investigations

75	 In

FY 2015 included a number of trial victories for Enforcement.
Following a five-day trial in November 2014, a jury in the
U.S. District Court in New Mexico returned a verdict finding
Charles Kokesh, who was CEO of defunct investmentadviser firms Technology Funding Ltd. and Technology
Funding, Inc., liable for defrauding his firms’ advisory clients
and for making false public filings with the SEC. In spite of
the duty of trust and confidence that he owed to his clients,
Kokesh systematically looted approximately $35 million
from client funds over many years. Following the remedies
phase of the proceedings, the court in April entered a final
judgment against Mr. Kokesh, ordering him to pay $55 million
in penalties, disgorgement, and prejudgment interest.78
In December 2014, a jury in the U.S. District Court in the
Southern District of Florida returned a verdict finding that
BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc., now known as BBX Capital
Corporation, and its CEO Alan Levan committed securities
fraud by misleading investors with fraudulent statements
made during an earnings conference call that understated
the Bank’s losses that year by approximately $53 million.
The jury’s verdict followed a six-week trial.79 Following the
remedies phase of the proceedings, the court entered final

the Matter of Wisteria Global Inc., et al., Press Rel. 2015-141 (July 6, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-141.html

76	 SEC
77	 In

interviews to sign confidentiality statements with language
warning that they could face discipline and even be fired
if they discussed the matters with outside parties without
the prior approval of KBR’s legal department. Since these
investigations included allegations of possible securities law
violations, the SEC found that these terms violated Rule
21F-17, which prohibits companies from taking any action
to impede whistleblowers from reporting possible securities violations to the SEC. KBR agreed to pay a $130,000
penalty to settle the charges, and voluntarily undertook to
amend its confidentiality statements by adding language
clarifying that employees are free to report possible violations to the SEC and other Federal agencies without KBR
approval and without fear of retaliation.77

v. Frederick Alan Voight, et al., Press Rel. 2015-158 (August 3, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-158.html

the Matter of KBR, Inc., Press Rel. 2015-54 (April 1, 2015) www.sec.gov/news/pressrelease/2015-54.html

78	 SEC
79	 SEC

v. Charles R. Kokesh, Litigation Rel. No. 23228 (April 2, 2015) www.sec.gov/litigation/litreleases/2015/lr23228.htm

v. BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc., et al., Public Statement by Andrew Ceresney (December 15, 2014)
www.sec.gov/news/statement/bankatlantic-statement.html

158

APPENDICES

judgments against BBX and Mr. Levan ordering permanent
injunctive relief as to both BBX and Levan, a $4.55 million
penalty as to BBX, and a two year officer-and-director bar
(effective 90 days from the court’s ruling) and a $1.3 million
penalty as to Mr. Levan.80
In March 2015, a jury in the U.S. District Court in the Central
District of California returned a verdict finding former Chicago
Bears player Willie Gault guilty for filing false certifications
with the SEC and for knowingly circumventing the internal
controls of HeartTronics, Inc., a public company where
Mr. Gault served as co-CEO.81
In April 2015, a jury in the U.S. District Court in the Southern
District of Florida found George Levin liable of committing
securities fraud in connection with two private investment

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

funds that raised more than $157 million from over 150
investors to purchase non-existent, discounted legal settlements from convicted Ponzi-schemer Scott Rothstein.
The SEC presented evidence that Mr. Levin falsely told
investors that the funds had several safeguards to protect
their investments, while knowing that the funds were not
following those safeguards and procedures.82
In September 2015, a jury in the Northern District of Illinois
found Ralph Pirtle, the former Director of Real Estate for
Philips Electronics North America, Inc., a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Royal Philips, N.V., and his friend and business
associate, Morando Berrettini, liable for insider trading in the
securities of three companies that were acquisition targets
for Philips. Proceedings regarding remedies are ongoing
and were not resolved during FY 2015.83

80	 SEC

v. BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc., et al., Public Statement by Andrew Ceresney (September 24, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/statement/statement-on-final-judgment-entered-against-bbx-capital-.html

81	 SEC

v. HeartTronics, Inc., et al., Public Statement by Andrew Ceresney (March 18, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/statement/statement-on-jury-verdict-in-willie-gault-heart-tronics-case.html

82	 SEC

v. George G. Levin, et al., Public Statement by Andrew Ceresney (April 1, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/statement/statement-on-jury-verdict-in-trial-of-george-levin.html

83	 SEC

v. Morando Berrettini, et al., Public Statement by Andrew Ceresney (September 24, 2015)
www.sec.gov/news/statement/statement-on-pirtle-and-berrettini-insider-trading-case.html

159

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Appendix C: SEC Divisions and Offices
Headquarters Offices
DIVISION OF CORPORATION
FINANCE
Keith F. Higgins, Director
(202) 551-3110

OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE
INSPECTIONS AND EXAMINATIONS
Marc Wyatt, Director
(202) 551-6200

OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL
AFFAIRS
Paul A. Leder, Director
(202) 551-6690

DIVISION OF ENFORCEMENT
Andrew Ceresney, Director
(202) 551-4500

OFFICE OF CREDIT RATINGS
Thomas J. Butler, Director
(212) 336-9080

DIVISION OF INVESTMENT
MANAGEMENT
David Grim, Director
(202) 551-6720

OFFICE OF EQUAL EMPLOYMENT
OPPORTUNITY
Alta G. Rodriguez, Director
(202) 551-6040

OFFICE OF THE INVESTOR
ADVOCATE
Rick Fleming, Investor Advocate
(202) 551-3302

DIVISION OF ECONOMIC AND
RISK ANALYSIS
Mark Flannery, Director
(202) 551-6600

OFFICE OF ETHICS COUNSEL
Shira Pavis Minton, Director
(202) 551-5170

DIVISION OF TRADING AND
MARKETS
Stephen Luparello, Director
(202) 551-5500

OFFICE OF FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT
Kenneth A. Johnson,
Chief Financial Officer
(202) 551-7840

OFFICE OF ACQUISITIONS
Vance Cathell, Director
(202) 551-7300

OFFICE OF THE GENERAL COUNSEL
Anne K. Small, General Counsel
(202) 551-5100

OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATIVE
LAW JUDGES
Brenda P. Murray,
Chief Administrative Law Judge
(202) 551-6030

OFFICE OF HUMAN RESOURCES
Lacey Dingman,
Chief Human Capital Officer
(202) 551-7500

OFFICE OF THE CHIEF
ACCOUNTANT
James Schnurr, Chief Accountant
(202) 551-5300
OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OPERATING
OFFICER
Jeffery Heslop, Chief Operating Officer
(202) 551-2200

160

OFFICE OF INFORMATION
TECHNOLOGY
Pamela Dyson, Chief Information Officer
(202) 551-8800
OFFICE OF INSPECTOR GENERAL
Carl W. Hoecker, Inspector General
(202) 551-6061

OFFICE OF INVESTOR EDUCATION
AND ADVOCACY
Lori Schock, Director
(202) 551-6500
OFFICE OF LEGISLATIVE AND
INTERGOVERNMENTAL AFFAIRS
Tim Henseler, Director
(202) 551-2010
OFFICE OF MINORITY AND
WOMEN INCLUSION
Pamela A. Gibbs, Director
(202) 551-6046
OFFICE OF MUNICIPAL SECURITIES
Jessica Kane, Director
(202) 551-5680
OFFICE OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS
John Nester, Director
(202) 551-4120
OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY
Brent Fields, Secretary
(202) 551-5400
OFFICE OF SUPPORT OPERATIONS
Barry Walters, Director/Chief FOIA
Officer
(202) 551-8400

APPENDICES

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Regional Offices
ATLANTA REGIONAL OFFICE
Walter E. Jospin, Regional Director
950 East Paces Ferry Road NE,
Suite 900
Atlanta, GA 30326
(404) 842-7600
e-mail: atlanta@sec.gov
BOSTON REGIONAL OFFICE
Paul Levenson, Regional Director
33 Arch Street, Floor 23
Boston, MA 02110
(617) 573-8900
e-mail: boston@sec.gov
CHICAGO REGIONAL OFFICE
David Glockner, Regional Director
175 W. Jackson Boulevard, Suite 900
Chicago, IL 60604
(312) 353-7390
e-mail: chicago@sec.gov
DENVER REGIONAL OFFICE
Julie K. Lutz, Regional Director
1961 Stout Street, Suite 1700
Denver, CO 80294
(303) 844-1000
e-mail: denver@sec.gov

FORT WORTH REGIONAL OFFICE
Marshall Gandy and David Peavler,
Co-Acting Regional Directors
Burnett Plaza
801 Cherry Street
Suite 1900, Unit 18
Fort Worth, TX 76102
(817) 978-3821
e-mail: dfw@sec.gov

PHILADELPHIA REGIONAL OFFICE
Sharon Binger, Regional Director
One Penn Center
1617 John F. Kennedy Boulevard
Suite 520
Philadelphia, PA 19103
(215) 597-3100
e-mail: philadelphia@sec.gov

LOS ANGELES REGIONAL OFFICE
Michele Wein Layne, Regional Director
444 South Flower Street, Suite 900
Los Angeles, CA 90071
(323) 965-3998
e-mail: losangeles@sec.gov

SALT LAKE REGIONAL OFFICE
Richard Best, Regional Director
351 S. West Temple
Suite 6.100
Salt Lake City, UT 84101
(801) 524-5796
e-mail: saltlake@sec.gov

MIAMI REGIONAL OFFICE
Eric I. Bustillo, Regional Director
801 Brickell Avenue, Suite 1800
Miami, FL 33131
(305) 982-6300
e-mail: miami@sec.gov

SAN FRANCISCO REGIONAL OFFICE
Jina L. Choi, Regional Director
44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2800
San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 705-2500
e-mail: sanfrancisco@sec.gov

NEW YORK REGIONAL OFFICE
Andrew M. Calamari, Regional Director
Brookfield Place
200 Vesey Street, Suite 400
New York, NY 10281
(212) 336-1100
e-mail: newyork@sec.gov

161

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Appendix D: Glossary of Selected Terms
Advisers Act

Clawback Policies

The Investment Advisers Act of 1940 is a U.S. Federal law that
was created to regulate the actions of investment advisers.

Under the Dodd-Frank Act, all listed companies will eventually
be required to institute a mechanism for reclaiming executive pay
that had been granted under misstated earnings.

Agency Financial Report (AFR)
An annual requirement that provides financial and high-level
performance results that enable the President, Congress, and the
public to assess an agency’s accomplishments each fiscal year
(October 1 through September 30). This report includes audited
financial statements and provides an overview of an agency’s
programs, accomplishments, challenges, and management’s
accountability for entrusted resources. The report is prepared in
accordance with the requirements of Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) Circular A-136, Financial Reporting Requirements.
Under Circular A-136, agencies may prepare an Agency
Financial Report (AFR) and Annual Performance Report (APR),
or may combine these two reports into the Performance and
Accountability Report (PAR).

Collateralized Debt Obligation (CDO)
A type of structured asset-backed security (ABS) with multiple
“tranches” that are issued by special purpose entities and
collateralized by debt obligations including bonds and loans.
Each tranche offers a varying degree of risk and return so as to
meet investor demand.
Contracts-For-Difference (CFD)
An agreement between two parties to exchange the difference
between the opening price and closing price of a contract.
Credit Default Swap (CDS)

Alternative Trading System (ATS)

A financial swap agreement that the seller of the CDS will
compensate the buyer (usually the creditor of the reference loan)
in the event of a loan default (by the debtor) or other credit event.

A privately operated platform to trade securities outside of
traditional exchanges.

Custodial Activity

Annual Performance Report (APR)
A report that outlines goals and intended outcomes of an
agency’s programs and initiatives. This report provides program
performance and financial information that enables the President,
Congress, and the public to assess an agency’s performance and
accountability over entrusted resources.
Asset
An asset is a resource that embodies economic benefits or
services that the reporting entity controls.

Revenue that is collected, and its disposition, by a Federal
agency on behalf of other entities is accounted for as a custodial
activity of the collecting entity. SEC custodial collections include
amounts collected from violators of securities laws as a result of
enforcement proceedings.
Crowdfunding
In the JOBS Act, a new means of raising capital enabling the
raising of small amounts of equity capital without having to
register with the SEC.
Dark Pool

Backtesting
Testing a predictive model using existing historic data.

Alternative trading systems (ATS) that display little or no information
about customer orders are known as dark pools.

Statement of Cash Flows

Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA)

Reports a company’s inflows and outflows of cash over time
by classification.

An agreement where the defendant is granted certain provisions
providing the defendant fulfills specified requirements.

162

APPENDICES

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Deposit Fund

Fair Fund

Consists of funds that do not belong to the Federal Government,
such as disgorgement, penalties, and interest collected and held
on behalf of harmed investors, registrant monies held temporarily
until earned by the SEC, and collections awaiting disposition or
reclassification.

A fund created by the SEC to return money to harmed investors.

Derivative
A contract between two parties that specifies conditions (dates,
resulting values of the underlying variables, and notional amounts)
under which payments are to be made between the parties.
Disgorgement
A repayment of funds received or losses forgone, with interest,
as a result of illegal or unethical business transactions. Disgorged
funds are normally distributed to those affected by the action, but
in certain cases may be deposited in the U.S. Treasury General.
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act)
A Federal law that regulates the U.S. financial industry. The
legislation, enacted in July 2010, created new financial regulatory
processes that enforce transparency and accountability while
implementing rules for consumer protection.
EDGA and EDGX Exchanges
EDGA and EDGX are a type of electronic communication network
(ECN) that allows traders to trade with one another directly on an
exchange instead of having to go through a middleman.

Federal Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB)
A U.S. Federal advisory committee sponsored by the Secretary of
the Treasury, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB), and the Comptroller General of the United States, whose
mission is to develop generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) for the Federal Government.
Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act
Requires agencies to adjust its civil monetary penalties (CMP) for
inflation and requires them to make adjustments at least once
every four years thereafter.
Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA)
A law that requires Federal agencies to conduct annual
assessments of their information security and privacy programs,
develop and implement remediation efforts for identified
weaknesses and vulnerabilities, and report on compliance to the
Office of Management and Budget (OMB).
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. (FINRA)
A private corporation that acts as a self-regulatory organization
(SRO). FINRA is the successor to the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc. (NASD) and is a non-governmental
organization that performs financial regulation of member
brokerage firms and exchange markets. The Government
organization which acts as the ultimate regulator of the securities
industry, including FINRA, is the SEC.

Entity Assets
Assets that an agency is authorized to use in its operations. For
example, the SEC is authorized to use all funds in the Investor
Protection Fund (IPF) for its operations.

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA)

Entity Accounts Receivable

Fund Balance with Treasury (FBWT)

Monies owed to the SEC generated from securities transaction
fees and filing fees paid by registrants.

A Federal entity’s fund balance with the U.S. Treasury (FBWT)
is the amount of funds in the entity’s accounts with the U.S.
Treasury for which the entity is authorized to make expenditures
and pay liabilities and that have not been invested in Federal
securities.

Exchange Revenue
Exchange revenues are inflows of earned resources to an entity.
Exchange revenues arise from exchange transactions, which
occur when each party to the transaction sacrifices value and
receives value in return. Examples include the sale of goods and
services, entrance fees and most interest revenue.

Addresses transparency requirements under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and improper payments to foreign officials.

163

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Funds from Dedicated Collections

Investor Protection Fund (IPF)

Accounts containing specifically identified revenues, often
supplemented by other financing sources, that are required by
statute to be used for designated activities, benefits or purposes,
and must be accounted for separately from the Government’s
general revenues. For example, Investor Protection Fund (IPF)
resources are funds from dedicated collections and may only be
used for the purposes specified by the Dodd-Frank Act.

A fund established by the Dodd-Frank Act to pay awards to
whistleblowers. The program requires the Commission to pay
an award, under regulations prescribed by the Commission
and subject to certain limitations, to eligible whistleblowers who
voluntarily provide the Commission with original information about
a violation of Federal securities laws that leads to the successful
enforcement of a covered judicial or administrative action, or a
related action.

Gatekeepers
Enlistment of professionals such as attorneys, accountants
and other consultants, in helping to protect investors in our
financial systems in the detection and prevention of compliance
breakdowns and fraudulent schemes that cause investor harm.

Jumpstart Our Business Startups (JOBS) Act

General Funds – Salaries and Expenses

Liability

Appropriations by Congress that are used to carry out the agency’s
mission and day to day operations that may be used in accordance
with spending limits established by Congress.

A liability is a present obligation of the reporting entity to provide
assets or services to another entity at a determinable date, when
a specified event occurs, or on demand.

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP)

Market Based Treasury Securities

Framework of accounting standards, rules, and procedures
defined by the professional accounting industry. The Federal
Accounting Standards Advisory Board (FASAB) is the body
designated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accounting
(AICPA) as the source of GAAP for Federal reporting entities.

Debt securities that the U.S Treasury issues to Federal entities
without statutorily determined interest rates.

Imputed Financing

Miscellaneous Receipt Account

Financing provided to the reporting entity by another Federal
entity covering certain costs incurred by the reporting entity. For
example, some Federal employee retirement benefits are paid by
the Federal Government’s central personnel office, the Office of
Personnel Management (OPM). The SEC recognizes a financing
source and corresponding expense to represent its share of the
cost of providing pension and post-retirement health and life
insurance benefits to all eligible SEC employees.

A fund used to collect non-entity receipts from custodial activities
that the SEC cannot deposit into funds under its control or use
in its operations. These amounts are forwarded to the U.S.
Treasury General Fund and are considered to be non-entity
assets of the SEC.

A Federal law enacted on April 5, 2012 intended to encourage
small businesses within the U.S. by easing securities regulations
for those businesses.

Microcap Securities
Low priced stocks issued by the smallest of companies.

Municipalities Continuing Disclosure Cooperation (MCDC)

Insider Trading

An Enforcement initiative that offers favorable settlement to
municipal bond underwrites and issuers who self-report violations
of Federal securities laws to the SEC.

The buying or selling of a security by someone who has access
to material, nonpublic information about the security.

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board

Intragovernmental Costs
Costs that arise from the purchase of goods and services from
other components of the Federal Government.

164

Writes investor protection rules and other rules regulating brokerdealers and banks in the United States municipal securities
market, including tax-exempt and taxable municipal bonds,
municipal notes, and other securities issued by states, cities,
and counties or their agencies to help finance public projects or
for other public policy.

APPENDICES

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

NASDAQ

Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB)

The NASDAQ Stock Market, also known as simply NASDAQ, is an
American stock exchange. NASDAQ originally stood for National
Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotations. It is the
second-largest stock exchange by market capitalization in the
world, after the New York Stock Exchange.

A nonprofit corporation established by Congress to oversee
the audits of public companies in order to protect the interests
of investors and further the public interest in the preparation of
informative, accurate, and independent audit reports. The PCAOB
also oversees the audits of broker-dealers, including compliance
reports filed pursuant to Federal securities laws, to promote
investor protection.

Non-Entity Assets
Those assets that are held by an entity but are not available to the
entity. Examples of non-entity assets are disgorgement, penalties,
and interest collected and held on behalf of harmed investors.

Pump and Dump Schemes
A form of micro stock fraud involving artificially inflating the price of
an owned stock through false and misleading positive statements.

Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-123
Defines management’s responsibilities for internal financial controls
in Federal agencies.
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-136
Establishes a central point of reference for all Federal financial
reporting guidance for Executive Branch departments, agencies,
and entities required to submit audited financial statements,
interim financial statements, and Performance and Accountability
Reports (PAR), and Agency Financial Reports (AFR) under the
Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990 (CFO Act), the Accountability
of Tax Dollars Act of 2002, and Annual Management Reports
under the Government Corporations Control Act.
Operation Shell-Expel
A microcap fraud fighting initiative utilizing technology to scour the
over-the-counter marketplace and identify dorment companies
ripe for abuse.
Performance and Accountability Reports (PAR)
An annual report that provides program performance and financial
information that enables Congress, the President, and the public
to assess an agency’s performance and accountability over
entrusted resources.
Ponzi Scheme
A Ponzi scheme is a fraudulent scheme where returns to
established investors are paid with funds from new investors
rather than from profits.

Regulation A+
Expands Regulation A to enable smaller companies to offer and
sell up to $50 million of securities in a 12 month period, subject
to eligibility, disclosure and reporting requirements.
Reserve Fund
A fund established by the Dodd-Frank Act that may be used by the
SEC to obligate amounts up to a total of $100 million in one fiscal
year as the SEC determines it necessary to carry out its functions.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
An Act aimed at enhancing corporate responsibility, financial
disclosures, and fighting corporate and accounting fraud. The
Act created the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(PCAOB).
Section 31 Fees
Transaction fees paid to the SEC based on the volume of securities
that are sold on various markets. Under Section 31 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), self-regulatory
organizations (SROs) – such as the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (FINRA) and all of the national securities exchanges
(including the New York Stock Exchange) – must pay transaction
fees to the SEC based on the volume of securities that are sold
on their markets. These fees recover the costs incurred by the
Government, including the SEC, for supervising and regulating
the securities markets and securities professionals.

165

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act)

U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC)

A law governing the secondary trading of securities (stocks,
bonds, and debentures) in the United States. It was this piece
of legislation that established the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The Exchange Act and related statutes form the
basis of regulation of the financial markets and their participants
in the United States.

An independent agency of the U.S. Government that regulates
futures and option markets.

Self-Regulatory Organization (SRO)

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)

An organization that exercises some degree of regulatory authority
over an industry or profession. The regulatory authority could be
applied in addition to some form of Government regulation, or
it could fill the vacuum of an absence of Government oversight
and regulation. The ability of an SRO to exercise regulatory
authority does not necessarily derive from a grant of authority
from the Government.

The SEC is an independent agency of the U.S. Government
established pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(Exchange Act), charged with regulating the country’s capital
markets. It is charged with protecting investors, maintaining fair,
orderly and efficient markets; and facilitating capital formation.

Strategic Plan
A report initially required by the Government Performance and
Results Act (GPRA) that defines the agency mission, long-term
goals, strategies planned, and the approaches it will use to
monitor its progress in addressing specific national problems,
needs, challenges, and opportunities related to its mission. The
Plan also presents general and long term goals the agency aims
to achieve, what actions the agency will take to realize those
goals, and how the agency will deal with challenges and risks that
may hinder achieving result. Requirements for the Strategic Plan
are presented in OMB Circular A-11, Preparation, Submission
and Execution of the Budget.

166

U.S. Exchanges
A place (physical or virtual) where stock traders come together
to decide on the price of securities.

APPENDICES

•

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

Appendix E: Acronyms

ADA

Antideficiency Act

ETF

Exchange-Traded Funds

AFR

Agency Financial Report

Exchange Act

Securities Exchange Act of 1934

AP

Administrative Proceeding

FASAB

APR

Annual Performance Report

Federal Accounting Standards
Advisory Board

ATS

Alternative Trading Systems

FBWT

Fund Balance with Treasury

CAT

Consolidated Audit Trail

FCPA

Foreign Corrupt Practices Act

CCO

Chief Compliance Officer

FCPIA

CDO

Collateralized Debt Obligation

Federal Civil Penalties Inflations
Adjustment Act

CDS

Credit Default Swap

FECA

Federal Employees’ Compensation Act

CEAR

Certificate of Excellence in
Accountability Reporting

FedRAMP

Federal Risk and Authorization
Management Program

CEO

Chief Executive Officer

FERS

Federal Employees Retirement System

CFD

Contracts-For-Difference

FFMIA

Federal Financial Management
Improvement Act

CFO

Chief Financial Officer

FINRA

Financial Industry Regulatory Authority

CFR

Code of Federal Regulations

FISMA

CFTC

Commodities Futures Trading Commission

Federal Information Security
Management Act

CMBS

Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities

FMFIA

CLO

Collateralized Loan Obligation

Federal Managers’ Financial Integrity Act
of 1982

COO

Chief Operating Officer

FOIA

Freedom of Information Act

COR

Contracting Officers Representative

FSB

Financial Stability Board

CSRS

Civil Service Retirement System

FSSP

Federal Shared Service Provider

DCIA

Debt Collection Improvement Act

FTC

Federal Trade Commission

DERA

Division of Economic and Risk Analysis

FTE

Full-Time Equivalents

DNP

Do Not Pay

FY

Fiscal Year

GAAP

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

GAO

Government Accountability Office

Dodd-Frank Act Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and
Consumer Protection Act
DOL

U.S. Department of Labor

GPRA

Government Performance and Results Act

DOJ

U.S. Department of Justice

GSA

U.S. General Services Administration

DPA

Deferred Prosecution Agreement

ICFR

Internal Control over Financial Reporting

EDGAR

Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis
and Retrieval

IOSCO

International Organization of
Securities Commissions

ESC

Enterprise Service Center

167

2015 AGENCY FINANCIAL REPORT

•

APPENDICES

OMB

Office of Management and Budget

OMWI

Office of Minority and Women Inclusion

OPM

Office of Personnel Management

ORA

Office of Risk Assessment

OSI

Office of Strategic Initiatives

Internet Protocol (address)

OSO

Office of Support Operations

IPF

Investor Protection Fund

OTC

Over-the-Counter (trading)

IT

Information Technology

PCAOB

JOBS Act

Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act

Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board

MCDC

Municipalities Continuing Disclosure
Cooperation (Enforcement Initiative)

PII

Personally Identifiable Information

QAU

Quantitative Analysis Unit

MD&A

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

QRADS

MIDAS

Market Information Data and
Analytics System

Quantitative Research Analytical Data
Support (program)

RAE

Risk Analysis Examination Team

MSRB

Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board

RAS

Risk Analysis and Surveillance Group

NASDAQ

National Association of Securities Dealers
Automated Quotations

Reserve Fund

Securities and Exchange Commission
Reserve Fund

NEAT

National Exam Analytics Tool

RMBS

Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities

NEP

National Examination Program

S&P

Standard & Poor

NIST

National Institute of Standards
and Technology

S/L

Straight-Line

SBR

Statement of Budgetary Resources

NRSRO

Nationally Recognized Statistical
Rating Organization

SEC

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

SFFAS

OA

Office of Acquisitions

Statement of Federal Financial
Accounting Standards

QAU

Quantitative Analytics Unit

SIP

Securities Information Processor

OCIE

Office of Compliance Inspections
and Examinations

SIPA

Securities Investor Protection Act of 1970

SIPC

Securities Investor Protection Corporation

OCOO

Office of the Chief Operating Officer

SPFI

OD

Office of Distributions

Summary of Performance and
Financial Information

OFM

Office of Financial Management

SRO

Self-Regulatory Organization

OGC

Office of the General Counsel

SWG

Specialized Working Groups

OHR

Office of Human Resources

TCP

Technology Controls Program

OIA

Office of International Affairs

TCR

Tips, Complaints and Referrals

OIEA

Office of Investor Education and Advocacy

TSP

Thrift Savings Plan

OIG

Office of Inspector General

UDO

Undelivered Order

OIT

Office of Information Technology

XBRL

eXtensible Business Reporting Language

IPERA

Improper Payments Elimination and
Recovery Act of 2010

IPERIA

Improper Payments Elimination and
Recovery Improvement Act of 2012

IPIA

Improper Payments Information Act
of 2002

IP

168

This Agency Financial Report was produced through the energies and talents of the SEC staff. To these
individuals we offer our sincerest thanks and acknowledgement. We would also like to acknowledge
the Government Accountability Office and the SEC ’s Office of Inspector General for the professional
manner in which they conducted the audit of the FY 2015 financial statements. Finally, we offer special
thanks to AOC Solutions and The DesignPond for their contributions in the design and production of
this report. To comment on this report, please send an e-mail to SECAFR@sec.gov.

U.S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549

