SEC-56
SYSTEM NAME:
Mailing, Contact and Other Lists.
SYSTEM LOCATION:
Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Records
are also maintained in the SEC Regional Offices.
CATEGORIES OF INDIVIDUALS COVERED BY THE SYSTEM:
Records contain information related to individuals and employees who submit requests
for information, subscriptions, inquiries, guidance, informal advice and other assistance
to the SEC in any format, including but not limited to paper, telephone, and electronic
submissions; SEC personnel assigned to handle such correspondence; individuals who
have registered for SEC events, such as seminars, training programs or compliance
meetings; and individuals who have responded to questionnaires, request forms and
feedback forms.
CATEGORIES OF RECORDS IN THE SYSTEM:
Records may contain information relating to but not limited to name, title, affiliation,
mailing address, telephone number, cell phone number, fax number, email address,
business affiliation, other contact and related supporting information provided to the
Commission by individuals or derived from other sources covered by this system of
records and not currently covered under an existing SORN.
AUTHORITY FOR MAINTENANCE OF THE SYSTEM:
15 U.S.C. 77a et seq., 78a et seq., 80a-1 et seq., and 80b-1 et seq.
PURPOSE(S):
1. To track and process complaints/inquiries/requests/comments and communications
from members of the public, including industry representatives, counsel, and others.
2. To handle subscription requests for informational literature, reports, and other SEC
materials, via individual, mass, and targeted mailing in the furtherance of SEC
activities.
3. To process registration to SEC-related activities and events, and allow the sharing of
personal contact information of registrants who consent to the sharing of their
personal information at the time of registration.
ROUTINE USES OF RECORDS MAINTAINED IN THE SYSTEM, INCLUDING
CATEGORIES OF USERS AND THE PURPOSES OF SUCH USES:
In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy
Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside
the Commission as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows:
1. When (1) it is suspected or confirmed that the security or confidentiality of information
in the system of records has been compromised; (2) the SEC has determined that as a
result of the suspected or confirmed compromise there is a risk of harm to economic or
property interests, identity theft or fraud, or harm to the security or integrity of this
1

system or other systems or programs (whether maintained by the SEC or another agency
or entity) that rely upon the compromised information; and (3) the disclosure is made to
such agencies, entities, and persons who are reasonably necessary to assist in connection
with the SEC’s efforts to respond to the suspected or confirmed compromise and
prevent, minimize, or remedy such harm.
2. Where there is an indication of a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil,
criminal or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular
program statute, or by regulation, rule or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant
records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate
agency, whether federal, state, local, foreign or a securities self- regulatory organization
charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged
with enforcing or implementing the statute, or rule, regulation or order issued pursuant
thereto.
3. Records in this system may, in the discretion of the Commission's staff, be disclosed to
any person during the course of any inquiry or investigation conducted by the
Commission staff, or in connection with civil litigation, if the staff has reason to believe
that the person to whom the record is disclosed may have further information about the
matters related therein, and those matters appeared to be relevant at the time to the
subject matter of the inquiry.
4. A record or information in this system may be disclosed to any person with whom the
Commission contracts to reproduce, by typing, photocopy or other means, any record
within this system for use by the Commission and its staff in connection with their
official duties or to any person who is utilized by the Commission to perform clerical or
stenographic functions relating to the official business of the Commission.
5. Records or information in records contained in this system may be disclosed to
members of advisory committees that are created by the Commission or by Congress to
render advice and recommendations to the Commission or to Congress, to be used
solely in connection with their official, designated functions.
6. Disclosure may be made to a Congressional office from the record of an individual in
response to an inquiry from the Congressional office made at the request of that
individual.
7. To interns, grantees, experts and contractors who have been engaged by the
Commission to assist in the performance of a service related to this system of
records and who need access to the records for the purpose of assisting the
Commission in the efficient administration of its programs. Recipients of these
records shall be required to comply with the requirements of the Privacy Act of
1974, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a.
8. To individuals who register for SEC-sponsored seminars, training programs or
compliance meetings, such as the CCOutreach Program.
POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR STORING, RETRIEVING, ACCESSING,
RETAINING, AND DISPOSING OF RECORDS IN THE SYSTEM:
STORAGE:
Records are maintained in electronic format, paper form, magnetic disk and tape.
Electronic records are stored in computerized databases. Paper, magnetic disk or tape
records are stored in locked file rooms or file cabinets.
2

RETRIEVABILITY:
Records may be retrieved by any of the following: email address, name, or an assigned
file number for the purpose of responding to the requestor. Information may additionally
be retrieved by other personal identifiers.
SAFEGUARDS:
Records are safeguarded in a secured environment. Buildings where records are stored
have security cameras and 24 hour security guard service. The records are kept in limited
access areas during duty hours and in locked file cabinets and/or locked offices or file
rooms at all other times. Access is limited to those personnel whose official duties require
access. Computerized records are safeguarded through use of access codes and
information technology security. Contractors and other recipients providing services to
the Commission are contractually obligated to maintain equivalent safeguards.
RETENTION AND DISPOSAL:
These records will be maintained until they become inactive, at which time they will be
retired or destroyed in accordance with records schedules of the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission and as approved by the National Archives and Records
Administration.
SYSTEM MANAGER(S) AND ADDRESS:
For SEC Headquarters
U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
Components: Office of the Chairman and Commissioners, Division of Corporation
Finance, Division of Trading and Markets, Division of Investment Management, Division
of Enforcement, Office of the General Counsel, Office of the Chief Accountant , Office of
Economic Analysis, Office of Compliance Inspections and Examinations, Office of
International Affairs, Office of Investor Education and Advocacy, Office of Information
Technology, Office of the Executive Director, Office of Human Resources, Office of
Financial Management, Office of Administrative Services, Office of Risk Assessment,
Office of the Inspector General, Office of Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs,
Office of Public Affairs, Office of the Secretary, Office of Equal Employment
Opportunity, and Office of Administrative Law Judges.
For Regional Offices
New York Regional Office, Regional Director, 3 World Financial Center, Suite 400, New
York, NY 10281-1022; Boston Regional Office, Regional Director, 33 Arch Street, 23rd
Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1424; Philadelphia Regional Office, Regional Director, The
Mellon Independence Center, 701 Market Street, Suite 2000, Philadelphia, PA 191061532; Miami Regional Office, Regional Director, 801 Brickell Avenue, Suite 1800,
Miami, FL 33131-4901, Atlanta Regional Office, Regional Director, 3475 Lenox Road,
NE, Suite 1000, Atlanta, GA 30326-1232; Chicago Regional Office, Regional Director,
175 West Jackson Boulevard, Suite 900, Chicago, IL 60604-2908; Denver Regional
Office, Regional Director, 1801 California Street, Suite 1500, Denver, CO 80202-2656;
Fort Worth Regional Office, Regional Director, Burnett Plaza, Suite 1900, 801 Cherry
Street, Unit #18, Fort Worth, TX 76102-6882; Salt Lake Regional Office, Regional
Director, 15 West South Temple Street, Suite 1800, Salt Lake City, UT 84101-1573; Los
Angeles Regional Office, Regional Director, 5670 Wilshire Boulevard, 11th Floor, Los
3

Angeles, CA 90036-3648; San Francisco Regional Office, Regional Director, 44
Montgomery Street, Suite 2600, San Francisco, CA 94104-4716.
NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE:
All requests to determine whether this system of records contains a record pertaining to
the requesting individual may be directed to the FOIA/PA Officer, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-5100.
RECORD ACCESS PROCEDURES:
Persons wishing to obtain information on the procedures for gaining access to or contesting
the contents of these records may contact the FOIA/PA Officer, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-5100.
CONTESTING RECORD PROCEDURES:
See Record Access Procedures above.
RECORD SOURCE CATEGORIES:
The information is supplied by the individual and/or company making the request; or the
individual who has registered for an SEC-related event such as a seminar, training
program or compliance meeting. Data may also be added pertaining to the fulfillment of
the request. Information may also be obtained from other SEC records systems.
EXEMPTIONS CLAIMED FOR THE SYSTEM:
None.

4

