Planning for the Future

Strategic Plan
U. S . S e c u r i t i e s a n d E x c h a n g e C o m m i s s i o n

FISCAL YEARS 2010–2015

This document represents the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s fourth strategic
plan prepared in accordance with the Government Performance and Results Act of 1993.
The plan sets out the Commission’s mission, vision, values, and strategic goals for fiscal years
2010 through 2015. After the plan surveys the forces shaping the SEC’s environment, it then
details the outcomes the agency is seeking to achieve, the strategies and initiatives that will
be undertaken to accomplish those outcomes, and the performance measures that will be used
to gauge the agency’s progress.
Comments on this Strategic Plan should be directed to strategicplan@sec.gov.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015

i

Message from the Chairman
Protecting investors is our core mission. And, everything we do is with that goal in mind.
When we shut down an insider trading scheme, we are protecting investors. When we
detect fraud during an examination, we are protecting investors. When we adopt rules or
provide guidance to ensure fair markets or to provide investors with the information that they
need, we are protecting investors.
And, when we devised our Strategic Plan for 2010-2015, investor protection was the
thread woven throughout.
It makes sense because the SEC’s success as the nation’s securities market regulator rests
squarely on our ability to establish and maintain a market in which the interests of investors
are paramount.
This Strategic Plan is ambitious. Through the activities described, we are committing
ourselves to even stronger enforcement of our securities laws; even more focus on fair and
transparent markets; even tougher oversight of those market participants that are registered
with the Commission; even higher quality investor-oriented information; and even more
effective use of our own resources.
Successful implementation of this Plan will require two things. First, internally, we must
continue to drive ourselves as hard as possible. We must maintain our investor-first focus, and
must continue to look for ways to build our expertise while also increasing our effectiveness.
Second, we must have access to sufficient resources to hire the necessary staff, obtain the
necessary expertise, and secure the necessary technology. As is more fully described in the
“Resources” section of the Plan, adequate budgets, over the long run are essential.
The Plan also outlines specific performance metrics. Many of the measures reflect
new and innovative approaches for gauging how we are doing as an agency.  Collectively,
these measures take a much broader view of the work of the agency and the impact it has
in fulfilling its mission.  We will track our performance against these metrics, and report
annually on how we are doing.
This Plan was prepared with significant involvement of our staff, and I thank them for
their continued dedication. I also urge each employee to take this Plan to heart; let it guide
each of us as we continue to work for America’s investors.

Mary L. Schapiro
Chairman
June 7, 2010

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015

iii

Table of Contents
Mission, Vision, and Values . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1

Strategic Goals and Outcomes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2

Environmental Perspective and Outlook . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

3

SEC Resources . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

6

Strategic Goal 1: Foster and enforce compliance with the federal securities laws . . . .

8

Strategic Goal 2: Establish an effective regulatory environment . . . . . . . . . . . . .

20

Strategic Goal 3: Facilitate access to the information investors need to make
informed investment decisions. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

32

Strategic Goal 4: Enhance the Commission’s performance through effective
alignment and management of human, information, and financial capital . . . . . . . .

39

Program Evaluation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

49

For further information on selected terms and topics, please see “Fast Answers” at
http://www.sec.gov/answers.shtml.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015

v

Mission
The mission of the SEC is to protect investors; maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets;
and facilitate capital formation.

Vision
The SEC strives to promote a market environment that is worthy of the public’s trust and
characterized by transparency and integrity.

Values
Integrity: As the SEC is the federal agency entrusted with regulating and conducting
enforcement for the U.S. securities markets, each member of the agency’s workforce has a
responsibility to demonstrate the highest ethical standards to inspire confidence and trust.
Accountability: The SEC embraces the responsibility with which it is charged. In carrying out
its mission, SEC employees hold themselves accountable to the public and take responsibility
for achieving SEC goals.
Effectiveness: The SEC strives to work creatively, proactively, and effectively in assessing and
addressing risks to the securities markets, the public, and other market participants. The
staff is committed to finding innovative and flexible approaches to the Commission’s work
and using independent judgment to explore new ways to fulfill the SEC’s mission in the most
efficient and effective manner possible.
Teamwork: The SEC recognizes that its success depends on a diverse, coordinated team
committed to the highest standards of trust, hard work, cooperation, and communication. The
staff is committed to working together and coordinating effectively with investors, business,
governments, and other organizations in the U.S. and abroad.
Fairness: In exercising its regulatory and enforcement powers, the SEC treats investors,
market participants, and others fairly and in accordance with the law. As an employer, the
SEC seeks to hire and retain a skilled and diverse workforce, and to ensure that all decisions
affecting employees and applicants are fair and ethical. As professionals, the staff treats all
with respect and dignity.
Commitment to Excellence: The SEC is committed to the highest standards of excellence in
pursuit of the agency’s mission. The investing public and the U.S. securities markets deserve
nothing less.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 1

Strategic Goals and Outcomes
Strategic Goal 1: Foster and enforce compliance with the federal securities laws
Outcome 1.1: The SEC fosters compliance with the federal securities laws.
Outcome 1.2: The SEC promptly detects violations of the federal securities laws.
Outcome 1.3: The SEC prosecutes violations of federal securities laws and holds
violators accountable.

Strategic Goal 2: Establish an effective regulatory environment
Outcome 2.1: The SEC establishes and maintains a regulatory environment that
promotes high-quality disclosure, financial reporting, and governance, and that
prevents abusive practices by registrants, financial intermediaries, and other market
participants.
Outcome 2.2: The U.S. capital markets operate in a fair, efficient, transparent, and
competitive manner, fostering capital formation and useful innovation.
Outcome 2.3: The SEC adopts and administers rules and regulations that enable
market participants to understand clearly their obligations under the securities laws.

Strategic Goal 3: Facilitate access to the information investors need to make
informed investment decisions
Outcome 3.1: Investors have access to high-quality disclosure materials that are useful
to investment decision making.
Outcome 3.2: Agency rulemaking and investor education programs are informed by an
understanding of the wide range of investor needs.

Strategic Goal 4: Enhance the Commission’s performance through effective alignment
and management of human, information, and financial capital
Outcome 4.1: The SEC maintains a work environment that attracts, engages, and
retains a technically proficient and diverse workforce that can excel and meet the
dynamic challenges of market oversight.
Outcome 4.2: The SEC retains a diverse team of world-class leaders who provide
motivation and strategic direction to the SEC workforce.
Outcome 4.3: Information within and available to the SEC becomes a Commissionwide shared resource, appropriately protected, that enables a collaborative and
knowledge-based working environment.
Outcome 4.4: Resource decisions and operations reflect sound financial and risk
management principles.
2 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Environmental Perspective & Outlook
The SEC’s goals and priorities are influenced by a number of external environmental factors,
including the demands of fulfilling its mission in complex and global financial markets and
the legislative construct within which we work. During the past two years, this environment
has changed dramatically, and it is almost certain that further significant changes are on the
horizon. While this Strategic Plan attempts to anticipate various ways in which our markets,
regulated industries and legislative underpinnings may transform over time, no plan can
anticipate all possible scenarios. The following discussion outlines the agency’s perspective
and outlook on the most significant environmental factors that have influenced—and are
expected to continue to influence—the SEC’s fulfillment of its mission.

The Global Financial Markets
During the past several years, the financial markets have become increasingly complex and
global in nature. Throughout the world, industries, products, and practices have continuously
evolved in these markets, and capital has flowed across international borders.
The global financial markets are in the midst of significant challenges, however. The
subprime mortgage crisis exposed weaknesses in financial industry regulation and the global
financial system. The abrupt end to a broad credit boom—which included widespread declines
in underwriting standards, breakdowns in lending oversight, overly generous credit ratings,
and increased reliance on complex and opaque credit instruments—had pervasive financial
and economic ramifications. Businesses, both large and small, failed because of the absence
of a viable credit market. Several major financial institutions collapsed, were acquired under
duress, or became subject to government control. A money market fund that “broke the buck”
led to a “run” on certain money market funds.
As investors sought the most stable markets, credit spreads reached historic highs and
many fixed-income and short-term loan markets essentially ceased to function. Stock prices
in every major country plummeted, and in October 2008, the Dow Jones Industrial Average
suffered its worst weekly loss in its 112-year history. By March 2009, the Dow had dropped
more than 50 percent from its mid-2008 peak. Between June 2007 and November 2008,
Americans lost more than a quarter of their net worth. By early November 2008, the value of
retirement, savings, and investment assets suffered dramatic losses, and housing prices had
dropped 20 percent from their 2006 peak.
During the past two years, national governments and international organizations
have taken significant steps both to stem further economic deterioration and to prevent a
recurrence of the factors that helped cause it. The SEC, as an independent and integrated
capital markets regulator, has and will continue to play a vital role in these efforts and will
coordinate with other regulators and enforcement authorities to that end. As we do so, the
financial crisis and the complex and global nature of the markets will present continuing
challenges.
Financial products and practices are always evolving in the U.S. and global capital
markets. This was true before the current crisis, and will be equally true for the foreseeable
future. While (as described below) reform efforts may address current regulatory gaps,
complexity in the capital markets is here to stay. Moreover, it is impossible to predict with
certainty how the markets will evolve and what new issues will arise. We do know that the
search for higher or more stable returns will foster the development of new products and
different practices. Today’s market environment always resists stasis.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 3

Evolving Regulatory Reform
In June 2009, the U.S. Department of the Treasury published key objectives for reform of the
financial regulatory system. (Financial Regulatory Reform: A New Foundation) These reforms
focus on:
■■

Strengthening regulation over financial institutions, particularly those that may pose
unregulated risk to the country’s financial system, including requiring advisers to hedge
funds and other private pools of capital to register with the SEC.

■■

Establishing more comprehensive supervision of the financial markets, including new
requirements for market transparency, robust regulation of over-the-counter derivatives,
stronger regulation of credit rating agencies, and a requirement that issuers and
originators retain a financial interest in securitized loans.

■■

Protecting consumers of and investors in financial products from abuse, including
by expanding SEC authority over mutual fund disclosure, aligning the duties of
intermediaries across financial products, and paying whistleblowers for information
that leads to enforcement actions resulting in significant financial sanctions.

■■

Providing the government with better tools for dealing with future financial crises.

■■

Raising international regulatory standards and cooperation, including working
toward improvement of accounting standards in the wake of the credit crisis and the
development of a single set of high quality global accounting standards.

Since that time, the Treasury has proposed several legislative initiatives aimed at
furthering the objectives. Members of Congress, the President’s Working Group on Financial
Markets, and others have debated and will continue to debate these recommendations
during the coming months, and final approaches may significantly differ from those
recommended. Notwithstanding some uncertainty as to the precise outline of the future
legislative landscape, the SEC is using the lessons learned from the financial crisis to make
improvements in areas already within its purview—that is, the agency’s own operations as
well as its regulations. These improvements include the following:
■■

Safeguarding investors through proposed rules related to custody of assets held by
investment advisers;

■■

Enhancing risk-based examinations of financial firms;

■■

Improving fraud detection techniques and enhancing targeted training;

■■

Developing and integrating further risk assessment tools and techniques across the
agency;

■■

Revamping the handling of complaints and tips;

■■

Recruiting additional staff with specialized industry expertise;

■■

Expanding the scope and reach of enforcement staff through streamlined procedures, a
restructured organization, and creation of specialized units;

■■

Bolstering the regulatory regime for credit rating agencies;

4 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

■■

Strengthening the money market fund regulatory regime; and

■■

Exploring whether additional regulation is appropriate to address potentially abusive
short selling.

Continuing Risks
Many of the initiatives outlined in this Strategic Plan are designed to address specific
problems brought to light by the global financial crisis. Despite best efforts, however, it is
impossible to predict and plan for all potential challenges. The degree of the agency’s success
in achieving its goals and outcomes may depend upon factors such as those listed below.
■■

The goals and outcomes outlined in this Strategic Plan are dependent upon the SEC
obtaining significantly enhanced resources, in terms of number of staff, the expertise
that the agency is able to recruit and retain, and the information systems that we are
able to effectively deploy.

■■

A prolonged delay in recovery of the global financial system—and the global economy
supported by that system—could result in further stress on all market participants and
potentially alter behavior in unanticipated ways.

■■

Legislative and regulatory changes may not be successful in providing regulators with
a comprehensive understanding of systemic risk or sufficient tools to manage that risk
more effectively.

■■

Reform of financial industry regulation may drive those whose activity is curtailed to
other harmful actions or may unintentionally hamper behavior that would benefit the
market and investors.

■■

Over-regulation or under-regulation may undermine the competitiveness of the U.S.
capital markets in an increasingly competitive global marketplace.

■■

Over-regulation or under-regulation may chill innovation, entrepreneurship, and
prudent risk taking.

■■

Regulations should not be perceived as a substitute for care and diligence on the part of
investors in their own decision making.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 5

SEC Resources
The SEC is an independent federal government agency funded through annual appropriations
enacted by Congress and the President. These appropriations are offset by fees the agency
collects on securities transactions, registrations, and merger/tenders. The SEC sets the rates
for these fees in accordance with the Investor and Capital Markets Fee Relief Act, which
reduced the overall amount of the SEC’s fee collections and established annual collections
targets for registration fees and transaction fees during the FY 2002–2011 period. Since the
passage of the Act in 2002, the SEC’s fee collections have exceeded the SEC’s funding levels,
as shown in the chart below.

Figure 1. Comparison of SEC Fee Collections and SEC Funding Levels
2000

Millions $

1500
1000
500
0

2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

SEC Funding Levels

2007

2008

2009

2010*

2011*

SEC Fee Collections

* For FY 2010 through FY 2011, the figures shown for projected fee collections are equal to the sum of the
annual collections targets specified in the Investor and Capital Markets Fee Relief Act for registration fees and
transaction fees.

The recent history of the SEC’s annual appropriations illustrates how the agency’s funding
levels can vary over time. Between FY 2001 and FY 2005, Congress more than doubled the
SEC’s funding level to increase significantly the agency’s workforce and technology program
after the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Then, the SEC experienced flat or
declining budgets between FY 2005 and FY 2007, resulting in a 10 percent reduction in
its workforce and curtailing its investments in new or enhanced information technology
systems. Although the FY 2008 and FY 2009 budgets enacted by Congress have permitted
the agency to begin restoring these losses, as of FY 2009 the SEC is still operating below the
levels of staff and new IT investments from earlier in the decade. Such variances in annual
appropriations can present significant challenges for the agency as it seeks to craft and
implement long-term strategies.
In addition, at the beginning of each fiscal year since 2000, the SEC has lacked a regular
appropriation and therefore has had to operate under a continuing resolution, often for
months at a time. (A continuing resolution is a stop-gap funding measure approved by
Congress to maintain government operations, typically at the previous year’s funding levels,
in the absence of a regular appropriation.) In all, the SEC has spent more than one-quarter of
6 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

the time during the last ten fiscal years (between FY 2000 and FY 2009) under a continuing
resolution. As a result, the SEC must restrain spending during the early months of each fiscal
year to fit within the constraints of each continuing resolution. In addition, because of the
delay in enactment of a regular appropriation, the SEC has less time during each fiscal year
to implement the initiatives and activities funded under that regular appropriation. This
compounds the challenges inherent in implementing long-term plans.
While during the last several years SEC budgets have not always been sufficient to
maintain staffing levels and make important technology investments, the demands on SEC
resources have continued to grow. For example, the number of tips and complaints received
by the SEC’s enforcement program rose by 146 percent between FY 2003 and FY 2008, to
over 600,000 per fiscal year. In addition, the investment adviser industry overseen by the
SEC has grown by 47 percent in the number of registrants and approximately 60 percent in
assets under management between FY 2003 and July 2009. In all, in 2009 the SEC’s 3,652 fulltime equivalents oversaw a total of more than 35,000 entities, including about 12,000 public
companies, more than 11,000 investment advisers, about 8,000 mutual funds, and about 5,500
broker-dealers, as well as national securities exchanges and self-regulatory organizations,
transfer agents, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (PCAOB), alternate trading systems, and credit rating agencies.
Swiftly developing markets hold implications not only for the sheer range and volume of
activity the SEC must undertake, but also the sophistication of the tools it needs to have at
its disposal. As financial products and the relationships among market participants become
increasingly complex, SEC employees must continually upgrade their skills and stay abreast
of market developments. The SEC’s technology systems also must be able to handle a rapidly
growing volume of information in emails, hard drives, and other media gathered during
investigations and examinations; analyze the large amounts of financial data generated by
securities market activity; and rival the increasingly sophisticated technologies of opposing
counsel.
For these reasons, the sufficiency of the SEC’s budgetary resources is a key factor that will
affect the agency’s success over the next five years. The SEC will continue working to secure
the resources necessary to fulfill its critical mission and achieve the goals and outcomes
outlined in this Strategic Plan. This will include analysis of, and discussions with Congress
and the Administration about, moving to a self-funding structure. A self-funding structure
would provide the SEC a stable, long term funding source as well as the ability to plan
strategically for several years, similar to the other federal financial regulators.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 7

Strategic Goal 1:
Foster and enforce compliance with the federal securities laws

“Our securities markets demand a strong, vigorous, independent and fair regulator.
The SEC must craft clear and understandable regulations, actively promote a culture
of compliance by all market participants, and enforce aggressively and impartially
the laws and regulations on the books. In the end, the vitality of our securities
markets depends on the success of these efforts.”
COMMISSIONER KATHLEEN L. CASEY

“To fulfill our mission, regulation must be more than the laws and rules on the
books. I believe that laws and rules that are effectively implemented, and vigorously
enforced, form the basis for a robust regulatory regime. I am committed to a strong
SEC that exemplifies these principles.”
COMMISSIONER LUIS A. AGUILAR

FOSTERING COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS is interwoven through all
of the Commission’s programs and is central to fulfilling its mission of protecting investors;
maintaining fair, orderly and efficient markets; and facilitating capital formation. Through
disclosure reviews and examinations of broker-dealers, investment advisers, self-regulatory
organizations (SROs) and other market participants, the SEC seeks both to detect violations
of the securities laws and rules and to foster strong compliance and risk management
practices within these firms and organizations. When violations do occur, the SEC investigates
and brings enforcement actions against regulated persons and entities, as well as other
market participants. These actions span the broad spectrum of securities laws, including,
among others, matters of financial disclosure, securities offerings, insider trading, and market
manipulation. The SEC strives to take prompt action to stop the misconduct, penalize the
wrongdoers, and, where possible, return funds to harmed investors. These critical investor
protection functions contribute to investors’ confidence in our capital markets.
As described further below, the SEC is instituting extensive reforms of its programs
to foster and enforce compliance with the federal securities laws, to address issues raised
by the agency’s failure to detect the Ponzi scheme operated by Bernard Madoff. These
reforms include vastly expanding the SEC’s training programs, hiring staff with new skill
sets, streamlining management, putting seasoned investigators on the front lines, revising
enforcement and examination procedures, restructuring processes to ensure better sharing
of information, leveraging the knowledge of third parties, revamping the way the SEC
handles the hundreds of thousands of tips the agency receives annually, and improving riskassessment techniques so that examiners are knocking on the right doors and delving into the
right issues. There is much to be done in this area and it will require long-term commitment
8 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

and creativity. The acquisition of specialized skill sets and needed technology will require the
SEC and Congress to work together to make these priorities a reality.

Outcome 1.1: The SEC fosters compliance with the federal securities laws.
While detecting violations of the federal securities laws is an integral aspect of the
Commission’s programs (see Outcome 1.2, below), working to prevent future violations
can be even more important to protecting investors and enhancing market integrity. The
Commission’s goal is to encourage regulated entities and reporting companies to do all that
they reasonably can to identify possible compliance pitfalls and take preventative action
before a violation occurs.
Initiatives designed to foster greater compliance with securities laws run throughout this
Strategic Plan. They include efforts designed to provide investors with information they need
so that they can wisely select and monitor their investments and professional intermediaries
(see Outcome 3.1); to ensure that rules are written in an understandable way, so that those
changed with compliance clearly understand their responsibilities (see Outcome 2.3); to
create, as appropriate, prophylactic rules that prevent abusive trading or marketing practices
(see Outcome 2.2); and to enhance incentives for regulated entities and reporting companies
to self-correct (see Outcome 1.2).
Organizations vary significantly in terms of resources committed to compliance, in their
level of sophistication, and in their ability to keep abreast of changes in the industry and in
the regulatory environment. The SEC seeks to encourage within organizations of all sizes
a strong “culture of compliance”—an environment, from top leadership down, that fosters
ethical behavior and decision making. Simply put, this means instilling in every employee an
obligation to do what is right. This philosophy should underpin all that the firm does, so that
when employees make decisions, large and small, they are guided by a culture that reinforces
acting in both a legal and ethical manner.
The SEC supports and encourages strong compliance efforts among publicly traded
companies, investment companies, investment advisers, broker-dealers, issuers, and auditors.
The SEC also seeks to promote general compliance with the securities laws by everyone who
participates in our capital markets.

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Promote investor awareness: The SEC will issue investor alerts and other education
initiatives designed to both arm investors to be their own first line of defense
against fraud and other violations, and to assist them in understanding the role of
intermediaries and new products. With this knowledge, investors will be better equipped
to identify market participants with strong compliance programs, which should limit
opportunities for investor abuse.

■■

Expand outreach efforts for promoting compliance practices: The SEC will enhance
efforts to promote compliance by more proactive communications with registrants
and their personnel, including chief compliance officers. These efforts will include
expanding participation in CCOutreach; disseminating more expansive and targeted
materials to firms by means of Compliance Alerts; detailing areas where examiners have
identified significant compliance deficiencies, best practices identified by examiners or
industry groups, and rule changes; and raising registrant awareness of the seriousness of
certain exam findings by holding post-examination compliance conferences.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 9

■■

Increase deterrence through enhanced communication strategies: To deter future
violations of the federal securities laws, the SEC will improve the quality, quantity,
and means of communicating important information resulting from high impact
Commission action. Such information might include major legal or other emerging
issues arising in enforcement cases, matters of significance due to the size or
magnitude of a fraud or the number of individuals affected by the Commission action,
opportunities to improve corporate disclosure or accounting practices, or information
relating to the adequacy or inadequacy of compliance efforts or remedial actions
undertaken by persons involved in such cases. 

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Number of new investor
education materials designed
specifically to help investors
protect themselves from
fraud

Through its Office of Investor Education and Advocacy
(“OIEA”), and often in conjunction with other organizations,
the agency issues Investor Alerts and other forms of
educational material that inform investors about new or
different permutations of fraud.

Target: To Be Determined *
Number of industry outreach
and education programs
targeted to areas identified as
raising particular compliance
risks
Target: To Be Determined *
Percentage of firms receiving
deficiency letters that take
corrective action in response
to all exam findings
Target: 95%
Percentage of attendees
at CCOutreach that rated
the program as “Useful” or
“Extremely Useful” in their
compliance efforts
Target: 92%

Targeted communication with industry participants on topics
shaping the examination program is intended to enhance
compliance practices and prevent violations before they
occur. This measure identifies the number of major outreach
efforts conducted including the agency’s national and regional
CCOutreach events, published Compliance Alerts, and other
educational initiatives.
At the conclusion of examinations, the staff communicates
identified deficiencies to registrants in the form of a deficiency
letter. Registrants are then given a chance to respond to staff
findings and often take action to remedy any problems and
potential risks. Most often, registrants respond that they
have corrected the deficiencies and implemented measures to
prevent recurrence.
The CCOutreach program is designed to educate, inform, and
alert CCOs of pertinent information, including about effective
compliance controls, that may assist them in administering
compliance programs within registered firms. Improving
compliance programs will reduce violative activity, resulting
in increased protection for investors. At the conclusion of all
CCOutreach events, CCOs are given the opportunity to rate
the usefulness of the information provided in assisting them
in their compliance efforts.

* This performance metric is new for the SEC. The agency plans to begin collecting this information and
determine the current, baseline level for this metric before establishing a target.

10 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Related Indicators
The following indicators are useful for understanding the SEC’s activities in this area, but
should not be considered performance measures and do not include targets that the agency
will strive to reach in future years. The agency chose not to include targets because it would
be inappropriate to conduct these activities with any eye towards hitting predetermined
numerical targets rather than evaluating the facts as presented.
Indicator

Description

Percentage of actions
identified as “high impact”
which have resulted in
significant corrective
industry reaction

The Commission is striving to enhance communication
resulting from high impact action, as discussed above. This
indicator will examine how market participants, whose
behavior is intended to most be influenced by the enhanced
communication, react to action. For example, are the issues
raised by the Commission action discussed in prominent
private sector educational forums or literature?

Annual increases or
decreases in the number of
CCOs attending CCOutreach
programs

While the raw number of CCOs in the industry may vary
depending on factors outside of the SEC’s control, the
Commission seeks to provide educational programs that are
highly valued by attendees and their employers. Analyzing
changes in participation levels will foster continued
improvement in both program content and outreach efforts.

Outcome 1.2: The SEC promptly detects violations of the federal securities laws.
Violations of the securities laws have tremendous impact on investors. Accordingly, prompt
detection of potential securities law violations is important in limiting the harm caused to
investors. By identifying violations early, the SEC seeks to punish wrongdoers promptly,
correct violative behavior in the financial markets before it proliferates, stop fraud and
manipulation before it affects a large number of investors, and locate and preserve investors’
assets before they are squandered or dissipated.
Detecting violations of the federal securities laws is a difficult but critical function, and
one in which the agency continuously seeks to improve its efforts. In the midst of constantly
evolving financial markets, the SEC seeks to strengthen its oversight of the large number
of registrants by focusing its resources on the areas most at risk for fraud or other serious
violations that could harm investors. This risk-based approach, which the agency continually
seeks to refine, is implemented across agency programs through various methodologies aimed
at identifying, assessing and managing risks to investors.
In addition, each year the SEC receives hundreds of thousands of tips and complaints, as
well as referrals from SROs, that staff analyze to determine matters requiring investigation.
The agency works closely with others—SROs, the Department of Justice and other criminal
authorities, and state, federal, and foreign regulators—to maximize the breadth and depth of
our combined efforts. The SEC has substantial initiatives underway to improve these agency
functions, which will greatly enhance the agency’s detection efforts.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 11

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Improve management of tips and complaints: The SEC will centralize the process for
receiving, processing, and acting upon tips, complaints and referrals so they can be
handled consistently and appropriately, including through examinations or enforcement
investigations. This effort will also enhance the SEC’s data on tips, complaints,
and referrals, to help the agency spot trends and patterns about potential issues or
violations that deserve further Commission action.

■■

Enhance effectiveness of examination process: The SEC will conduct a top-to-bottom
review of the effectiveness of its examination process, in response to systemic failures
identified by the SEC’s Office of Inspector General. This review will focus not only
on enhanced training, examination planning, recognition of and follow up regarding
red flags, complaint evaluation, and third party verification procedures, but also the
structural issues that have impaired communication both among examination staff and
across divisions.

■■

Establish a whistleblower program: The SEC will encourage individuals and entities
to identify potential parties to violations. The agency also will seek legislation from
Congress to compensate whistleblowers who send the SEC productive tips, as is
currently the case only with insider trading matters.

■■

Improve surveillance capabilities: The SEC will enhance the methods and tools for more
effectively identifying and assessing risks in the markets and focusing surveillance
efforts on entities, persons, and practices that pose high risk to investors and financial
markets. As part of this effort, the SEC will seek to obtain greater access to data and
insights from a variety of sources including data from registrants, SROs, commercial
vendors, and other sources. In addition, the agency will expand the use of analytics to
enhance the ability of examination and enforcement staff to detect potentially violative
activity.

■■

Make more effective use of data analysis: The SEC will develop or obtain technology
solutions to enhance the ability to easily access, search and analyze agency information
on registrants and related entities, in order to help staff more effectively prepare for and
conduct examinations.

■■

Bolster the expertise of SEC staff: The SEC will develop and implement specialized
teams focusing on particular market issues that directly affect investors and the
functioning of the markets, enhance the expertise of SEC staff through targeted training
in critical areas, and enable staff to obtain additional training resulting in certifications,
such as “Certified Fraud Examiners” and “Chartered Financial Analysts.”

■■

Implement New Cooperation Initiative: The staff will use a variety of new tools—
including cooperation agreements, deferred prosecution agreements and nonprosecution agreements­—to encourage individuals and companies to promptly report
violations and provide assistance to the agency.

12 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Percentage of cause and
special exams (sweeps)
conducted as a result of risk
assessment process that
includes multi-divisional
input

As SEC staff expands its use of risk-based methods and has
more data available for risk analysis, staff anticipates that
the percentage volume of exams driven by a more robust risk
assessment process will increase.

Target: To Be Determined *
Percentage of advisers
deemed “high risk” examined
during the year
Target: 33%

Percentage of investment
advisers, investment
companies, and brokerdealers examined during the
year
Target: Investment Advisers:
9%; Investment Companies:
15%; Broker-Dealers (exams
by SEC or SROs): 55%
Percentage of non-sweep and
non-cause exams that are
concluded within 120 days
Target: 75%	

To conduct oversight of investment advisers, the staff
conducts a risk-based program of examinations. Certain
advisers are identified as high risk at the beginning of every
fiscal year, and then inspections are planned on a cyclical
basis. The staff’s goal is to inspect high risk advisers at least
once every three years. Meeting this target will depend
upon the SEC having sufficient resources to keep pace with
growth in the industry and the need for examiners to check
compliance with evolving regulatory requirements.
This measure indicates the number of registrants examined
by the SEC or a SRO as a percentage of the total number of
registrants. This measure includes all types of examinations:
routine examinations, cause inspections to follow up on tips
and complaints, limited-scope special inspections to probe
emerging risk areas, oversight examinations of broker-dealers
to test compliance and the quality of examinations by the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA).

The staff conducts examinations each year of investment
advisers, investment company complexes, transfer agents, and
broker-dealers. The staff strives to complete its examinations
in the most efficient and effective manner. When possible,
the staff attempts to conclude its examinations within 120
days of the end of any field work completed. However, some
examinations require significantly more time so that potential
violations are fully reviewed. To ensure that time pressure
does not impair quality, the target for this benchmark should
not be set too high.

* This performance metric is new for the SEC. The agency plans to begin collecting this information and
determine the current, baseline level for this metric before establishing a target.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 13

Related Indicators
The following indicators are useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should
not be considered performance measures and do not include targets that the agency will
strive to reach in future years. The agency chose not to include targets because it would
be inappropriate for the agency to conduct these activities with an eye towards hitting
predetermined numerical targets rather than evaluating the facts as presented.
Indicator

Description

Percentage of exams that
identify deficiencies, and the
percentage that result in a
“significant finding”

Examiners find a wide range of deficiencies during
examinations. Some of the deficiencies are more technical
in nature, such as failing to include all information that is
required to be in a record. However, other deficiencies may
cause harm to customers or clients of a firm, have a high
potential to cause harm, or reflect recidivist misconduct.
The latter deficiencies are among those categorized as
“significant.” This measure identifies the percentage of exams
by registrant category that identified deficiencies, and that
resulted in significant deficiency findings.

Number of tips that result
in a “cause” exam or
enforcement investigation

Analysis of a tip can result in an action plan being established
to support the request for a cause exam or an enforcement
action. This measure would identify the volume of SEC
actions that result from tips collected through its outreach
efforts.

Outcome 1.3: The SEC prosecutes violations of federal securities laws and holds
violators accountable.
Investors are not truly protected unless those who prey on them are swiftly and appropriately
sanctioned. In holding violators of the federal securities laws accountable for their actions,
Commission staff seek to balance limited resources and leverage important cooperative
relationships with other law enforcement agencies, regulators, SROs, and the PCAOB. At the
same time, the enforcement staff strives to obtain swift and firm sanctions, while remaining
fair and reasonable. The breadth of the enforcement program’s capabilities in this area
derives, in part, from its close cooperation with the other agency divisions that perform
regulatory functions and also have deep knowledge about the market and its participants.
To improve the quality and efficiency of its investigations, the SEC is committed to
streamlining internal processes to eliminate unnecessary delays. In pursuing violations of the
securities laws, the SEC regularly works closely with other regulators and law enforcement
agencies, and the agency plans to develop those relationships further to strengthen the reach
of our efforts to hold wrongdoers accountable. The enforcement program also has seen a
dramatic increase in its coordination efforts with foreign authorities, including requests
for assistance to and from foreign regulators under bilateral and multilateral informationsharing agreements; requests to trace proceeds of fraud to foreign countries; actions to obtain
asset freezes; and close cooperation with foreign authorities in investigations relating to
market abuse, investment advisers, offering and disclosure fraud, complex derivatives, the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other areas. The SEC is committed to expanding these
efforts further.

14 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Implement internal reforms of the enforcement program: The SEC will continue
to implement greater efficiencies in internal processes, including enhancing case
management systems and strategic planning to improve the timeliness of investigations,
better focus investigations and cases on programmatic priorities, and maximize agency
resources for investigating and prosecuting wrongdoing.

■■

Maintain specialty groups within the enforcement program: The SEC will use
specialized groups and task forces to move quickly and centralize expertise on the most
critical issues emerging in the markets.

■■

Enhance timeliness of distributions to wronged investors: The SEC will improve
timeliness and efficiency of its efforts to return money collected in enforcement actions
to harmed investors.

■■

Collaborate with other authorities on enforcement matters: The SEC will strengthen the
reach of its enforcement efforts by improving coordination and cooperation with other
law enforcement agencies and regulators, both domestic and foreign, including referring
matters that are more appropriately pursued by other agencies and SROs.

■■

Enhance communications among SEC divisions and offices: The SEC will improve
communication and sharing of information between the enforcement program and other
divisions and offices to bring to bear the collective expertise of the agency in a timely
and efficient manner.

■■

Review approach for enforcement penalties: The SEC will assess and improve the
agency’s penalties framework so that penalties have the appropriate punitive and
deterrent effect.

■■

Broaden the range of enforcement sanctions: The SEC will develop alternative
approaches to sanctions to gain greater flexibility in bringing actions to a conclusion
that benefits investors, including enhanced approaches to promoting greater
cooperation from wrongdoers.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 15

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Percentage of enforcement
cases successfully resolved

A case is considered “successfully resolved” if it results in a
favorable outcome for the SEC, including through litigation,
a settlement, or the issuance of a default judgment. In general,
the SEC strives to successfully resolve as many cases as
possible but, at the same time, aims to file large, difficult, or
precedent-setting cases when appropriate, even if success is
not assured. This measure does not include any cases in which
the SEC awaits a final outcome. The measure is calculated
on a per-defendant basis. Large cases may involve several
defendants.

Target: 90%

Percentage of first
enforcement cases filed
within two years
Target: 65%
Percentage of debts where
either a payment has been
made or a collection activity
has been initiated within six
months of the due date of the
debt
Target: 92%

This measure identifies the percentage of first enforcement
actions filed within two years of opening an investigation
or inquiry. In conducting investigations, the enforcement
program continually strives to balance the need for complete,
effective, and fair investigations with the need to file
enforcement actions in as timely a manner as possible.
The SEC can seek a wide range of remedies for failure to
comply with the securities laws. These remedies include civil
monetary penalties and disgorgement.  When the remedies
are imposed by the Commission or the federal district court,
payments must be made by a certain date. This measure
identifies the percentage of debts where debtors have made
payments or the SEC has initiated a collection activity within
180 days of the due date. Such collection activities include,
among other things, demand letters, negotiation of payment
plans, enforcing the payment of the debt through the courts,
or other judicial remedies.

16 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Performance Metric

Description

Percentage of Fair Fund and
disgorgement fund plans that
distributed the final tranche
of funds to injured investors
within 24 months of the
order appointing the fund
administrator

In addition to other types of relief, the Commission may seek
orders requiring parties to disgorge any money obtained
through wrongdoing. The Commission also is empowered
to seek civil penalties for violations of the securities laws. 
Where appropriate, the Commission has sought to return
disgorged funds to harmed investors and, as a result of the
Fair Funds provision of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to combine
amounts paid as penalties with disgorged funds to reduce
losses to injured parties. After sufficient disgorgement
and penalties have been collected to form a distribution
fund, the Commission appoints, or, in civil actions, seeks
the appointment of, a fund administrator to develop and
subsequently implement an approved plan to distribute
funds to injured investors. Using the claims-made process,
the fund administrator identifies injured investors and
determines amounts to be disbursed to eligible claimants. 
The distribution of funds to eligible claimants may be made
in several tranches to return funds to investors more quickly,
while efforts continue to locate any remaining investors
through the claims-made process. This measure identifies
the percentage of “claims-made” distribution plans that
distributed the final tranche during the fiscal year and within
24 months of the order appointing the fund administrator. 
This reflects Commission-wide efforts to develop, approve,
and implement plans to return funds to investors quickly,
regardless of the monetary amount in the fund. Any funds
not returned to investors are sent to the U.S. Treasury; neither
disgorgement nor penalties are used for the Commission’s
own expenses.

Target: To Be Determined *

Percentage of Fair Fund and
disgorgement fund plans
approved by final order
within the prior fiscal year
which had a first tranche
of funds distributed under
those plans within 12 months
of such approval date
Target: 60%

In its enforcement cases, the Commission may seek to
return funds to harmed investors through disgorgement of
ill-gotten gains or through the Fair Funds provision of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act. This provision permits the Commission
to combine amounts paid as penalties with disgorged funds
to reduce losses to injured parties. This measure identifies the
percentage of distribution plans for which a first tranche was
distributed to injured investors within 12 months of the plans’
approval date. This reflects the Commission’s efforts to return
funds to investors quickly, regardless of the monetary amount
in the fund. Any funds not returned to investors are sent to
the U.S. Treasury; neither disgorgement nor penalties are used
for the Commission’s own expenses.

* This performance metric is new for the SEC. The agency plans to begin collecting this information and
determine the current, baseline level for this metric before establishing a target.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 17

Related Indicators
The following indicators are useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should
not be considered performance measures and do not include targets that the agency will
strive to reach in future years. The agency chose not to include targets because it would
be inappropriate for the agency to conduct these activities with an eye towards hitting
predetermined numerical targets rather than evaluating the facts as presented.
Indicator

Description

SEC investigations
referred to SROs or other
state, federal, and foreign
authorities for enforcement

The SEC works closely with other regulators and authorities
so that violators of federal securities laws are held
accountable. In certain circumstances, a matter may be more
appropriately handled by another entity or in another venue,
and the agency will refer the investigation for further action.
This measure identifies the number (or percentage of the
agency’s total number) of investigations that are referred to
others for action.

Percent of all enforcement
cases deemed “high impact”

High impact cases can include those that are the first of their
kind, those that achieve an appropriate deterrent effect, cases
that affect selected communities, cases addressing areas that
are of particular interest to market participants, or cases of
significant public interest.

Percent of cases that come
from internally-generated
referrals or prospects

Through enhanced risk assessment practices, the agency aims
to improve its ability to identify internally-generated tips or
prospects for cases. Internal prospects could include issues
identified during the course of SEC examinations, analysis of
data, disclosure reviews, or other activities.

Criminal proceedings
relating to SEC
investigations

In some instances, investigations may reveal that both civil
and criminal violations have occurred, and the agency will
refer matters to criminal authorities for action. This measure
identifies the number of SEC investigations referred to
criminal authorities and the number (or percentage) resulting
in criminal proceedings.

Disgorgement and Penalties
Ordered and the Amounts
Collected by the SEC

In addition to other types of relief, the SEC may seek
orders requiring parties to disgorge any money obtained
through wrongdoing. The SEC is also empowered to seek
civil penalties for violations of the securities laws. Where
appropriate, the SEC has sought to return disgorged funds to
harmed investors. Funds not returned to investors are sent to
the Treasury. This indicator lists disgorgement and penalties
ordered as a result of SEC cases and the amounts collected by
the SEC. This indicator could increase or decrease based on
various factors.

18 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Indicator

Description

Requests from foreign
authorities for SEC
assistance and SEC requests
for assistance from foreign
authorities

Each year, the SEC makes hundreds of requests for
enforcement assistance to foreign regulators, while
responding to hundreds of such requests from other nations.
To facilitate this type of assistance, and encourage other
countries to enact laws necessary to allow regulators to
cooperate with their foreign counterparts, the SEC has
entered into the Multilateral Memorandum of Understanding,
an information-sharing arrangement negotiated through
the International Organization of Securities Commissions
(IOSCO).

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 19

Strategic Goal 2:
Establish an effective regulatory environment

“The SEC’s mission is to protect investors, maintain efficient markets and promote
capital formation. In order to establish and maintain an effective regulatory
environment in furtherance of this mission, we need to understand the markets we
regulate, be consistent and transparent in the application of the laws we enforce,
and be scrupulous in our consideration and analysis of proposed regulatory changes.
A regulatory ethos that focuses on knowledge, fairness, and rigorous empiricism will
ensure high quality regulation.”
COMMISSIONER KATHLEEN L. CASEY

“As the investor’s advocate, the responsibility of rulemaking at the SEC is a serious
undertaking. The SEC is the only federal regulator whose mission is to protect
investors. When investor confidence falters, it is our job to search for solutions that
will help restore their confidence in the fairness and integrity of our markets.”
COMMISSIONER ELISSE B. WALTER

“The Commission’s 2010-2015 strategic plan will guide the agency in its important
work protecting investors, maintaining well-functioning markets, and facilitating
capital formation. When we promote each element of our tripartite mission, the
Commission ensures that the full range of investor interests is advanced and that
enterprises are able to raise capital efficiently. I look forward to working with the
Commission staff and my fellow Commissioners as we execute this plan.”
COMMISSIONER TROY A. PAREDES

20 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

THE COMMISSION’S RESPONSIBILITY is to put the federal securities laws into action
by establishing a regulatory environment in which the agency’s mission can be met and
sustained. When existing laws impair this mission, the Commission also has a duty to advise
Congress about necessary corrective measures. Most securities law and regulation flow from
two central principles. First, all investors should have equal access to accurate, complete and
timely information about the investments they buy, sell and hold. Second, investors should
be able to rely upon self-regulatory organizations, broker-dealers, investment advisers,
investment companies, and other market participants to conduct investors’ securities
transactions efficiently and in the investors’ best interests.
The Commission has broad authority to shape the regulatory framework for the
securities industry. Rulemaking often is required to remedy abusive practices or to respond
to Congressional mandates, changing economic conditions, advances in technology, or novel
products or services. In general, rulemaking and policies are designed to improve disclosure,
facilitate the flow of important information to investors and the public, improve governance,
promote high-quality accounting standards, enhance the accountability of financial
intermediaries and other market participants, and strengthen the structure of the trading
markets, among other goals. When properly crafted, these rules serve to further the agency’s
mission.
In addition to promulgating its rules and regulations, the SEC provides guidance when,
among other things, it sets forth the views of the Commission or its staff on questions of
current concern, without stating them in the form of legal requirements. The principal form
of this guidance is publicly available staff statements on a particular legal or accounting
issue or on an interpretation of a rule or regulation. The staff also responds to inquiries from
individuals and companies about whether an activity undertaken in a specified manner would
violate the securities laws. The inquiries can take the form of written requests that the staff
not recommend enforcement or other action to the Commission if the activity is completed as
specified. The Commission also issues individual orders granting relief from provisions of the
securities laws when the specific facts indicate that doing so is consistent with the protection
of investors and the policy and purposes behind the laws. These orders can serve as a testing
ground for useful innovation and may pave the way for rulemaking.
The Commission believes that its rules and regulations should be drafted to enable
market participants to understand clearly their obligations under the federal securities laws
and to conduct their activities in compliance with law. Just as the securities laws require
that disclosures be clear and precise, the Commission aims to promulgate rules that are
clearly written, easily understood, and tailored toward specific ends. In addition, the agency
recognizes that regular reviews of Commission regulations and its rulemaking processes are
necessary to confirm that intended results are being achieved.

Outcome 2.1: The SEC establishes and maintains a regulatory environment that
promotes high-quality disclosure, financial reporting, and governance, and prevents
abusive practices by registrants, financial intermediaries, and other market
participants.
The investments of nearly every American family are dependent upon the maintenance of
healthy capital markets. The greater availability of and access to investment opportunities
can help Americans build their portfolios to create a better life for themselves and their
children. Investment opportunities may include attendant hazards, however, such as the
potential for abuse by market intermediaries and other participants. Such abuses erode
the investing public’s trust and undermine investor confidence in markets as a whole. To

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 21

protect investors and to promote confidence in the integrity and fairness of the markets, the
Commission uses its regulatory authority to deter potentially abusive tactics.
The federal securities laws entrust the Commission with authority to shape the regulatory
framework so that investors are protected through the availability of high-quality disclosure
about their investments. In addition, the agency develops regulations that promote and
strengthen corporate and fund governance.

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Improve the quality and usefulness of disclosure: The SEC will continue to evaluate
and, where necessary, amend its requirements to improve the quality and usefulness of
registrants’ disclosures to investors. Areas of focus will include disclosure about risk
management, executive compensation decisions and practices, nomination of directors,
board governance, and discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial
condition.

■■

Analyze trends in new financial instruments and market innovations: The SEC will
proactively seek out information from market experts both within and external to the
SEC to help inform the regulatory process, look for new risks, and ensure rules take into
account the latest market practices. When possible, the SEC will directly collect and
analyze relevant market data to identify upcoming trends, patterns, or relationships
among asset classes, instruments and market participants.

■■

Strengthen proxy infrastructure: The SEC will conduct a comprehensive review
of the issues related to the mechanics of proxy voting and shareholder-company
communications, including the role of proxy advisory firms.

■■

Modernize beneficial ownership reporting: The SEC will consider how to modernize
its beneficial ownership reporting requirements to, among other things, address
the disclosure obligations relating to the use of equity swaps and other derivative
instruments.

■■

Harmonize regulatory structures for investment advisers and broker-dealers: The SEC
will continue reviewing how the different regulatory systems that apply to brokerdealers and investment advisers may be harmonized for the protection of investors.

■■

Promote high-quality accounting standards: The SEC will continue to promote the
establishment of high-quality accounting standards by independent standard setters in
order to meet the needs of investors. For example:
■■

In overseeing the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the
SEC will strengthen and support the FASB’s independence and maintain
the focus of financial reporting on the needs of investors, consistent
with the recommendations set forth by the SEC Advisory Committee on
Improvements to Financial Reporting;

■■

The SEC will support FASB’s efforts to improve financial reporting,
including recent standard-setting initiatives such as off-balance sheet
accounting and accounting for financial instruments; and

22 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

■■

Due to the increasingly global nature of the capital markets, the agency
will promote higher quality financial reporting worldwide through, among
other things, support for a single set of high-quality global accounting
standards, and promotion of the ongoing convergence initiatives between
the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board.

■■

Foster high-quality audits through the oversight of the accounting profession: The SEC
will continue to oversee the PCAOB and its regulation of the accounting profession
through the PCAOB’s inspection and disciplinary programs. The SEC also will work
closely with the PCAOB on the promulgation and interpretation of auditing standards
to address current issues in the capital markets.

■■

Continue global coordination and assistance: The SEC will continue to work closely
with its regulatory counterparts abroad, as well as with relevant international
organizations, to promote high-quality securities regulation worldwide and convergence
where appropriate. In addition, the SEC will continue to provide technical assistance to
emerging and recently-emerged markets to help these jurisdictions in establishing and
implementing laws and regulations that minimize the likelihood of regulatory arbitrage
and promote cross-border enforcement and supervisory assistance.

■■

Strengthen investment adviser and broker-dealer oversight: The Commission
will continue to enhance its oversight of investment advisers and broker-dealers.
For example, the Commission is considering rules designed to prevent political
contributions from influencing the selection of investment advisers to the detriment of
public pension plan clients, as well as rules that would provide additional safeguards
to investors when an adviser has custody of client assets. The Commission will also
consider requiring those who provide investment advice to provide clients and
prospective clients with clear, current, and more meaningful disclosure of their business
practices, conflicts of interest, and backgrounds.

■■

Address investment company distribution fees: Given the evolution in the investment
management industry and in the uses of investment company distribution fees, the SEC
plans to reconsider the rule permitting these fees and the factors that fund boards must
consider when approving or renewing them.

■■

Enhance disclosures related to asset-backed securities: The SEC is considering revising
its rules and forms to improve registration and disclosure requirements for asset-backed
securities.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 23

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Survey on quality of
disclosure

Under this metric, the SEC plans to conduct a survey to elicit
feedback on the quality of disclosures and the Commission’s
disclosure requirements. The SEC would track whether the
percentage of respondents answering positively improves
from year to year.

Target: To Be Determined *

Number of consultations;
joint events, reports, or
initiatives; and joint
examinations and other
mutual supervisory efforts
with SROs and other
federal, state, and non-U.S.
regulators

This metric gauges how much the SEC is coordinating with
other financial regulatory agencies within a given fiscal
year. Also, as securities markets around the world become
increasingly integrated and globalized, it is essential that
the SEC work frequently and effectively with its partner
regulators both in the U.S. and abroad.

Target: To Be Determined *
Number of non-U.S.
regulators trained
Target: 1,750 per year

This metric shows the reach of the SEC’s technical assistance
programs for regulators around the world. The SEC conducts
these training sessions to assist countries in developing and
maintaining robust protections for investors and promote
cross-border enforcement and supervisory assistance.

* These performance metrics are new for the SEC, and the agency must further refine the statistics before
establishing targets.

Related Indicator
The following indicator is useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should not be
considered a performance measure and does not include a target that the agency will strive to
reach in future years.
Indicator

Description

Average cost of capital in
U.S. relative to the rest of the
world

Countries’ cost of capital can vary according to their
protections for investors, the strength of their disclosure
regimes, and the presence of fair, orderly, and efficient
markets, among other factors. Therefore, although this metric
is affected by other economic factors, it can provide some
indication of the quality of securities regulation in a given
country.

24 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Outcome 2.2: The U.S. capital markets operate in a fair, efficient, transparent, and
competitive manner, fostering capital formation and useful innovation.
Through rulemaking and other initiatives, the Commission works to assure that investors
have fair access to securities markets; that their orders are handled in an efficient and
transparent manner throughout the order entry, execution and settlement process; that
securities laws and regulations do not promote regulatory arbitrage; and that U.S. securities
markets remain vibrant, competitive and resilient. These efforts help to promote markets
in which investors have the necessary information to make investment decisions, the price
discovery process is fair and free from manipulation, and trades can be executed efficiently.
Also, the Commission fosters capital formation by facilitating market access for novel
products and innovative and competitive investment company structures when consistent
with investor protection.
Self-regulation is a fundamental component of the regulation of U.S. securities markets
and market intermediaries. The Commission’s oversight of SROs serves to provide further
assurance that our securities markets operate in a fair, efficient, and orderly manner; that
they are competitive; and that they promote capital formation. The Commission has authority
over the rulemaking and other activities of self-regulatory organizations, which include
national securities exchanges, FINRA, and clearing agencies. In approving SRO rules, the
Commission must determine, among other things, that these rules are designed to prevent
fraudulent and manipulative practices, promote just and equitable principles of trade, and
foster cooperation in the clearing and settling of trades, and that they do not create an
unnecessary or inappropriate burden on competition.

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Foster a strong market structure: The SEC will continue to pursue initiatives that
promote the goals of the national market system in the trading of securities, such as
enhancing price transparency, facilitating best execution, assuring fair access to trading
systems, and fostering fair competition. These may include:
■■

Strengthening the incentives for investors to display trading interest, and
thereby contribute to the public price discovery process;

■■

Enhancing the post-trade transparency of alternative trading systems
(including dark pools) in order to address market fragmentation and
facilitate best execution;

■■

Reviewing the impact of algorithmic and other automated trading on the
markets, including its contribution to market volatility and, if warranted,
developing an appropriate policy response;

■■

Articulating core structural standards for registered exchanges,
particularly in light of the development of affiliated exchange groups;

■■

Considering rulemaking with respect to the options markets to promote
continued fair, efficient, and non-discriminatory access to exchanges’
quotations, to provide for uniform disclosure of execution quality
statistics, and to address the extent to which quoting options in penny
increments is appropriate;

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 25

■■

Updating Commission rules and regulations, such as Regulation ATS and
Regulation NMS, to reflect market structure developments.

■■

Strengthen the viability of self-regulation: The SEC will take steps to promote the
continued vigor of self-regulation, particularly in light of the potential conflicts of
interest that have arisen as the securities exchanges have demutualized and become
operators of highly-competitive, for-profit shareholder-owned businesses.

■■

Enhance oversight of derivatives: The SEC will consider ways to use its existing
authority to improve the transparency and integrity of the over-the-counter (OTC)
derivatives market, including the market for credit default swaps. The SEC also will
work with other government agencies to seek changes to laws to fill regulatory gaps
in the oversight of OTC derivatives. The SEC will work with the CFTC to seek to
harmonize futures and securities laws for economically equivalent instruments. 

■■

Prevent market manipulation: As part of this initiative, the SEC will review recent
changes to the regulation of short sales to assess their effectiveness and determine
whether additional modifications are warranted. The agency also intends to explore
ways to enhance the transparency of trading activities to better deter and detect
manipulation. In addition, the SEC will pursue initiatives to update and enhance the
anti-manipulation rules that address the activities of underwriters, issuers, selling
security holders and others in connection with securities offerings, as well as update
and enhance the anti-manipulation rules that address issuer repurchases and timely
public notice of dividends and other distributions.

■■

Improve transparency and oversight of small capitalization securities: The SEC
will pursue initiatives focused on the special characteristics of the market for small
capitalization securities, in order to enhance the transparency of this market and
promote vigorous oversight. Goals of these initiatives will include assuring appropriate
investor protections and promoting market efficiency. The SEC also will review its rule
that governs the publication of quotations for securities that are not listed on a national
securities exchange, to more narrowly focus that rule on those securities and situations
most likely to raise concerns about fraud and manipulation.

■■

Implement money market fund reforms: The SEC plans to enhance the regulatory
regime for money market mutual funds to better position them to meet demands from
investors who want to redeem their shares on a short-term basis.

■■

Streamline the process for introducing new exchange-traded funds: The Commission
will consider whether to permit certain exchange-traded funds to be introduced to
the market without first submitting an application and receiving an order from the
Commission. 

■■

Strengthen oversight of credit rating agencies: The SEC will continue to enhance
the program for registration and oversight of credit rating agencies that operate as
nationally recognized statistical rating organizations, with a particular emphasis
on measures designed to increase the transparency of ratings methodologies and
performance and to address conflicts of interest inherent in the credit rating industry.

■■

Improve clearance and settlement: The SEC will continue to pursue initiatives to
enhance the clearance and settlement of securities transactions by implementing
“straight through processing,” the automation of the trade process from execution
to settlement without manual intervention or the reentry of data. The SEC also will

26 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

consider whether to modify existing transfer agent rules in an effort to modernize
the manner in which transfer agents provide transfer and other services in the U.S.
clearance and settlement system.
■■

Enhance market continuity of operations: The SEC is working with critical market
participants to develop adequate plans and procedures so that back-up infrastructure
and personnel are able to maintain continuity of operations through any future market
disruption.

■■

Coordinate closely with other agencies on regulatory issues: In order to create a
more effective and coordinated regulatory environment, the SEC will partner with
other federal, state, and non-U.S. regulatory agencies to share data, information and
expertise on regulatory issues that cross jurisdictional boundaries, domestically and
internationally.

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Percentage of transaction
dollars settled on time each
year

This metric measures the efficiency of the U.S. clearance and
settlement system for equity securities.

Target: At least 99% of all
equity trades by dollar value
Average institutional
transaction costs for
exchange listed stocks on a
monthly basis

This performance metric captures the actual cost of trading in
large (institutional size) transactions.

Target: To Be Determined *
Percentage of market outages
at SROs and electronic
communications networks
(ECNs) that are corrected
within targeted timeframes
Target: 60% within 2 hours,
75% within 4 hours, and
96% within 24 hours

Market outages reflect problems in the systems underlying
the securities markets that could have an adverse affect on
the markets’ ability to function as required. The SEC assesses
the reliability and resiliency of these systems to minimize
the number and duration of outages. This metric gauges how
quickly outages are resolved, so that market activity can
resume.

* This performance metric is new for the SEC, and the agency must further refine the statistics before
establishing targets.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 27

Related Indicators
The following indicators are useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should not be
considered performance measures and do not include targets that the agency will strive to
reach in future years.
Indicator

Description

Average quoted spread for
exchange listed stocks on a
monthly basis

This indicator gauges the hypothetical cost of trading in small
amounts at the quoted markets, based solely on published
quotations.

Average effective spread for
exchange listed stocks on a
monthly basis

This indicator captures the cost of trading in small amounts
based on actual trade prices and the quotes at the times of
those trades.

Speed of Execution

This indicator gauges how quickly transactions are executed
in the U.S. securities markets.

Average quoted size of
exchange listed stocks on a
monthly basis

This indicator measures the amount of liquidity visible to the
market at the displayed quotes.

Average daily volatility of
exchange listed stocks on a
monthly basis

This statistic gauges short term price changes, which are an
indicator of the risk of holding stock.

Outcome 2.3: The SEC adopts and administers rules and regulations that enable
market participants to understand clearly their obligations under the securities laws.
The process of developing and administering rules and regulations is one of the primary
functions of the SEC and involves staff from virtually every division and office. One of the
agency’s primary objectives is to maintain a regulatory framework that enables market
participants to understand clearly their obligations.
The success of this outcome requires coordination among staff who bring a variety of
different perspectives, with appropriate tools and support. In addition, the agency must
continually reevaluate its regulatory framework so that it provides sufficient protections to
investors as new products or services enter the market.

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Improve agency-wide coordination of the rulemaking process: The SEC will seek
additional ways to break down internal organizational barriers and foster greater
collaboration among divisions and offices on rulemaking initiatives. The agency will
establish collaboration tools to more effectively gather and analyze data from across the
SEC and manage rulemaking activities.

28 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

■■

Enhance the economic support for Commission rules and regulations: The SEC will
continue to enhance assistance of economists earlier and more often in the rulemaking
process, so that the Commission’s rules and regulations continue to be appropriately
informed by economic reasoning and robust cost-benefit analysis. This includes
adopting a multi-disciplinary approach that combines economic analyses with relevant
market data, detailed financial knowledge, and legal expertise.

■■

Assess the effect of prior Commission rulemakings: The SEC will periodically assess the
impact of past rulemakings to gauge their effectiveness and determine whether more
effective alternative approaches may have become available. Where appropriate, these
determinations should employ empirical analysis. Pertinent divisions and offices will
establish collaborative tools to more effectively conduct and coordinate such analyses.

■■

Improve the process for no action, interpretive, and exemptive regulatory requests: The
SEC will continue reviewing its process for handling written requests for no-action,
exemptive and interpretive relief, so that the agency’s responses are completed in a
timely and efficient manner.

■■

Streamline the process for reviewing SRO rule filings: Consistent with fulfilling its
obligations under the Exchange Act with respect to the oversight of SRO rules, SEC will
continue to explore further ways to streamline the SRO rule filing process.

■■

Facilitate market access of financial products through exemptive rules: The SEC will
aim to eliminate the need for investment advisers and investment companies to submit
applications for exemptive relief that are substantially similar to certain previously
granted applications by adopting rules codifying the relief. For example, the SEC may
propose rules or amendments to rules that would codify exemptive relief the SEC has
granted permitting funds of funds, employees’ securities companies and manager-ofmanager structures.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 29

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Length of time to respond
to written requests for noaction letters, exemptive
applications, and written
interpretive requests

The SEC staff responds to requests for guidance from
individuals and companies about specific provisions of the
federal securities laws. These queries can ask for proper
interpretations of the securities laws or regulations, or for
assurances that no enforcement action will be taken in
certain circumstances. The staff also reviews applications
for exemptions from the securities laws. Written responses
to such requests for guidance, when provided, generally are
publicly available, as are applications and related notices
and orders, when issued. This measure gauges whether the
Divisions of Trading and Markets, Investment Management,
and Corporation Finance are issuing initial comments on
these requests on a timely basis.

Target: The Division of
Trading and Markets’ goal
is to complete 85% of all
responses within 60 days.
The Division of Investment
Management’s goal is to
provide initial comments on
at least 75% of interpretive
and no action requests
within three weeks of
receipt of the letter request,
and initial comments on
at least 80% of exemptive
applications within 120
days after receipt of an
application. The Division
of Corporation Finance’s
targets are to complete
90% of initial comments on
no-action letters within 30
days, and 100% of initial
comments on shareholder
proposals by a company’s
planned proxy mailing date.
Survey on whether SEC rules
and regulations are clearly
understandable
Target: To Be Determined *

The SEC aims to promote a regulatory environment
in which market participants clearly understand their
obligations. Through this metric, the SEC intends to survey
market participants to determine whether they believe the
Commission’s regulatory requirements are clear.

30 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Performance Metric

Description

Time to complete SEC review
of SRO rules that are subject
to SEC approval

The SEC reviews SRO rule proposals for consistency with the
Exchange Act and the investor protection, market operation
and structure, and other rules. This metric gauges how quickly
the SEC completes these reviews after a proposed rule change
requiring Commission approval has been filed.

Target: 40% of filings
completed by 35 days from
date of publication and
80% of filings completed
by 45 days from date of
publication

* This performance metric is new for the SEC. The agency plans to begin collecting this information and
determine the current, baseline level for this metric before establishing a target.

Related Indicator
The following indicator is useful for understanding the SEC’s activities, but should not be
considered a performance measure and does not include a target that the agency will strive to
reach in future years.
Indicator

Description

Percentage of SRO rule
filings that are submitted for
immediate effectiveness

This metric gauges the proportion of SRO rule proposals
that can be submitted for immediate effectiveness, without
Commission approval.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 31

Strategic Goal 3:
Facilitate access to the information investors need to make informed
investment decisions

“The SEC was created to restore investor confidence in our capital markets by
providing investors and the markets with more reliable information and clear rules
of honest dealing. SEC regulation aims to foster investor confidence with two
common-sense notions. One, companies financed by the investing public must tell
the public the truth about their businesses, the securities they are selling, and the
risks involved in investment. Two, people who sell, trade, and provide advice about
securities must treat investors fairly and honestly, putting investors’ interests first.
The quality and credibility of disclosure documents filed with the SEC by public
companies are at the heart of this approach.”
COMMISSIONER ELISSE B. WALTER

“Disclosure required by the SEC serves the needs of investors as well as the
general public by increasing transparency and accountability. The information that
is useful to the public, and that investors need in order to make prudent decisions,
is dynamic. The SEC must keep pace with these changing needs by listening
to investors and by anticipating the kinds of decisions that investors and the
general public will face in the future. I am committed to working with my fellow
Commissioners to advance the public interest.”
COMMISSIONER LUIS A. AGUILAR

“The federal securities laws are premised on a philosophy of disclosure. We have an
obligation, therefore, to ensure that market participants are armed with the material
information they need to make informed decisions. As our markets evolve, the
regulatory regime needs to keep pace so that investors continue to have access to
relevant information on a timely basis. This strategic plan will guide the Commission
and its staff in meeting this challenge.”
COMMISSIONER TROY A. PAREDES

32 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

THE FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS require that corporations, investment companies, and
other entities provide investors with timely and meaningful information about, among other
things, their operations and finances. Because an educated and informed investor ultimately
provides the best defense against fraud and costly mistakes, these laws place great emphasis
on providing the investing public with meaningful information. As part of its disclosure
program, the SEC requires entities to disclose financial and non-financial information to
the public, thereby providing a common pool of knowledge for all investors to use to judge
for themselves if a security is a good investment. Similarly, SEC rules require that investors
have access to certain information about the financial intermediaries that they rely upon
for investment advice and other services. SEC staff review the filings that corporations,
investment companies, and other entities submit to assess whether the disclosures appear
adequate and accurate.
The goal of the SEC’s investor education program is to give investors the information they
need to evaluate current and potential investments, while also providing agency staff with
critical insight about emerging trends and factors shaping investor decision making. The SEC
staff aims to collect investor-focused data from a variety of sources and use it both to track
trends in the securities industry and to identify, among other things, problematic brokers,
firms, and sales practices. This information can help shape the agency’s overall approach to
risk assessment, focus internal resources, and shape the initiatives of other SEC offices and
divisions. In addition, agency staff work collaboratively with other regulators and educational
organizations to place information in the hands of the investing public to promote informed
decisions, as well as to help investors avoid fraudulent schemes.

Outcome 3.1: Investors have access to high-quality disclosure materials that are
useful to investment decision making.
Investors who have access to information and know what questions to ask are more likely to
invest wisely, and to choose professional intermediaries that will best meet their objectives.
The SEC understands that not all investors need the same information and that those needs
are affected by their backgrounds, resources and goals. The SEC seeks to structure disclosure
requirements so that investors are armed with the timely and meaningful information they
need to make appropriate investment decisions.
As technology and the complexity of financial instruments change, so too do the needs of
modern day investors. Providing investors with information in concise, easy-to-use formats
that are tailored to their needs helps investors to help themselves. On a recurring basis, the
agency examines its filing review program to explore whether its disclosure requirements,
review criteria, approach to comments, and the professional and technology resources utilized
provide maximum impact to benefit investors. As a result, new initiatives are generated and
internal practices are revised that shape the future of the program.

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Revise disclosure and reporting requirements to reflect the informational needs of
today’s investors: The SEC will undertake a number of initiatives to enhance disclosure
requirements for the benefit of investors, including reassessing current core corporate
disclosure requirements and implementing the new mutual fund summary prospectus
regime. In proposing changes for the Commission to consider, the staff will seek to
modernize disclosure requirements and eliminate redundant reporting requirements.
The staff’s efforts will include a comprehensive review of proxy voting and shareholder
communications to identify ideas and proposals for potential changes to rules. The SEC
Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 33

also will consider changes requiring broker-dealers that sell securities such as mutual
funds, variable insurance products and 529 plan interests to disclose information
relating to their compensation and conflicts of interest and key product features at the
“point of sale” and on the Internet.
■■

Evaluate filing review programs for the most effective disclosures to investors: Agency
staff will evaluate the filing review programs to determine whether the SEC is properly
using risk management tools to identify filings for review and seek enhancements in
disclosure.  This assessment will explore the criteria the agency uses to identify filings
for review, the SEC’s approach to issuing comments to companies, and new ways for
technology to help improve the agency’s programs.

■■

Design and implement new disclosure regimes for specialized categories of issuers: The
SEC also will consider revising the disclosure requirements for securitized financial
products and other complex financial instruments and work with the Department of
Labor to address issues with respect to target date funds. The SEC intends to consider
enhancing the information that a broker-dealer underwriting a primary offering of
municipal securities must determine that an issuer will provide to shareholders, as
well as to improve protections against identity theft and investor understanding of
financial privacy notices. The SEC also intends to consider amending the broker-dealer
and investment adviser registration forms, to elicit information that will be useful to
investors in comparing and selecting investment professionals.

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Percentage of public
companies and investment
companies with disclosures
reviewed each year

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires that the SEC review
the disclosures of all companies and investment company
portfolios reporting under the Exchange Act at least once
every three years. These reviews help improve the information
available to investors and may uncover possible violations of
the securities laws.

Target: 33%
Time to issue initial
comments on Securities Act
filings

The target of 30 days or less has become a de facto industry
standard for the maximum time to receive initial comments. 

Target: Average of less than
30 days

34 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Performance Metric

Description

Percentage of investment
company disclosure reviews
for which initial comments
are completed within
timeliness goals

For initial registration statements, the SEC’s goal is to issue
initial comments within 30 days after they are filed (60 days
for registration statements of insurance product separate
accounts and related mutual funds). The SEC also aims to
comment on post-effective amendments within 45 days and
preliminary proxy statements within 10 days after they are
filed.

Target: Initial registration
statements 85%; Posteffective amendments 90%;
Prelim. proxy statements
99%
Point of Sale “click-through
rate”
Target: To Be Determined *

Access to broker-dealer
and investment adviser
background checks
Target: To Be Determined *

Investor demand for
disclosures on municipal
securities
Target: To Be Determined *

Satisfaction index for
disclosure process

The point of sale initiative relies on a layered approach
that combines point of sale disclosure and Internet-based
disclosure. This measure would determine how often investors
click on broker-dealers’ web sites to obtain information about
broker-dealer compensation and related conflicts of interest.
Greater availability of professional background information
of broker-dealers and their employees through the
BrokerCheck system will provide investors with the ability
to make better-informed decisions. Investors also have the
ability to check the backgrounds of investment advisory firms
through the SEC’s Investment Adviser Public Disclosure
(IAPD) system. This measure would gauge the demand
for disclosure information about broker-dealers and their
employees through the BrokerCheck website and about
investment advisers through the IAPD.
Greater availability of market-sensitive information through
the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board’s Electronic
Municipal Market Access (EMMA) website will provide
investors with the ability to make better-informed investment
decisions and assist market participants in fulfilling their
disclosure obligations. This measure gauges the demand for
disclosure information about municipal securities through the
EMMA website.
The agency will conduct survey research or focus groups to
identify the level of satisfaction with disclosure requirements.

Target: To Be Determined *
* These performance metrics are new for the SEC. The agency plans to begin collecting this information and
determine the current, baseline level for these metrics before establishing targets.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 35

Outcome 3.2: Agency rulemaking and investor education programs are informed by
an understanding of the wide range of investor needs.
Understanding the interests and concerns of investors is critical to carrying out
the Commission’s investor protection mission. The agency advances this mission by
communicating daily with investors, responding to their complaints and inquiries and
providing educational programs and materials.
Prospectively, the agency intends to obtain more comprehensive information about the
views and perspectives of investors. It will seek more robust information regarding the
behavioral characteristics of investors and the types of information investors need and
use as they make investment decisions. It will compile and provide this information to the
Commission to help it develop rules and educational programs that address investors’ views
and concerns.
The agency is exploring ways to encourage investor input by presenting investors
with clear, easily understandable explanations of Commission rule proposals and other
Commission activities through a variety of communication channels, including new media.
These efforts will complement those of the agency’s Investor Advisory Committee, which
was constituted to present the views and experience of a broad spectrum of investors, and
which will serve as an additional source of information concerning investors’ priorities and
perspectives on the Commission’s regulatory agenda.
More comprehensive data about investors also will drive the Commission’s investor
education efforts. Working in partnership with other federal and state agencies, financial
industry associations, consumer groups and educational organizations, the agency will
develop investor education initiatives that are targeted to specific audiences, yet share the
common objective of helping investors to help themselves.

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Inform rulemaking with research on investor behavior: The SEC will proactively seek
information on how different types of investors make investment decisions, in order
to inform the Commission’s rulemaking efforts and investor education programs and
materials.

■■

Reshape how agency information is made available to investors: The SEC will
encourage investor input in the Commission’s regulatory agenda by providing easily
understandable explanations of the Commission’s activities, distributed through
multiple communication channels including new media, and by responding in a timely
fashion to investor contacts.

■■

Address Investor Advisory Committee input: The SEC will consider information
and recommendations from the Investor Advisory Committee regarding investors’
perspectives and priorities.

■■

Modernize technology and service offerings targeted at assisting the investing public:
The SEC plans to use automated complaint tracking tools to identify emerging investor
concerns and complaint trends to inform rulemaking efforts and the development of
targeted educational materials.

■■

Expand collaborative partnerships: The SEC will partner with other federal and
state agencies, securities regulators and non-profit organizations to shape and target
educational initiatives to maximize their impact on specific communities of interest.

36 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Number of investors reached,
and number of in-person
events with specifically
targeted communities and
organizations

The agency has developed an extensive collection of free
information to help investors understand the basics of
investing; the risks and rewards of various products and
strategies; the importance of diversification; and ways to
find information about brokers, advisers, and companies.
Much of this information is posted on the SEC’s Investor
Information Web page, a key tool for informing and educating
the investing public. In addition, the Office of Investor
Education and Advocacy (OIEA) publishes hard-copy
educational brochures and conducts in-person events. This
measure seeks to determine the total number of investors
reached by the SEC, and assess the effectiveness of outreach
efforts conducted by OIEA and the regional offices targeted
to specific investor groups (for example, seniors, military, or
other affinity groups). The measure also assesses the use of
various channels to reach investors, such as the SEC webpage,
investor.gov, social networking sites, outreach programs, or
public appearances.

Target: To Be Determined *

Number of investor
educational initiatives
organized and produced
Target: 5 per year

Timeliness of responses to
investor contacts
Target: 80% within seven
days and 90% within thirty
days
Percentage of rules
impacting investors that are
presented in alternate userfriendly formats
Target: To Be Determined *

In partnership with other organizations, the agency will
develop a number of educational campaigns intended to
customize content and maximize its reach to various investor
communities. Through the use of primary and secondary
research including tracking emerging investor concerns and
complaints, the agency will compile information on how to
best target its efforts to the investing public. This measure
identifies the number of major investor initiatives undertaken.
OIEA serves the tens of thousands investors each year who
contact the SEC with investment-related complaints and
questions. The staff aims to close out as many new investor
assistance matters as possible within seven and thirty
business days.
The agency intends to publish explanations of Commission
actions in easily understandable language, to encourage
investor participation and comments on issues affecting them.
The agency also will track emerging concerns and trends and
then transmit the information to the rulemaking divisions
and other offices for consideration of possible regulatory
responses. The SEC also may use surveys or questionnaires to
collect input from investors to assist in assessing their views
on Commission actions.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 37

Performance Metric

Description

Customer satisfaction
with usefulness of investor
educational programs and
materials

Through the use of focus groups and surveys, the agency will
assess the usefulness of educational material provided to
investors across a variety of channels based upon ease of use,
appropriateness, and other factors.

Target: To Be Determined *
* These performance metrics are new for the SEC. The agency plans to begin collecting this information and
determine the current, baseline levels for these metrics before establishing targets.

38 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Strategic Goal 4:
Enhance the Commission’s performance through effective alignment
and management of human, information, and financial capital

“The SEC is a relatively small agency, but we are charged with protecting tens of
millions of investors every day. The scope of our responsibility is broad and we feel
the great weight of that responsibility every single day. Adopting new strategies
for investing in our people and systems is fundamental to our success. Creating a
culture of collaboration and leadership across the agency is having a tremendous
impact on how we fulfill our mission. Through improved information technology
tools, knowledge management practices, and staff learning and development
opportunities the agency is transforming its capabilities and achieving better
results.”
CHAIRMAN MARY L. SCHAPIRO

THE PUBLIC AND THE SECURITIES MARKETS are best served by an efficient, effective,
and agile SEC. Given the immense size of the securities markets the SEC regulates, the SEC’s
success in fulfilling its mission is highly dependent upon its ability to continually direct its
resources towards the most productive uses for investors and the public. The SEC also is
extremely mindful of its responsibility to optimize the use of its resources because it is a
government agency entrusted with taxpayer funds.
The agency continuously enhances its performance by making sound investments
in human capital and new technologies and by employing strong financial management
practices. With respect to its workforce, the agency must be able to attract and retain highperforming staff, continually update their skills so they are abreast of the latest developments
in the industry, and create organizational structures and work processes that are efficient and
effective. The agency’s information technology environment must give employees the tools
they need to view, analyze, and act upon the enormous volume of financial data and other
information relevant to oversight of the securities markets. Finally, the SEC must continually
direct its financial resources to their highest and best use, always subject to strong internal
controls.

Outcome 4.1: The SEC maintains a work environment that attracts, engages, and
retains a technically proficient and diverse workforce that can excel and meet the
dynamic challenges of market oversight.
The Commission is committed to being an employer of choice by consistently attracting,
hiring, developing, and retaining a high-quality, diverse, and results-oriented workforce. The
SEC is continually refining a series of programs to enhance its human capital, such as by
rewarding high performance, promoting high employee satisfaction, and updating staff skills
for the effective oversight of the securities markets.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 39

The expertise and specialized skills necessary for the field of securities regulation are a
significant factor shaping the agency’s human capital planning efforts. To maintain a pool of
trained and prepared staff, the SEC is continuing to identify the mission-critical roles and
competencies the agency requires today and in the future. Senior management, working with
human resources staff, must identify the requisite skills, determine whether gaps exist in
the SEC’s workforce, and develop ways to bridge these gaps through training or recruiting
strategies. The agency structures its recruitment efforts to attract new staff from a wide
variety of demographic groups as part of its commitment to a diverse workforce. The SEC
also works to retain high-performing staff, continually evaluating and refining its human capital
programs to address issues that might affect employee satisfaction.

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Increase employee engagement and retention: To retain high caliber talent, the SEC will
implement programs and initiatives focused on employee engagement and retention.
In response to employee survey results, the SEC has conducted numerous interviews
and focus groups with its workforce at every level. The recommendations derived from
this information will form the basis for action plans aimed at improving the agency’s
organizational climate and workforce morale. These plans will be implemented and
evaluated in a manner designed to promote continuous improvement. Improvements
in organizational climate and workforce morale should lead to greater employee
engagement and increased retention, particularly of high-performing employees.

■■

Enhance employee development program: For the SEC to fulfill its mission it must
not only attract and select the most accomplished people in their fields, it must also
continually invest in their training and development so that each employee can achieve
and maintain the highest level of performance. Changes in market conditions, securities
laws, federal regulations, best practices, and technology create challenges that must be
met by a workforce skilled at managing change and supported by a strategic but flexible
developmental program. The Office of Human Resources will encourage and monitor
the use of individual development plans so that employee-specific needs are met. This
initiative will be further enhanced by the implementation of a learning management
system to automatically track learning programs, certifications, and competency gaps.
This system will allow the Office to meet stakeholder reporting requirements efficiently.

■■

Promote a diverse talent pipeline: The SEC will develop and implement strategies
and programs focused on creating a diverse talent pipeline to meet the SEC’s current
and future workforce needs. These strategies will include developing and expanding
strategic partnerships and alliances with diverse educational institutions, professional
associations, and community-based organizations. These partnerships and business
alliances will also provide the SEC opportunities to recruit mid-level to high-level
career professionals from all segments of society.

■■

Implement new performance management program: To promote the highest level
of personal and organizational performance, the SEC must have a performance
management program that is robust, credible, fair, and transparent. In FY 2009, the
SEC implemented a new performance management system among its managers and
supervisors. In FY 2010, the SEC will implement a similar system among all Senior
Officers and non-supervisory staff. The SEC will invest in an extensive training program

40 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

for managers and other employees, evaluate the effectiveness and acceptability of the
system, make improvements based on results of the evaluation, and support the program
with technology and experienced consultants.

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Survey of employee
engagement

The SEC strives to maintain a culture in which employees
demonstrate a strong personal, positive connection with
the organization and its mission and strategic goals. This
connection, which can be called “employee engagement,”
can result in higher-quality work, willingness to lead or
participate in special projects, sharing job knowledge with
others, mentoring other staff, or other positive contributions
to the agency and its work. This index will be drawn from
annual survey results and will track the agency’s success in
improving employee engagement.

Target: Biennial Index score
of 65% positive

Best Places to Work ranking
Target: Ranking of at
least 5
Turnover
Target: Annual rate of no
more than 8% turnover

Expanding staff expertise
Target: To Be Determined *

This biennial ranking of federal government agencies will be
used to determine the SEC’s overall success in improving our
organizational climate.
The SEC strives to maintain an organizational climate in
which high-performing employees wish to remain. Although
turnover can fluctuate based on a variety of factors, including
the health of the economy and the number of outside job
opportunities available for SEC staff, the agency aims to keep
its turnover rate relatively low, below 8% per year.
Internal training and hiring programs are designed to
help the agency recruit and develop its staff so that key
skills, industry knowledge, and expertise are maintained.
In particular, there is a need to hire more economists,
trading specialists, and other experts with knowledge of the
marketplace and both investment and trading practices. As
the industry evolves, requisite staff skills and competencies
are adjusted to stay current. Annual agency training goals
and hiring practices are focused on ensuring staff have the
necessary capabilities to address trends in the industry. This
measure tracks whether certain areas requiring significant
training are being addressed.
For example, the agency will monitor the percentage of staff
that has received or maintained significant relevant training
in fraud detection as measured by achieving the status of a
Certified Fraud Examiner, Chartered Financial Analyst, Series
7, or other relevant industry designations.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 41

Performance Metric

Description

Size of competency gaps

Key competencies will be rated as part of our Performance
Management process. Once the SEC has implemented a
technology system to support the performance management
program, the agency will assess its baseline competency gaps
annually and work to bring them down over time.

Target: 10% reduction
annually

Number of diversity-related
partnerships/alliances
Target: 10 partnerships or
alliances by 2014

Survey feedback on the
quality of the SEC’s
performance management
program

Increased numbers of diversity-related partnerships and
alliances with professional associations and educational
organizations provide opportunities to educate students
about the SEC’s work and to recruit career professionals from
all segments of society. The SEC will track the number of
partnerships or alliances and monitor the number and quality
of hires stemming from these partnerships and alliances.
The SEC will construct an index from survey results to
determine the extent to which managers and other employees
find the performance management program valuable, credible,
transparent, and fair.

Target: 65% positive
responses annually
* This performance metric is new for the SEC, and the agency must further refine the statistic before
establishing a target.

Outcome 4.2: The SEC retains a diverse team of world-class leaders who provide
motivation and strategic direction to the SEC workforce.
The SEC’s success at fulfilling its strategic goals depends upon effective leadership at all
levels. From branch chiefs to the agency’s senior leadership, the SEC’s leaders must not
only motivate and manage employees effectively, but also play a critical role in identifying
the key areas on which staff should focus their attention to generate the greatest benefit for
investors. Through leadership and employee development programs, the Commission seeks to
maintain a diverse cadre of technically proficient leaders that can conduct their supervisory
responsibilities effectively and meet the dynamic challenges of market oversight.

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Leadership development program: To make certain the SEC has the caliber of
leadership commensurate with its mission, the SEC will continue the construction and
implementation of a comprehensive leadership development program. Specific aspects
of the program include improving training for new supervisors, building skills in change
management, increasing the number and scope of developmental opportunities for all
leaders, and instituting a program to prepare non-supervisors to assume supervisory
roles. In addition, the SEC will gradually institute a 360-degree feedback program for
all Senior Officers and supervisors. The program will include targeted feedback, tailored
developmental opportunities, and coaching.

42 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

■■

Employ evidence-based selection: Ensuring that those with the greatest capacity for
leadership are chosen for managerial positions is a key step in enhancing the leadership
of the SEC. To achieve this objective, the SEC will enhance its approach towards
selection, by training and supporting hiring officials in the use of better selection
criteria, including the development and implementation of behavioral interviews. Once
instituted, the SEC will consider whether to expand this approach to non-supervisory
positions.

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Quality of Hire

Data related to each new hire will be gathered from either the
immediate supervisor or the selecting official, as appropriate.
Data will be gathered three months after entry on board. This
early assessment will not only inform the agency’s selection
system, but will provide an opportunity to address quickly
any developmental needs or performance issues.

Target: 75% rated at least
4 on a five-point scale
annually
Leadership Competency
Gaps
Target: Reduce gaps by 10%
in each survey

Satisfaction with Leadership
Development Program
Target: Average score of 4 on
a 5-point scale

A 360-degree feedback survey will be conducted across all
leadership ranks. This will provide an SEC-wide score on
each competency measured in the survey. The gap will be
determined by subtracting the obtained scores from expected
proficiency levels on key competencies. Progress will be
determined by comparing this baseline to scores obtained
from subsequent administrations of the survey.
After each major developmental event participants will
complete a survey of items related to key training outcomes.
Responses to these items will be compiled to create a
composite score.

Outcome 4.3: Information within and available to the SEC becomes a Commissionwide shared resource, appropriately protected, that enables a collaborative and
knowledge-based working environment.
Information technology plays a crucial role in the mission of the SEC. The increasing size
and complexity of the U.S. markets require that the SEC leverage technology to continuously
improve its productivity, as well as identify and address the most significant threats to
investors. Information technology is an increasingly vital function to the SEC in modernizing
filing practices, disseminating the vast quantity of regulatory filings, managing the large
number of internal business processes and work products, and protecting the agency’s
information assets.
The SEC gathers a wide variety of financial data and other information from a variety of
sources, including filings, the agency’s investigations and examinations, tips and complaints,
and commercial vendors. The agency is working to build systems that will allow more of this
information to be quickly shared, analyzed, and joined with other information about the same
Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 43

entity or individual. These efforts hold promise to save staff time, provide better information
about the firms the SEC regulates, and enhance the agency’s ability to uncover hidden risks to
investors.
The SEC also continually invests in the agency’s information technology infrastructure
to maintain the necessary capacity, performance, resiliency, and security required to support
the agency’s business processes and information stores. The SEC will continue to improve
the enterprise architecture, capital planning and investment control, information security
management and privacy management programs to effectively oversee its information
technology systems.

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Make disclosure information more useful for analysis: Disclosure documents are
submitted to the Commission electronically and, as appropriate, disseminated
electronically to the investing public. This initiative will review the current disclosure
systems and processes and identify ways to optimize the use of technology to improve
the way disclosure documents are constructed and submitted with more emphasis on
data collection. A new filing system that is optimized for data retrieval and analysis
will provide features that help users create filings that are appropriate to their purpose
and that allow computers to extract data from the filings for automated analysis. The
system will be more flexible, so as new disclosure documents are defined they can be
implemented much more quickly, with all of the features of a modern, web-based filing
system. Eventually, new filings structured for automated data retrieval and analysis will
replace all filings submitted through the EDGAR system.

■■

Improve SEC’s information management and analysis functions: The SEC aims to
provide access to information and effective analytical capabilities for all appropriate
staff in the agency. To accomplish this outcome, the SEC will work on several fronts
to improve its abilities to acquire, store, manage, and deliver data and information in
support of its critical business functions. Among the steps in this effort are cataloging
the SEC’s data and its interrelationships; ensuring data quality; and establishing
new methods for capturing information, including from SEC staff themselves as they
conduct examinations, investigations, and other activities.

■■

Enhance workflow and document management: Virtually all business processes within
the Commission involve the acquisition, creation, review, and editing of documents.
These processes are conducted informally without the benefit of automated tracking,
notification, and auditing capabilities. Under this initiative, the SEC will assess
its critical business processes and apply document management tools to increase
productivity, enhance collaboration, and create a shared repository of essential
documents and data. Among the business areas that would benefit from this effort are
enforcement case management, disgorgement and penalties, examination management,
management of Commission actions, filing of administrative proceedings, and
rulemaking.

■■

Enhance the SEC’s electronic discovery program: The SEC must have the technical
capability to electronically organize and retrieve an extraordinary volume of documents
obtained in the conduct of investigations. Under this initiative, the SEC will enhance
the agency’s current electronic discovery tools, to improve the agency’s document
storage, organization, and analytic capabilities. The agency also will create a repository

44 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

of documents and data that is more widely available across cases and with other
Commission business functions as appropriate.
■■

Enhance operational resiliency: The SEC will support a reliable mobile computing
environment that provides high performance, security, and cost effectiveness. The agency
also will enhance the computing infrastructure, including through server virtualization
and clustering, to eliminate down time if systems at one site fail, enhance security, and
achieve cost savings.

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Percentage of SEC data
sources accessible through a
virtual data warehouse, and
milestones achieved towards
the creation of a robust
information management
program

The SEC intends to reform its information management
processes, so that data can be more easily accessed, shared,
and analyzed across the organization. This metric will display
the percentage of SEC data sources accessible for search and
analysis through a virtual data warehouse. In addition, the
SEC will track its success in achieving relevant milestones
over the course of this multi-year effort. These milestones
include establishing a formal information management
program in 2010, completing an information catalog by 2011,
providing capabilities to support analysis of information by
2012, and developing a capability that allows integration
of business operations data for management, reporting and
analysis by 2013.

Data sources accessible
through virtual data
warehouse:
Target to be determined.*
Milestones: Target is to stay
on schedule to “enable” all
SEC data sources by 2013.
Deployment of document
management and workflow
tools
Target: Deployment of tools
for the enforcement and
examination programs by
2010 and other key offices
such as the Office of the
Secretary by 2011.

This metric will present the SEC’s success in applying
document management and workflow tools to the
Commission’s mission critical business functions. Over
time, the SEC aims to deploy these tools for enforcement
case management, the agency’s processes for handling
disgorgement and penalties, examination management,
management of Commission actions, and rulemaking.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 45

Performance Metric

Description

Time to process evidentiary
material for enforcement
investigations

The SEC aims to improve its ability to process evidentiary
material gathered during the course of its enforcement
investigations, and enhance the agency’s document storage,
organization, and analytical capabilities. This metric will
gauge whether these efforts succeed in reducing the time
required to process evidentiary material, so it can be analyzed
by enforcement staff.

Target: To Be Determined *

System Availability
Target: Systems are available
more than 99% of the time;
all systems and applications
fail over within 4 hours of
a data center outage; 50%
of all SEC systems are
virtualized by 2014.

The SEC aims to enhance its computing infrastructure
to eliminate down time if systems at one site fail, among
other objectives. This metric will capture the percentage of
systems and applications that can fail over within 4 hours.
In addition, the SEC will track the percentage of its systems
that have been virtualized, further reducing down time and
increasing their accessibility from alternative locations.

* This performance metric is new for the SEC. The agency plans to begin collecting this information and
determine the current, baseline level for this metric before establishing a target.

Outcome 4.4: Resource decisions and operations reflect sound financial and risk
management principles.
The public has every right to expect that the SEC will maintain strong financial management
practices and robust internal controls. The SEC is placing great emphasis on bolstering
its processes and systems in its budgeting, accounting, and internal control functions. In
addition, the agency continues to focus on delivering complete, concise, and meaningful
information about the financial and operating performance of the agency that supports
management decision making.

Initiatives:
To accomplish this outcome, the SEC plans to implement the following initiatives:
■■

Better integrate data from SEC administrative functions: To accomplish the SEC’s
mission it is essential that management decisions are based on the best available
information from multiple sources. This requires integrating information from human
resources, financial management, information technology, and administrative services
functions. To improve decision making and reporting capabilities, the SEC will examine
its data collection, analysis and reporting methods to determine areas for improvement.

■■

Achieve full integration of the SEC’s financial systems: The key to strengthening the
agency’s internal controls is to fully integrate the agency’s financial management
systems. This initiative will fully interface all systems affecting the financial status of
the agency, using a service-oriented architecture that will allow changes to be made to
one system without affecting other interfaced systems.

46 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

■■

Continue strong performance and accountability reporting: Under the Accountability
of Tax Dollars Act of 2002, the agency is required to prepare and submit annual audited
financial statements. The SEC’s audits are conducted by the Government Accountability
Office (GAO). The agency strives to maintain the highest standards of internal control
and financial reporting. Agency staff will continue to evaluate and strengthen the
agency’s internal control posture to support unqualified audit opinions.

Performance Metrics:
The SEC intends to use the following performance measures to gauge its progress in
achieving this outcome:
Performance Metric

Description

Milestones achieved towards
establishment of a robust
data management program

A business process improvement effort will be initiated
to identify enhancements needed to create a robust data
management program over the next five years. This metric
will gauge the agency’s success in establishing an integrated
enterprise data management, reporting, and analysis
capability for mission and back office data.

Target:
a) Key administrative data
and reporting requirements
identified by FY 2010;
b) Relevant mission
program data and reporting
requirements identified by
FY 2011;
c) All key processes for data
collection and reporting
(based on (a) and (b) above)
determined and documented
by FY 2012;
d) An integrated, automated
data management program
established by FY 2014,
providing regular and ad hoc
reporting and analysis.
Financial systems integration
Target: All interfaces
between the core financial
system and secondary
systems that impact the
Commission’s financial
statements are automated.

As part of the SEC’s effort to integrate its financial systems,
the agency will measure the percentage of secondary systems
that are fully interfaced with the core financial system, in
compliance with applicable standards.

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 47

Performance Metric

Description

Financial audit results

Under the Accountability of Taxpayer Dollars Act of 2002,
the agency is required to meet all proprietary and budgetary
accounting guidelines for federal agencies and to undergo
annual audits. The SEC’s audits are conducted by the
Government Accountability Office.

Target: An unqualified
audit opinion on SEC
financial statements and no
material weakness or nonconformance.

48 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Program Evaluation
The SEC values independent, high-quality assessments of the agency’s performance against
its goals and desired outcomes. Such assessments are critical to the Commission’s ability
to evaluate its work, refine its programs, and redirect resources accordingly. The more
than 150 audits, studies, and evaluations of SEC programs and securities industry-related
issues completed since the release of the agency’s previous Strategic Plan have served as an
important resource in the development of this Strategic Plan. Over the next five years, the
SEC will continue to draw on evaluations from a variety of sources to improve its programs.

Performance and Accountability Report
Beginning in fall 2004, the SEC has published annually a Performance and Accountability
Report (PAR), describing the agency’s accomplishments and presenting the results associated
with the agency’s performance metrics. The most recent version of the SEC’s PAR can be
found on the agency’s website, at www.sec.gov. The SEC’s Reports for FY 2006, FY 2007,
and FY 2008 all have received the prestigious Certificate of Excellence in Accountability
Reporting from the Association of Government Accountants.

Consultation with Outside Groups
The SEC frequently seeks the input of investors, industry groups, academia, and other experts
to gain outside perspectives about its programs and various issues in the securities industry.
These efforts include the SEC’s newly-formed Investor Advisory Committee; Commissionsponsored roundtables focused on specific issues; the agency’s Annual Government-Business
Forum on Capital Formation, focused particularly on the needs of new, small, medium-sized,
and independent businesses; the SEC’s annual conference with the North American Securities
Administrators Association; and solicitations of public comments on Commission rule
proposals.

Government Accountability Office
The Government Accountability Office conducts dozens of studies or investigations related
to the SEC’s programs every year. In FY 2009, GAO’s reports covered communication and
utilization of resources within the enforcement program, oversight of clearing agencies, and
the Commission’s rules regarding short selling, among other areas. In addition, GAO performs
an annual audit of the SEC’s financial statements and internal controls.

Office of the Inspector General
The Office of Inspector General (OIG) is an independent office within the SEC that conducts
audits of programs and operations of the Commission and investigations into allegations of
misconduct by staff or contractors. In FY 2009, OIG reports covered the agency’s oversight of
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations, SEC’s activities involving Bernard L.
Madoff, as well as procurement and contract management functions, among other areas.

Independent Evaluations
During 2009, the agency sought review of its complaints, tips, and referrals process. The
evaluation was conducted by the Center for Enterprise Modernization, a federally funded
research and development center operated by the MITRE Corporation. Recommendations

Strategic Plan for Fiscal Years 2010 –2015 49

resulting from the assessment touch upon operations across the SEC and are currently being
implemented. A review of the agency’s processes for managing Freedom of Information Act
requests also was conducted to improve response times and reduce the backlog of pending
requests.
The SEC is expanding the use of surveys conducted by independent organizations as
part of its program evaluation practices. In addition to the Federal Employee Viewpoint
Survey conducted by the Office of Personnel Management, the agency will participate in
the American Customer Satisfaction Index covering the government sector. Independent
assessments to evaluate the effectiveness of internal controls over agency financial reporting
and its information technology long-term strategy also are planned.

50 U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission

Planning for the Future
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
www.sec.gov
www.investor.gov

