SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970
[AS AMENDED

THROUGH

P.L. 112-90,

APPROVED

JANUARY 3, 2012]

AN ACT to provide greater protection for customers of registered
brokers and dealers and members of national securities exchanges.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress assembled,
SEC. 1. SHORT TITLE, ETC.
(a) SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF

CONTENTS.—This Act, with the fol­
lowing table of contents, may be cited as the ‘‘Securities Investor
Protection Act of 1970’’.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.
Sec.

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Short Title. 

2. Application of Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 

3. Securities Investor Protection Corporation. 

4. Sipc Fund. 

5. Protection of Customers. 

6. General Provisions of A Liquidation Proceeding. 

7. Powers and Duties of Trustee. 

8. Special Provisions of A Liquidation Proceeding. 

9. Sipc Advances. 

10. Direct Payment Procedure. 

11. Sec Functions. 

12. Examining Authority Functions. 

13. Functions of Self-Regulatory Organizations. 

14. Prohibited Acts. 

15. Miscellaneous Provisions. 

16. Definitions.

(b) SECTION HEADINGS.—Headings for sections

and subsections,
and the table of contents, are included only for convenience, and
shall be given No legal effect.
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 1, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat. 1636; Pub. L. 95­
283, Sec. 17, May 21, 1978, 92 Stat. 275.)
AMENDMENTS

1978 — Pub. L. 95-283 made changes in table of contents.
SEC. 2. APPLICATION OF SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.

Except as otherwise provided in this Act, the provisions of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C., sec. 78a and fol.; here­
inafter referred to as the ‘‘1934 Act’’) apply as if this Act con­
stituted an amendment to, and was included as a section of, such
Act.
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 2, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat. 1637.)
1

Sec. 3

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

2

REFERENCES IN TEXT

The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, referred to in text,
is act June 6, 1934, ch. 404, 48 Stat. 881, as amended, which
is classified generally to chapter 2B (Sec. 78a et seq.) of U.S.
Code Title 15, Commerce and Trade.
SEC. 3. SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION CORPORATION.
(a) CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.—
(1) CREATION.—There is hereby established a body

cor­
porate to be known as the ‘‘Securities Investor Protection Cor­
poration’’ (hereafter in this Act referred to as ‘‘SIPC’’). SIPC
shall be a nonprofit corporation and shall have succession until
dissolved by Act of the Congress. SIPC shall—
(A) not be an agency or establishment of the United
States Government; and
(B) except as otherwise provided in this Act, be subject
to, and have all the powers conferred upon a nonprofit cor­
poration by, the District of Columbia Nonprofit Corpora­
tion Act (D.C. Code, section 29-1001 and fol.).
(2) MEMBERSHIP.—
(A) MEMBERS OF SIPC.—SIPC shall be a membership
corporation the members of which shall be all persons reg­
istered as brokers or dealers under section 15(b) of the
1934 Act, other than—
(i) persons whose principal business, in the deter­
mination of SIPC, taking into account business of af­
filiated entities, is conducted outside the United States
and its territories and possessions;
(ii) persons whose business as a broker or dealer
consists exclusively of (I) the distribution of shares of
registered open end investment companies or unit in­
vestment trusts, (II) the sale of variable annuities,
(III) the business of insurance, or (IV) the business of
rendering investment advisory services to one or more
registered investment companies or insurance com­
pany separate accounts; and
(iii) persons who are registered as a broker or
dealer pursuant to section 15(b)(11)(A) of the Securi­
ties Exchange Act of 1934.
(B) COMMISSION REVIEW.—SIPC shall file with the
Commission a copy of any determination made pursuant to
subparagraph (A)(i). Within thirty days after the date of
such filing, or within such longer period as the Commis­
sion may designate of not more than ninety days after
such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate
and publishes its reasons for so finding, the Commission
shall, consistent with the public interest and the purposes
of this Act, affirm, reverse, or amend any such determina­
tion of SIPC.
(C) ADDITIONAL MEMBERS.—SIPC shall provide by rule
that persons excluded from membership in SIPC under
subparagraph (A)(i) may become members of SIPC under
such conditions and upon such terms as SIPC shall require

3

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 3

by rule, taking into account such matters as the avail­
ability of assets and the ability to conduct a liquidation if
necessary.
(D) DISCLOSURE.—Any broker or dealer excluded from
membership in SIPC under subparagraph (A)(i) shall, as
required by the Commission by rule, make disclosures of
its exclusion and other relevant information to the cus­
tomers of such broker or dealer who are living in the
United States or its territories and possessions.
(b) POWERS.—In addition to the powers granted to SIPC else­
where in this Act, SIPC shall have the power—
(1) to sue and be sued, complain and defend, in its cor­
porate name and through its own counsel, in any State, Fed­
eral, or other court;
(2) to adopt, alter, and use a corporate seal, which shall be
judicially noticed;
(3) to adopt, amend, and repeal, by its Board of Directors,
such bylaws as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out
the purposes of this Act, including bylaws relating to—
(A) the conduct of its business; and
(B) the indemnity of its directors, officers, and employ­
ees (including any such person acting as trustee or other­
wise in connection with a liquidation proceeding) for liabil­
ities and expenses actually and reasonably incurred by any
such person in connection with the defense or settlement
of an action or suit if such person acted in good faith and
in a manner reasonably believed to be consistent with the
purposes of this Act.
(4) to adopt, amend, and repeal, by its Board of Directors,
such rules as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out the
purposes of this Act, including rules relating to—
(A) the definition of terms used in this Act, other than
those terms for which a definition is provided in section
16;
(B) the procedures for the liquidation of members and
direct payment procedures, including the transfer of cus­
tomer accounts, the distribution of customer property, and
the advance and payment of SIPC funds; and
(C) the exercise of all other rights and powers granted
to it by this Act;
(5) to conduct its business (including the carrying on of op­
erations and the maintenance of offices) and to exercise all
other rights and powers granted to it by this Act in any State
or other jurisdiction without regard to any qualification, licens­
ing, or other statute in such State or other jurisdiction;
(6) to lease, purchase, accept gifts or donations of or other­
wise acquire, to own, hold, improve, use, or otherwise deal in
or with, and to sell, convey, mortgage, pledge, lease, exchange
or otherwise dispose of, any property, real, personal or mixed,
or any interest therein, wherever situated;
(7) subject to the provisions of subsection (c), to elect or ap­
point such officers, attorneys, employees, and agents as may be
required, to determine their qualifications, to define their du­

Sec. 3

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

4

ties, to fix their salaries, require bonds for them and fix the
penalty thereof;
(8) to enter into contracts, to execute instruments, to incur
liabilities, and to do any and all other acts and things as may
be necessary or incidental to the conduct of its business and
the exercise of all other rights and powers granted to SIPC by
this Act; and
(9) by bylaw, to establish its fiscal year.
(c) BOARD OF DIRECTORS.—
(1) FUNCTIONS.—SIPC shall have a Board of Directors
which, subject to the provisions of this Act, shall determine the
policies which shall govern the operations of SIPC.
(2) NUMBER AND APPOINTMENT.—The Board of Directors
shall consist of seven persons as follows:
(A) One director shall be appointed by the Secretary of
the Treasury from among the officers and employees of the
Department of the Treasury.
(B) One director shall be appointed by the Federal Re­
serve Board from among the officers and employees of the
Federal Reserve Board.
(C) Five directors shall be appointed by the President,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, as fol­
lows—
(i) three such directors shall be selected from
among persons who are associated with, and rep­
resentative of different aspects of, the securities indus­
try, not all of whom shall be from the same geo­
graphical area of the United States, and
(ii) two such directors shall be selected from the
general public from among persons who are not associ­
ated with a broker or dealer or associated with a mem­
ber of a national securities exchange, within the
meaning of section 3(a)(18) or section 3(a)(21), respec­
tively, of the 1934 Act, or similarly associated with
any self-regulatory organization or other securities in­
dustry group, and who have not had any such associa­
tion during the two years preceding appointment.
(3) CHAIRMAN AND VICE CHAIRMAN.—The President shall
designate a Chairman and Vice Chairman from among those
directors appointed under paragraph (2)(C)(ii) of this sub­
section.
(4) TERMS.—
(A) Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C),
each director shall be appointed for a term of three years.
(B) Of the directors first appointed under paragraph
(2)—
(i) two shall hold office for a term expiring on De­
cember 31, 1971,
(ii) two shall hold office for a term expiring on De­
cember 31, 1972, and
(iii) three shall hold office for a term expiring on
December 31, 1973,
as designated by the President at the time they take office.
Such designation shall be made in a manner which will as­

5

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 3

sure that no two persons appointed under the authority of
the same clause of paragraph (2)(C) shall have terms
which expire simultaneously.
(C) A vacancy in the Board shall be filled in the same
manner as the original appointment was made. Any direc­
tor appointed to fill a vacancy occurring prior to the expi­
ration of the term for which his predecessor was appointed
shall be appointed only for the remainder of such term. A
director may serve after the expiration of his term until
his successor has taken office.
(5) COMPENSATION.—All matters relating to compensation
of directors shall be as provided in the bylaws of SIPC.
(d) MEETINGS OF BOARD.—The Board of Directors shall meet at
the call of its Chairman, or as otherwise provided by the bylaws
of SIPC.
(e) BYLAWS AND RULES.—
(1) PROPOSED BYLAW CHANGES.—The Board of Directors of
SIPC shall file with the Commission a copy of any proposed
bylaw or any proposed amendment to or repeal of any bylaw
of SIPC (hereinafter in this paragraph collectively referred to
as a ‘‘proposed bylaw change’’), accompanied by a concise gen­
eral statement of the basis and purpose of such proposed bylaw
change. Each such proposed bylaw change shall take effect
thirty days after the date of the filing of a copy thereof with
the Commission, or upon such later date as SIPC may des­
ignate or such earlier date as the Commission may determine,
unless—
(A) the Commission, by notice to SIPC setting forth
the reasons therefor, disapproves such proposed bylaw
change as being contrary to the public interest or contrary
to the purposes of this Act; or
(B) the Commission finds that such proposed bylaw
change involves a matter of such significant public interest
that public comment should be obtained, in which case it
may, after notifying SIPC in writing of such finding, re­
quire that the procedures set forth in paragraph (2) be fol­
lowed with respect to such proposed bylaw change, in the
same manner as if such proposed bylaw change were a
proposed rule change within the meaning of such para­
graph.
(2) PROPOSED RULE CHANGES.—
(A) FILING OF PROPOSED RULE CHANGES.—The Board of
Directors of SIPC shall file with the Commission, in ac­
cordance with such rules as the Commission may pre­
scribe, a copy of any proposed rule or any proposed amend­
ment to or repeal of any rule of SIPC (hereinafter in this
subsection collectively referred to as a ‘‘proposed rule
change’’), accompanied by a concise general statement of
the basis and purpose of such proposed rule change. The
Commission shall, upon the filing of any proposed rule
change, publish notice thereof, together with the terms of
substance of such proposed rule change or a description of
the subjects and issues involved. The Commission shall
give interested persons an opportunity to submit written

Sec. 3

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

6

data, views, and arguments with respect to such proposed
rule change. No proposed rule change shall take effect un­
less approved by the Commission or otherwise permitted
in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph.
(B) ACTION BY THE COMMISSION.—Within thirty-five
days after the date of publication of notice of the filing of
a proposed rule change, or within such longer period as
the Commission may designate of not more than ninety
days after such date if it finds such longer period to be ap­
propriate and publishes its reasons for so finding, or as to
which SIPC consents, the Commission shall—
(i) by order approve such proposed rule change; or
(ii) institute proceedings to determine whether
such proposed rule change should be disapproved.
(C) PROCEEDINGS.—Proceedings instituted with re­
spect to a proposed rule change pursuant to subparagraph
(B)(ii) shall include notice of the grounds for disapproval
under consideration and opportunity for hearing, and shall
be concluded within one hundred eighty days after the
date of publication of notice of the filing of such proposed
rule change. At the conclusion of such proceedings, the
Commission shall, by order, approve or disapprove such
proposed rule change. The Commission may extend the
time for conclusion of such proceedings for not more than
sixty days if it finds good cause for such extension and
publishes its reasons for so finding, or for such longer pe­
riod as to which SIPC consents.
(D) GROUNDS FOR APPROVAL OR DISAPPROVAL.—The
Commission shall approve a proposed rule change if it
finds that such proposed rule change is in the public inter­
est and is consistent with the purposes of this Act, and any
proposed rule change so approved shall be given force and
effect as if promulgated by the Commission. The Commis­
sion shall disapprove a proposed rule change if it does not
make the finding referred to in the preceding sentence.
The Commission shall not approve any proposed rule
change prior to thirty days after the date of publication of
notice of the filing thereof, unless the Commission finds
good cause for so doing and publishes its reasons for so
finding.
(E) EXCEPTION.—Notwithstanding any other provision
of this paragraph, a proposed rule change may take ef­
fect—
(i) upon the date of filing with the Commission, if
such proposed rule change is designated by SIPC as
relating solely to matters which the Commission, con­
sistent with the public interest and the purposes of
this subsection, determines by rule do not require the
procedures set forth in this paragraph; or
(ii) upon such date as the Commission shall for
good cause determine. Any proposed rule change
which takes effect under this clause shall be filed
promptly thereafter and reviewed in accordance with
the provisions of subparagraph (A).

7

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 3

At any time within sixty days after the date of filing of any
rule change which has taken effect pursuant to this sub­
paragraph, the Commission may summarily abrogate such
rule change and require that it be refiled and reviewed in
accordance with the provisions of this paragraph, if the
Commission finds that such action is necessary or appro­
priate in the public interest, for the protection of investors,
or otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of this Act.
Any action of the Commission pursuant to the preceding
sentence shall not affect the validity or force of a rule
change during the period it was in effect and shall not be
reviewable under section 25 of the 1934 Act or deemed to
be final agency action for purposes of section 704 of title
5, United States Code.
(3) ACTION REQUIRED BY COMMISSION.—The Commission
may, by such rules as it determines to be necessary or appro­
priate in the public interest or to carry out the purposes of this
Act, require SIPC to adopt, amend, or repeal any SIPC bylaw
or rule, whenever adopted.
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 3, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat. 1637; Pub. L. 95­
283, Sec. 2-5, May 21, 1978, 92 Stat. 249-251; Pub. L. 106-554, Sec.
1(a)(5) [title II, Sec. 203(d)(2)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763,
2763A-424.)
REFERENCES IN TEXT

The District of Columbia Nonprofit Corporation Act, re­
ferred to in text, is Pub. L. 87-569, Aug. 6, 1962, 76 Stat. 265,
as amended.
The 1934 Act, referred to in text, as meaning the Securi­
ties Exchange Act of 1934, see section 2 of this Act.
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, referred to in text,
is act June 6, 1934, ch. 404, 48 Stat. 881, as amended, which
is classified generally to chapter 2B (Sec. 78a et seq.) of U.S.
Code Title 15, Commerce and Trade.
AMENDMENTS

2000 — Subsec. (a)(2)(A)(iii). Pub. L. 106-554 added cl.
(iii).
1978 — Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 2(a), substituted
‘‘Creation and membership’’ for ‘‘Creation’’ in heading, redesig­
nated introductory text and cls. (1) and (3) as par. (1), and
added par. 2 which incorporated provisions formerly contained
in cl. (2) as par. (2)(A).
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 3, in par. (1) substituted
‘‘State, Federal, or other court’’ for ‘‘court, State, or Federal’’,
in par. (3) substituted provisions relating to adoption, etc., of
bylaws by the Board of Directors, for provisions relating to
adoption, etc., of bylaws and rules by the Board of Directors,
added par. (4), and redesignated former pars. (4) to (8) as (5)
to (9), respectively.
Subsec. (c)(2)(C)(ii). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 4(a), amended cl.
(ii) generally.

Sec. 4

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

8

Subsec. (c)(5). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 4(b), substituted ‘‘Com­
pensation’’ for ‘‘Compensation, etc.’’ in heading, and in text
struck out provisions relating to determinations of dollar vol­
ume of trading on exchanges.
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 5, inserted ‘‘and rules’’
after ‘‘Bylaws’’ in heading, and in text substituted provisions
relating to procedures applicable to proposed changes in the
bylaws and rules of SIPC and required action by the Commis­
sion with respect to any SIPC bylaw or rule, for provisions re­
lating to procedures applicable to adoption of initial bylaws
and rules of SIPC and any alteration, supplement, repeal, or
addition, effective date of any such bylaw or rule, and required
action by the Commission with respect to any SIPC bylaw or
rule.
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 2(b), struck out subsec. (f)
which set forth qualifications for other members of SIPC.
SEC. 4. SIPC FUND.
(a) IN GENERAL.—
(1) ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.—SIPC

shall establish an
‘‘SIPC Fund’’ (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the ‘‘fund’’).
All amounts received by SIPC (other than amounts paid di­
rectly to any lender pursuant to any pledge securing a bor­
rowing by SIPC) shall be deposited in the fund, and all expend­
itures made by SIPC shall be made out of the fund.
(2) BALANCE OF THE FUND.—Except as otherwise provided
in this section, the balance of the fund at any time shall con­
sist of the aggregate at such time of the following items:
(A) Cash on hand or on deposit.
(B) Amounts invested in United States Government or
agency securities.
(C) Such confirmed lines of credit as SIPC may from
time to time maintain, other than those maintained pursu­
ant to paragraph (4).
(3) CONFIRMED LINES OF CREDIT.—For purposes of this sec­
tion, the amount of confirmed lines of credit as of any time is
the aggregate amount which SIPC at such time has the right
to borrow from banks and other financial institutions under
confirmed lines of credit or other written agreements which
provide that moneys so borrowed are to be repayable by SIPC
not less than one year from the time of such borrowings (in­
cluding, for purposes of determining when such moneys are re­
payable, all rights of extension, refunding, or renewal at the
election of SIPC).
(4) OTHER LINES.—SIPC may maintain such other con­
firmed lines of credit as it considers necessary or appropriate,
and such other confirmed lines of credit shall not be included
in the balance of the fund, but amounts received from such
lines of credit may be disbursed by SIPC under this Act as
though such amounts were part of the fund.
(b) INITIAL REQUIRED BALANCE FOR FUND.—Within one hun­
dred and twenty days from the date of enactment of this Act, the

9

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 4

balance of the fund shall aggregate not less than $75,000,000, less
any amounts expended from the fund within that period.
(c) ASSESSMENTS.—
(1) INITIAL ASSESSMENTS.—Each member of SIPC shall pay
to SIPC, or the collection agent for SIPC specified in section
9(a), on or before the one hundred and twentieth day following
the date of enactment of this Act, an assessment equal to oneeighth of 1 per centum of the gross revenues from the securi­
ties business of such member during the calendar year 1969,
or if the Commission shall determine that, for purposes of as­
sessment pursuant to this paragraph, a lesser percentage of
gross revenues from the securities business is appropriate for
any class or classes of members (taking into account relevant
factors, including but not limited to types of business done and
nature of securities sold), such lesser percentages as the Com­
mission, by rule or regulation, shall establish for such class or
classes, but in no event less than one-sixteenth of 1 per centum
for any such class. In no event shall any assessment upon a
member pursuant to this paragraph be less than $150.
(2) GENERAL ASSESSMENT AUTHORITY.—SIPC shall, by
bylaw, impose upon its members such assessments as, after
consultation with self- regulatory organizations, SIPC may
deem necessary and appropriate to establish and maintain the
fund and to repay any borrowings by SIPC. Any assessments
so made shall be in conformity with contractual obligations
made by SIPC in connection with any borrowing incurred by
SIPC. Subject to paragraph (3) and subsection (d)(1)(A), any
such assessment upon the members, or any one or more classes
thereof, may, in whole or in part, be based upon or measured
by (A) the amount of their gross revenues from the securities
business, or (B) all or any of the following factors: the amount
or composition of their gross revenues from the securities busi­
ness, the number or dollar volume of transactions effected by
them, the number of customer accounts maintained by them or
the amounts of cash and securities in such accounts, their net
capital, the nature of their activities (whether in the securities
business or otherwise) and the consequent risks, or other rel­
evant factors.
(3) LIMITATIONS.—Notwithstanding any other provision of
this Act—
(A) no assessment shall be made upon a member oth­
erwise than pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) of this sub­
section,
(B) an assessment may be made under paragraph (2)
of this subsection at a rate in excess of one-half of one per
centum during any twelve-month period if SIPC deter­
mines, in accordance with a bylaw, that such rate of as­
sessment during such period will not have a material ad­
verse effect on the financial condition of its members or
their customers, except that no assessments shall be made
pursuant to such paragraph upon a member which require
payments during any such period which exceed in the ag­
gregate one per centum of such member’s gross revenues
from the securities business for such period, and

Sec. 4

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

10


(C) no assessment shall include any charge based
upon the member’s activities (i) in the distribution of
shares of registered open end investment companies or
unit investment trusts, (ii) in the sale of variable annu­
ities, (iii) in the business of insurance, or (iv) in the busi­
ness of rendering investment advisory services to one or
more registered investment companies or insurance com­
pany separate accounts.
(d) REQUIREMENTS RESPECTING ASSESSMENTS AND LINES OF
CREDIT.—
(1) ASSESSMENTS.—
(A) 1/2 OF 1 PERCENT ASSESSMENT.—Subject to sub­
section (c)(3), SIPC shall impose upon each of its members
an assessment at a rate of not less than one-half of 1 per
centum per annum of the gross revenues from the securi­
ties business of such member—
(i) until the balance of the fund aggregates not
less than $150,000,000 (or such other amount as the
Commission may determine in the public interest),
(ii) during any period when there is outstanding
borrowing by SIPC pursuant to subsection (f) or sub­
section (g) of this section, and
(iii) whenever the balance of the fund (exclusive of
confirmed lines of credit) is below $100,000,000 (or
such other amount as the Commission may determine
in the public interest).
(B) 1/4 OF 1 PERCENT ASSESSMENT.—During any period
during which—
(i) the balance of the fund (exclusive of confirmed
lines of credit) aggregates less than $150,000,000 (or
such other amount as the Commission has determined
under paragraph (2)(B)), or
(ii) SIPC is required under paragraph (2)(B) to
phase out of the fund all confirmed lines of credit,
SIPC shall endeavor to make assessments in such a man­
ner that the aggregate assessments payable by its mem­
bers during such period shall not be less than one-fourth
of 1 per centum per annum of the aggregate gross reve­
nues from the securities business for such members during
such period.
(C) MINIMUM ASSESSMENT.—The minimum assessment
imposed upon each member of SIPC shall be $25 per
annum through the year ending December 31, 1979, and
thereafter shall be the amount from time to time set by
SIPC bylaw, but in no event shall the minimum assess­
ment be greater than 0.02 percent of the gross revenues
from the securities business of such member of SIPC.
(2) LINES OF CREDIT.—
(A) $50,000,000 LIMIT AFTER 1973.—After December 31,
1973, confirmed lines of credit shall not constitute more
than $50,000,000 of the balance of the fund.
(B) PHASEOUT REQUIREMENT.—When the balance of
the fund aggregates $150,000,000 (or such other amount
as the Commission may determine in the public interest)

11

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 4


SIPC shall phase out of the fund all confirmed lines of
credit.
(e) PRIOR TRUSTS; OVERPAYMENTS AND UNDERPAYMENTS.—
(1) PRIOR TRUSTS.—There may be contributed and trans­
ferred at any time to SIPC any funds held by any trust estab­
lished by a self- regulatory organization prior to January 1,
1970, and the amounts so contributed and transferred shall be
applied, as may be determined by SIPC with approval of the
Commission, as a reduction in the amounts payable pursuant
to assessments made or to be made by SIPC upon members of
such self-regulatory organization pursuant to subsection (c)(2).
No such reduction shall be made at any time when there is
outstanding any borrowing by SIPC pursuant to subsection (g)
of this section or any borrowings under confirmed lines of cred­
it.
(2) OVERPAYMENTS.—To the extent that any payment by a
member exceeds the maximum rate permitted by subsection (c)
of this section, the excess shall be recoverable only against fu­
ture payments by such member, except as otherwise provided
by SIPC bylaw.
(3) UNDERPAYMENTS.—If a member fails to pay when due
all or any part of an assessment made upon such member, the
unpaid portion thereof shall bear interest at such rate as may
be determined by SIPC bylaw and, in addition to such interest,
SIPC may impose such penalty charge as may be determined
by SIPC bylaw. Any such penalty charge imposed upon a SIPC
member shall not exceed 25 per centum of any unpaid portion
of the assessment. SIPC may waive such penalty charge in
whole or in part in circumstances where it considers such
waiver appropriate.
(f) BORROWING AUTHORITY.—SIPC shall have the power to bor­
row moneys and to evidence such borrowed moneys by the issuance
of bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness, all upon such
terms and conditions as the Board of Directors may determine in
the case of a borrowing other than pursuant to subsection (g) of
this section, or as may be prescribed by the Commission in the case
of a borrowing pursuant to subsection (g). The interest payable on
a borrowing pursuant to subsection (g) shall be equal to the inter­
est payable on the related notes or other obligations issued by the
Commission to the Secretary of the Treasury. To secure the pay­
ment of the principal of, and interest and premium, if any, on, all
bonds, notes, or other evidences of indebtedness so issued, SIPC
may make agreements with respect to the amount of future assess­
ments to be made upon members and may pledge all or any part
of the assets of SIPC and of the assessments made or to be made
upon members. Any such pledge of future assessments shall (sub­
ject to any prior pledge) be valid and binding from the time that
it is made, and the assessments so pledged and thereafter received
by SIPC, or any collection agent for SIPC, shall immediately be
subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery
thereof or further act, and the lien of such pledge shall be valid and
binding against all parties having claims of any kind against SIPC
or such collection agent whether pursuant to this Act, in tort, con­
tract or otherwise, irrespective of whether such parties have notice

Sec. 4

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

12


thereof. During any period when a borrowing by SIPC pursuant to
subsection (g) of this section is outstanding, no pledge of any as­
sessment upon a member to secure any bonds, notes, or other evi­
dences of indebtedness issued other than pursuant to subsection (g)
of this section shall be effective as to the excess of the payments
under the assessment on such member during any twelve-month
period over one-fourth of 1 per centum of such member’s gross rev­
enues from the securities business for such period. Neither the in­
strument by which a pledge is authorized or created, nor any state­
ment or other document relative thereto, need be filed or recorded
in any State or other jurisdiction. The Commission may by rule or
regulation provide for the filing of any instrument by which a
pledge or borrowing is authorized or created, but the failure to
make or any defect in any such filing shall not affect the validity
of such pledge or borrowing.
(g) SEC LOANS TO SIPC.—In the event that the fund is or may
reasonably appear to be insufficient for the purposes of this Act,
the Commission is authorized to make loans to SIPC. At the time
of application for, and as a condition to, any such loan, SIPC shall
file with the Commission a statement with respect to the antici­
pated use of the proceeds of the loan. If the Commission deter­
mines that such loan is necessary for the protection of customers
of brokers or dealers and the maintenance of confidence in the
United States securities markets and that SIPC has submitted a
plan which provides as reasonable an assurance of prompt repay­
ment as may be feasible under the circumstances, then the Com­
mission shall so certify to the Secretary of the Treasury, and issue
notes or other obligations to the Secretary of the Treasury pursu­
ant to subsection (h). If the Commission determines that the
amount or time for payment of the assessments pursuant to such
plan would not satisfactorily provide for the repayment of such
loan, it may, by rules and regulations, impose upon the purchasers
of equity securities in transactions on national securities exchanges
and in the over-the-counter markets a transaction fee in such
amount as at any time or from time to time it may determine to
be appropriate, but not exceeding one-fiftieth of 1 per centum of the
purchase price of the securities. No such fee shall be imposed on
a transaction (as defined by rules or regulations of the Commis­
sion) of less than $5,000. For the purposes of the next preceding
sentence, (1) the fee shall be based upon the total dollar amount
of each purchase; (2) the fee shall not apply to any purchase on a
national securities exchange or in an over- the-counter market by
or for the account of a broker or dealer registered under section
15(b) of the 1934 Act unless such purchase is for an investment ac­
count of such broker or dealer (and for this purpose any transfer
from a trading account to an investment account shall be deemed
a purchase at fair market value); and (3) the Commission may, by
rule, exempt any transaction in the over-the-counter markets or on
any national securities exchange where necessary to provide for the
assessment of fees on purchasers in transactions in such markets
and exchanges on a comparable basis. Such fee shall be collected
by the broker or dealer effecting the transaction for or with the
purchaser, or by such other person as provided by the Commission
by rule, and shall be paid to SIPC in the same manner as assess­

13

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 4


ments imposed pursuant to subsection (c) but without regard to the
limits on such assessments, or in such other manner as the Com­
mission may by rule provide.
(h) SEC NOTES ISSUED TO TREASURY.—To enable the Commis­
sion to make loans under subsection (g), the Commission is author­
ized to issue to the Secretary of the Treasury notes or other obliga­
tions in an aggregate amount of not to exceed $2,500,000,000, in
such forms and denominations, bearing such maturities, and sub­
ject to such terms and conditions, as may be prescribed by the Sec­
retary of the Treasury. Such notes or other obligations shall bear
interest at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, tak­
ing into consideration the current average market yield on out­
standing marketable obligations of the United States of comparable
maturities during the month preceding the issuance of the notes or
other obligations. The Secretary of the Treasury may reduce the in­
terest rate if he determines such reduction to be in the national in­
terest. The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized and directed to
purchase any notes and other obligations issued hereunder and for
that purpose he is authorized to use as a public debt transaction
the proceeds from the sale of any securities issued under the Sec­
ond Liberty Bond Act, as amended, and the purposes for which se­
curities may be issued under that Act, as amended, are extended
to include any purchase of such notes and obligations. The Sec­
retary of the Treasury may at any time sell any of the notes or
other obligations acquired by him under this subsection. All re­
demptions, purchases, and sales by the Secretary of the Treasury
of such notes or other obligations shall be treated as public debt
transactions of the United States.
(i) CONSOLIDATED GROUP.—Except as otherwise provided by
SIPC bylaw, gross revenues from the securities business of a mem­
ber of SIPC shall be computed on a consolidated basis for such
member and all its subsidiaries (other than the foreign subsidiaries
of such member), and the operations of a member of SIPC shall in­
clude those of any business to which such member has succeeded.
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 4, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat. 1639; Pub. L. 95­
283, Sec. 6, May 21, 1978, 92 Stat. 253; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX,
Secs. 929C, 929V(a), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1852, 1868.)
REFERENCES IN TEXT

The date of enactment of this Act, referred to in text, is
the date of enactment of Pub. L. 91-598, which was approved
Dec. 30, 1970.
The 1934 Act, referred to in text, as meaning the Securi­
ties Exchange Act of 1934, see section 2 of this Act.
The Second Liberty Bond Act, referred to in text, is act
Sept. 24, 1917, ch. 56, 40 Stat. 288, as amended. References to
such Act are treated as references to chapter 31 of U.S. Code
Title 31, Money and Finance. See Pub. L. 97-258, Sec. 4(b),
Sept. 13, 1982, 96 Stat. 1067, the first section of which enacted
Title 31, Money and Finance.

Sec. 4

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

14


AMENDMENTS

2010 — Subsec. (d)(1)(C). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929V(a),
substituted ‘‘0.02 percent of the gross revenues from the securi­
ties business of such member of SIPC’’ for ‘‘$150 per annum’’.
Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929C, substituted
‘‘$2,500,000,000’’ for ‘‘$1,000,000,000’’.
1978 — Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 6(a), in par. (2)
substituted ‘‘Except as otherwise provided in this section, the’’
for ‘‘The’’, in par. (2)(C) inserted provisions for inapplicability
to other lines of credit, and added par. (4).
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 6(b), in par. (2) struck out
‘‘or rule’’ after ‘‘bylaw’’, and in par. (3) struck out reference to
section 3(f) in introductory text and ‘‘or rule’’ after ‘‘bylaw’’ in
subpar. (B).
Subsec. (d)(1)(C). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 6(c), added subpar.
(C).
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 6(d), in par. (2) sub­
stituted ‘‘be recoverable only against future payments by such
member, except as otherwise provided by SIPC bylaw’’ for ‘‘not
be recoverable except against future payments by such member
in accordance with a bylaw or rule of SIPC’’, and in par. (3)
substituted provisions authorizing interest and penalty charges
to be imposed by SIPC bylaw and amount of penalty charge,
for provisions authorizing interest to be imposed by SIPC
bylaw or rule.
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 6(e), struck out ‘‘examining
authority as’’ before ‘‘collection agent for SIPC, shall imme­
diately be subject’’.
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 6(f), redesignated cls. (A)
to (C) as (1) to (3), respectively, and, as so redesignated, in cl.
(2) struck out applicability to a member of a national securities
exchange and in cl. (3) substituted provisions relating to ex­
emptions by rule of transactions in the over-the-counter mar­
ket or on any national securities exchange, for provisions relat­
ing to exemptions by rules and regulations of transactions in
the over-the-counter market, and inserted provisions author­
izing the collection of fees by such other persons as designated
by the Commission by rule for such purpose, and provisions re­
lating to limits on manner of payment of fees.
Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 6(g), substituted ‘‘Consoli­
dated group’’ for ‘‘ ’Gross revenues’ defined’’ in heading, redes­
ignated par. (2) as entire section and, as so redesignated, sub­
stituted provisions relating to computations by a member, for
provisions relating to computations by a broker or dealer. Pars.
(1) and (3), which generally defined term ‘‘gross revenues’’ and
authorized the SIPC to define all other terms used in this sub­
sec., respectively, were struck out.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2010 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 111-203 effective 1 day after July
21, 2010, see section 4 of Pub. L. 111-203.

15

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

SEC. 5. PROTECTION OF CUSTOMERS.
(a) DETERMINATION OF NEED OF PROTECTION.—
(1) NOTICE TO SIPC.—If the Commission or

Sec. 5


any self-regu­
latory organization is aware of facts which lead it to believe
that any broker or dealer subject to its regulation is in or is
approaching financial difficulty, it shall immediately notify
SIPC, and, if such notification is by a self-regulatory organiza­
tion, the Commission.
(2) ACTION BY SELF-REGULATORY ORGANIZATION.—If a selfregulatory organization has given notice to SIPC pursuant to
subsection (a)(1) with respect to a broker or dealer, and such
broker or dealer undertakes to liquidate or reduce its business
either pursuant to the direction of a self-regulatory organiza­
tion or voluntarily, such self-regulatory organization may
render such assistance or oversight to such broker or dealer as
it considers appropriate to protect the interests of customers of
such broker or dealer. The assistance or oversight by a self-reg­
ulatory organization shall not be deemed the assumption or
adoption by such self-regulatory organization of any obligation
or liability to customers, other creditors, shareholders, or part­
ners of the broker or dealer, and shall not prevent or act as
a bar to any action by SIPC.
(3) ACTION BY SIPC.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—SIPC may, upon notice to a member
of SIPC, file an application for a protective decree with any
court of competent jurisdiction specified in section 21(e) or
27 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except that no
such application shall be filed with respect to a member,
the only customers of which are persons whose claims
could not be satisfied by SIPC advances pursuant to sec­
tion 9, if SIPC determines that—
(A) [1] the member (including any person who was a
member within one hundred eighty days prior to such de­
termination) has failed or is in danger of failing to meet
its obligations to customers; and
(B) [2] one or more of the conditions specified in sub­
section (b)(1) exist with respect to such member.
(B) CONSENT REQUIRED.—No member of SIPC that has
a customer may enter into an insolvency, receivership, or
bankruptcy proceeding, under Federal or State law, with­
out the specific consent of SIPC, except as provided in title
II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act.
(4) EFFECT OF OTHER PENDING ACTIONS.—An application
with respect to a member of SIPC filed with a court under
paragraph (3)—
(A) may, with the consent of the Commission, be com­
bined with any action brought by the Commission, includ­
ing an action by the Commission for a temporary receiver
pending an appointment of a trustee under subsection
(b)(3); and

[1]
[2]

So in original. Probably should be ‘‘(i)’’ and indented more.
So in original. Probably should be ‘‘(ii)’’ and indented more.

Sec. 5

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

16


(B) may be filed notwithstanding the pendency in the
same or any other court of any bankruptcy, mortgage fore­
closure, or equity receivership proceeding or any pro­
ceeding to reorganize, conserve, or liquidate such member
or its property, or any proceeding to enforce a lien against
property of such member.
(b) COURT ACTION.—
(1) ISSUANCE OF PROTECTIVE DECREE.—Upon receipt of an
application by SIPC under subsection (a)(3), the court shall
forthwith issue a protective decree if the debtor consents there­
to, if the debtor fails to contest such application, or if the court
finds that such debtor—
(A) is insolvent within the meaning of section 101 of
title 11 of the United States Code, or is unable to meet its
obligations as they mature;
(B) is the subject of a proceeding pending in any court
or before any agency of the United States or any State in
which a receiver, trustee, or liquidator for such debtor has
been appointed;
(C) is not in compliance with applicable requirements
under the 1934 Act or rules of the Commission or any selfregulatory organization with respect to financial responsi­
bility or hypothecation of customers’ securities; or
(D) is unable to make such computations as may be
necessary to establish compliance with such financial re­
sponsibility or hypothecation rules.
Unless the debtor consents to the issuance of a protective de­
cree, the application shall be heard three business days after
the date on which it is filed, or at such other time as the court
shall determine, taking into consideration the urgency which
the circumstances require.
(2) JURISDICTION AND POWERS OF COURT.—
(A) EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION.—Upon the filing of an
application with a court for a protective decree with re­
spect to a debtor, such court—
(i) shall have exclusive jurisdiction of such debtor
and its property wherever located (including property
located outside the territorial limits of such court and
property held by any other person as security for a
debt or subject to a lien);
(ii) shall have exclusive jurisdiction of any suit
against the trustee with respect to a liquidation pro­
ceeding; and
(iii) except as inconsistent with the provisions of
this Act, shall have the jurisdiction, powers, and du­
ties conferred upon a court of the United States hav­
ing jurisdiction over cases under title 11 of the United
States Code, together with such other jurisdiction,
powers, and duties as are prescribed by this Act.
(B) STAY OF PENDING ACTIONS.—Pending the issuance
of a protective decree under paragraph (1), the court with
which an application has been filed—
(i) shall stay any pending bankruptcy, mortgage
foreclosure, equity receivership, or other proceeding to

17

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 5


reorganize, conserve, or liquidate the debtor or its
property and any other suit against any receiver, con­
servator, or trustee of the debtor or its property, and
shall continue such stay upon appointment of a trust­
ee pursuant to paragraph (3);
(ii) may stay any proceeding to enforce a lien
against property of the debtor or any other suit
against the debtor, including a suit by stockholders of
the debtor which interferes with prosecution by the
trustee of claims against former directors, officers, or
employees of the debtor, and may continue such stay
upon appointment of a trustee pursuant to paragraph
(3);
(iii) may stay enforcement of, and upon appoint­
ment of a trustee pursuant to paragraph (3), may con­
tinue the stay for such period of time as may be appro­
priate, but shall not abrogate any right of setoff, ex­
cept to the extent such right may be affected under
section 553 of title 11 of the United States Code, and
shall not abrogate the right to enforce a valid, nonpreferential lien or pledge against the property of the
debtor; and
(iv) may appoint a temporary receiver.
(C) EXCEPTION FROM STAY.—
(i) Notwithstanding section 362 of title 11, United
States Code, neither the filing of an application under
subsection (a)(3) nor any order or decree obtained by
SIPC from the court shall operate as a stay of any con­
tractual rights of a creditor to liquidate, terminate, or
accelerate a securities contract, commodity contract,
forward contract, repurchase agreement, swap agree­
ment, or master netting agreement, as those terms are
defined in sections 101, 741, and 761 of title 11,
United States Code, to offset or net termination val­
ues, payment amounts, or other transfer obligations
arising under or in connection with one or more of
such contracts or agreements, or to foreclose on any
cash collateral pledged by the debtor, whether or not
with respect to one or more of such contracts or agree­
ments.
(ii) Notwithstanding clause (i), such application,
order, or decree may operate as a stay of the fore­
closure on, or disposition of, securities collateral
pledged by the debtor, whether or not with respect to
one or more of such contracts or agreements, securities
sold by the debtor under a repurchase agreement, or
securities lent under a securities lending agreement.
(iii) As used in this subparagraph, the term ‘‘con­
tractual right’’ includes a right set forth in a rule or
bylaw of a derivatives clearing organization (as de­
fined in the Commodity Exchange Act), a multilateral
clearing organization (as defined in the Federal De­
posit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991), a national securities exchange, a national secu­

Sec. 5

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

18


rities association, a securities clearing agency, a con­
tract market designated under the Commodity Ex­
change Act, a derivatives transaction execution facility
registered under the Commodity Exchange Act, or a
board of trade (as defined in the Commodity Exchange
Act), or in a resolution of the governing board thereof,
and a right, whether or not in writing, arising under
common law, under law merchant, or by reason of nor­
mal business practice.
(3) APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEE AND ATTORNEY.—If the court
issues a protective decree under paragraph (1), such court shall
forthwith appoint, as trustee for the liquidation of the business
of the debtor and as attorney for the trustee, such persons as
SIPC, in its sole discretion, specifies. The persons appointed as
trustee and as attorney for the trustee may be associated with
the same firm. SIPC may, in its sole discretion, specify itself
or one of its employees as trustee in any case in which SIPC
has determined that the liabilities of the debtor to unsecured
general creditors and to subordinated lenders appear to aggre­
gate less than $750,000 and that there appear to be fewer than
five hundred customers of such debtor. No person may be ap­
pointed to serve as trustee or attorney for the trustee if such
person is not disinterested within the meaning of paragraph
(6), except that for any specified purpose other than to rep­
resent a trustee in conducting a liquidation proceeding, the
trustee may, with the approval of SIPC and the court, employ
an attorney who is not disinterested. A trustee appointed
under this paragraph shall qualify by filing a bond in the man­
ner prescribed by section 322 of title 11 of the United States
Code, except that neither SIPC nor any employee of SIPC shall
be required to file a bond when appointed as trustee.
(4) REMOVAL TO BANKRUPTCY COURT.—Upon the issuance
of a protective decree and appointment of a trustee, or a trust­
ee and counsel, under this section, the court shall forthwith
order the removal of the entire liquidation proceeding to the
court of the United States in the same judicial district having
jurisdiction over cases under title 11 of the United States Code.
The latter court shall thereupon have all of the jurisdiction,
powers, and duties conferred by this Act upon the court to
which application for the issuance of the protective decree was
made.
(5) COMPENSATION FOR SERVICES AND REIMBURSEMENT OF
EXPENSES.—
(A) ALLOWANCES IN GENERAL.—The court shall grant
reasonable compensation for services rendered and reim­
bursement for proper costs and expenses incurred (herein­
after in this paragraph referred to as ‘‘allowances’’) by a
trustee, and by the attorney for such a trustee, in connec­
tion with a liquidation proceeding. No allowances (other
than reimbursement for proper costs and expenses in­
curred) shall be granted to SIPC or any employee of SIPC
for serving as trustee. Allowances may be granted on an
interim basis during the course of the liquidation pro­

19

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 5


ceeding at such times and in such amounts as the court
considers appropriate.
(B) APPLICATION FOR ALLOWANCES.—Any person seek­
ing allowances shall file with the court an application
which complies in form and content with the provisions of
title 11 of the United States Code governing applications
for allowances under such title. A copy of such application
shall be served upon SIPC when filed. The court shall fix
a time for a hearing on such application, and notice of
such hearing shall be given to the applicant, the trustee,
the debtor, the creditors, SIPC, and such other persons as
the court may designate, except that notice need not be
given to customers whose claims have been or will be sat­
isfied in full or to creditors who cannot reasonably be ex­
pected to receive any distribution during the course of the
liquidation proceeding.
(C) RECOMMENDATIONS OF SIPC AND AWARDING OF AL­
LOWANCES.— Whenever an application for allowances is
filed pursuant to subparagraph (B), SIPC shall file its rec­
ommendation with respect to such allowances with the
court prior to the hearing on such application and shall, if
it so requests, be allowed a reasonable time after such
hearing within which to file a further recommendation. In
any case in which such allowances are to be paid by SIPC
without reasonable expectation of recoupment thereof as
provided in this Act and there is no difference between the
amounts requested and the amounts recommended by
SIPC, the court shall award the amounts recommended by
SIPC. In determining the amount of allowances in all
other cases, the court shall give due consideration to the
nature, extent, and value of the services rendered, and
shall place considerable reliance on the recommendation of
SIPC.
(D) APPLICABLE RESTRICTIONS.—The restrictions on
sharing of compensation set forth in section 504 of title 11
of the United States Code shall apply to allowances.
(E) CHARGE AGAINST ESTATE.—Allowances granted by
the court, including interim allowances, shall be charged
against the general estate of the debtor as a cost and ex­
pense of administration. If the general estate is insuffi­
cient to pay allowances in whole or in part, SIPC shall ad­
vance such funds as are necessary for such payment.
(6) DISINTERESTEDNESS.—
(A) STANDARDS.—For purposes of paragraph (3), a per­
son shall not be deemed disinterested if—
(i) such person is a creditor (including a cus­
tomer), stockholder, or partner of the debtor;
(ii) such person is or was an underwriter of any of
the outstanding securities of the debtor or within five
years prior to the filing date was the underwriter of
any securities of the debtor;
(iii) such person is, or was within two years prior
to the filing date, a director, partner, officer, or em­

Sec. 5

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

20


ployee of the debtor or such an underwriter, or an at­
torney for the debtor or such an underwriter; or
(iv) it appears that such person has, by reason of
any other direct or indirect relationship to, connection
with, or interest in the debtor or such an underwriter,
or for any other reason, an interest materially adverse
to the interests of any class of creditors (including cus­
tomers) or stockholders.
except that SIPC shall in all cases be deemed disin­
terested, and an employee of SIPC shall be deemed disin­
terested if such employee would, except for his association
with SIPC, meet the standards set forth in this subpara­
graph.
(B) HEARING.—The court shall fix a time for a hearing
on disinterestedness, to be held promptly after the ap­
pointment of a trustee. Notice of such hearing shall be
mailed at least ten days prior thereto to each person who,
from the books and records of the debtor appears to have
been a customer of the debtor with an open account within
the past twelve months, to the address of such person as
it appears from the books and records of the debtor, and
to the creditors and stockholders of the debtor, to SIPC,
and to such other persons as the court may designate. The
court may, in its discretion, also require that notice be
given by publication in such newspaper or newspapers of
general circulation as it may designate. At such hearing,
at any adjournment thereof, or upon application, the court
shall hear objections to the retention in office of a trustee
or attorney for a trustee on the grounds that such person
is not disinterested.
(c) SEC PARTICIPATION IN PROCEEDINGS.—The Commission
may, on its own motion, file notice of its appearance in any pro­
ceeding under this Act and may thereafter participate as a party.
(d) SIPC PARTICIPATION.—SIPC shall be deemed to be a party
in interest as to all matters arising in a liquidation proceeding,
with the right to be heard on all such matters, and shall be deemed
to have intervened with respect to all such matters with the same
force and effect as if a petition for such purpose had been allowed
by the court.
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 5, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat. 1644; Pub. L. 95­
283, Sec. 7, May 21, 1978, 92 Stat. 254; Pub. L. 95-598, title III,
Sec. 308(a)-(f), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2674; Pub. L. 109-8, title IX,
Sec. 911, Apr. 20, 2005, 119 Stat. 185; Pub. L. 109-390, Sec. 5(c),
Dec. 12, 2006, 120 Stat. 2698; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec.
929H(b), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1857.)
REFERENCES IN TEXT

The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, referred to in text,
is act June 6, 1934, ch. 404, 48 Stat. 881, as amended, which
is classified generally to chapter 2B (Sec. 78a et seq.) of U.S.
Code Title 15, Commerce and Trade.

21

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 5


The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement
Act of 1991, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 102-242, Dec. 19,
1991, 105 Stat. 2236, as amended.
The Commodity Exchange Act, referred to in text, is act
Sept. 21, 1922, ch. 369, 42 Stat. 998, as amended, which is
classified generally to chapter 1 (Sec. 1 et seq.) of U.S. Code
Title 7, Agriculture.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Pro­
tection Act, referred to in text, is Pub. L. 111-203, July 21,
2010, 124 Stat. 1376.
AMENDMENTS

2010 — Subsec. (a)(3). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929H(b)(5),
added subpar. (B) at the end.
Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929H(b)(4), added subpar. (A) des­
ignation and heading after paragraph heading, and substituted
‘‘SIPC may, upon notice to a member of SIPC, file an applica­
tion for a protective decree with any court of competent juris­
diction specified in section 21(e) or 27 of the Securities Ex­
change Act of 1934, except that no such application shall be
filed with respect to a member, the only customers of which
are persons whose claims could not be satisfied by SIPC ad­
vances pursuant to section 9, if SIPC’’ for ‘‘If SIPC’’.
Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929H(b)(1), struck out concluding
provision.
Subsec. (a)(3)(A). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929H(b)(2), sub­
stituted ‘‘the member’’ for ‘‘any member of SIPC’’.
Subsec. (a)(3)(B). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929H(b)(3), sub­
stituted a period for a comma.
2006 — Subsec. (b)(2)(C)(iii). Pub. L. 109-390 inserted ‘‘a
derivatives clearing organization (as defined in the Commodity
Exchange Act), a multilateral clearing organization (as defined
in the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement
Act of 1991),’’ after ‘‘rule or bylaw of’’ and substituted ‘‘a securi­
ties clearing agency, a contract market designated under the
Commodity Exchange Act, a derivatives transaction execution
facility registered under the Commodity Exchange Act, or a
board of trade (as defined in the Commodity Exchange Act),’’
for ‘‘or a securities clearance agency, a right set forth in a
bylaw of a clearing organization or contract market’’.
2005 — Subsec. (b)(2)(C). Pub. L. 109-8 added subpar. (C).
1978 — Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 7(a), added par.
(2), redesignated former par. (2) as (3) and, as so redesignated,
revised format of provisions by setting out cls. (A) and (B) and
inserted provisions relating to any person who was a member
within 180 days prior to such determination and provisions re­
lating to claims filed under section 9, and redesignated former
par. (3) as (4) and, as so redesignated, substituted ‘‘with re­
spect to a member of SIPC filed with a court under paragraph
(3)’’ for ‘‘under paragraph (2)’’ in introductory text and inserted
‘‘may,’’ before ‘‘with the’’ in cl. (A).
Subsec. (b)(1)(A). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(a)(1), sub­
stituted reference to section 101 of title 11 of the United States
Code for reference to the Bankruptcy Act.

Sec. 5

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

22


Subsec. (b)(1)(B) to (E). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(a)(2), (3),
redesignated subpars. (C) to (E) as subpars. (B) to (D), respec­
tively. Former subpar. (B), which provided for issuance of pro­
tective decree where court found that debtor had committed act
of bankruptcy within meaning of Bankruptcy Act, was struck
out.
Subsec. (b)(2)(A)(iii). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(b), changed
references.
Subsec. (b)(2)(B)(iii). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(c), sub­
stituted ‘‘any right of setoff, except to the extent such right
may be affected under section 553 of title 11 of the United
States Code, and shall not abrogate’’ for ‘‘the right of setoff pro­
vided in section 68 of the Bankruptcy Act’’.
Subsec. (b)(3). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(d), changed ref­
erences.
Subsec. (b)(4). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(e), substituted pro­
visions relating to removal of proceeding to Bankruptcy Court
for provisions relating to reference of proceeding to referee in
bankruptcy.
Subsec. (b)(5)(B). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(f)(1), (2), (5), re­
designated subpar. (C) as (B) and changed references. Former
subpar. (B), which covered allowances to a referee in bank­
ruptcy or special master, was struck out.
Subsec. (b)(5)(C). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(f)(2), (3), (5), re­
designated subpar. (D) as (C) and substituted ‘‘subparagraph
(B)’’ for ‘‘subparagraph (C)’’. Former subpar. (C) redesignated
(B).
Subsec. (b)(5)(D). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(f)(2), (4), (5), re­
designated subpar. (E) as (D) and changed references. Former
subpar. (D) redesignated (C).
Subsec. (b)(5)(E), (F). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(f)(5), redes­
ignated subpar. (F) as (E). Former subpar. (E) redesignated
(D).
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 7(b), amended subsec. (b)
generally.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 7(c), added subsec. (d).
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2010 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 111-203 effective 1 day after July
21, 2010, see section 4 of Pub. L. 111-203.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2006 AMENDMENTS

Amendments by Pub. L. 109-390 inapplicable to any cases
commenced under U.S. Code Title 11, Bankruptcy, or appoint­
ments made under any Federal or State law before Dec. 12,
2006, see section 7 of Pub. L. 109-390.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2005 AMENDMENT

Amendments by Pub. L. 109-8 effective 180 days after Apr.
20, 2005, but inapplicable with respect to cases commenced
under U.S. Title 11, Bankruptcy, before such date, except as
otherwise provided, see section 1501 of Pub. L. 109-8.

23

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 6


EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1978 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 95-598 effective Oct. 1, 1979, see
section 402(a) of Pub. L. 95-598.
SEC. 6. GENERAL PROVISIONS OF A LIQUIDATION PROCEEDING.
(a) PURPOSES.—The purposes of a liquidation proceeding under

this Act shall be—
(1) as promptly as possible after the appointment of a
trustee in such liquidation proceeding, and in accordance with
the provisions of this Act—
(A) to deliver customer name securities to or on behalf
of the customers of the debtor entitled thereto as provided
in section 8(c)(2); and
(B) to distribute customer property and (in advance
thereof or concurrently therewith) otherwise satisfy net eq­
uity claims of customers to the extent provided in this sec­
tion;
(2) to sell or transfer offices and other productive units of
the business of the debtor;
(3) to enforce rights of subrogation as provided in this Act;
(4) to liquidate the business of the debtor.
(b) APPLICATION OF TITLE 11 OF THE UNITED STATES
CODE.— To the extent consistent with the provisions of this
Act, a liquidation proceeding shall be conducted in accordance
with, and as though it were being conducted under chapters 1,
3, and 5 and subchapters I and II of chapter 7 of title 11 of
the United States Code. For the purposes of applying such title
in carrying out this section, a reference in such title to the date
of the filing of the petition shall be deemed to be a reference
to the filing date under this Act.
(c) DETERMINATION OF CUSTOMER STATUS.—In a liquidation
proceeding under this Act, whenever a person has acted with re­
spect to cash or securities with the debtor after the filing date and
in a manner which would have given him the status of a customer
with respect to such cash or securities had the action occurred
prior to the filing date, and the trustee is satisfied that such action
was taken by the customer in good faith and prior to the appoint­
ment of the trustee, the date on which such action was taken shall
be deemed to be the filing date for purposes of determining the net
equity of such customer with respect to such cash or securities.
(d) APPORTIONMENT.—In a liquidation proceeding under this
Act, any cash or securities remaining after the liquidation of a lien
or pledge made by a debtor shall be apportioned between his gen­
eral estate and customer property in the proportion in which the
general property of the debtor and the cash and securities of the
customers of such debtor contributed to such lien or pledge. Securi­
ties apportioned to the general estate under this subsection shall
be subject to the provisions of section 16(5)(A).
(e) COSTS AND EXPENSES OF ADMINISTRATION.—All costs and
expenses of administration of the estate of the debtor and of the
liquidation proceeding shall be borne by the general estate of the
debtor to the extent it is sufficient therefor, and the priorities of
distribution from the general estate shall be as provided in section

Sec. 6

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

24


726 of title 11 of the United States Code. Costs and expenses of ad­
ministration shall include payments pursuant to section 8(e) and
section 9(c)(1) (to the extent such payments recovered securities
which were apportioned to the general estate pursuant to sub­
section (d)) and costs and expenses of SIPC employees utilized by
the trustee pursuant to section 7(a)(2). All funds advanced by SIPC
to a trustee for such costs and expenses of administration shall be
recouped from the general estate under section 507(a)(2) of title 11
of the United States Code.
and
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 6, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat. 1646; Pub. L. 95­
283, Sec. 8, May 21, 1978, 92 Stat. 259; Pub. L. 95-598, title III,
Sec. 308(g), (h), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2675; Pub. L. 109-8, title XV,
Sec. 1502(b), Apr. 20, 2005, 119 Stat. 217.)
AMENDMENTS

2005 — Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 109-8 substituted ‘‘507(a)(2)’’
for ‘‘507(a)(1)’’.
1978 — Pub. L. 95-283 substituted ‘‘General provisions of
a liquidation proceeding’’ for ‘‘Liquidation proceedings’’ in sec­
tion catchline.
Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95-283 amended subsec. (a) generally.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(g), amended subsec.
(b) generally.
Pub. L. 95-283 in heading substituted ‘‘Application of
Bankruptcy Act’’ for ‘‘Powers and Duties of Trustee’’, and in
text substituted provisions relating to applicability of Bank­
ruptcy Act to liquidation proceedings, for provisions relating to
the powers and duties of trustees.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 95-283 in heading substituted ‘‘Deter­
mination of customer status’’ for ‘‘Application of Bankruptcy
Act’’, and in text substituted provisions relating to determina­
tion of status of a customer with respect to cash or securities,
for provisions setting forth general and special provisions of
the Bankruptcy Act applicable to liquidation proceedings, and
defining terms for purposes of such applicability and the provi­
sions of this section.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 95-283 in heading substituted ‘‘Appor­
tionment’’ for ‘‘Completion of open contractual commitments’’,
and in text substituted provisions relating to apportionment of
cash or securities remaining after the liquidation of a lien or
pledge made by a debtor, for provisions relating to completion
by the trustee of open contractual commitments, which were
made in the ordinary course of the debtor’s business and which
were outstanding on the filing date.
Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(h), changed ref­
erences.
Pub. L. 95-283 in heading substituted ‘‘Costs and expense
of administration’’ for ‘‘Notice’’, and in text substituted provi­
sions relating to costs and expenses of administration of the es­
tate of the debtor and of the liquidation proceeding, for provi­
sions relating to notice requirements for the trustee subse­
quent to appointment as trustee.

25

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 7


Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 95-283 struck out subsec. (f) requiring
advances by the SIPC to the trustee for customers’ claims and
completion of open contractual commitments, and authorizing
discretionary advances to the trustee for compensation of per­
sonnel deemed necessary for the liquidation proceeding.
Subsec. (g). Pub. L. 95-283 struck out subsec. (g) setting
forth provisions relating to payments to customers by the
trustee, and provisions respecting the quantum of proof of
claim required for such payment.
Subsec. (h). Pub. L. 95-283 struck out subsec. (h) relating
to nonapplicability of provisions to proof of claim by associates
and others connected in some way with the debtor.
Subsec. (i). Pub. L. 95-283 struck out subsec. (i) setting
forth provisions relating to reports by the trustee to the court.
Subsec. (j). Pub. L. 95-283 struck out subsec. (j) which re­
lated to nonapplicability of provisions to rights of persons to es­
tablish by formal proof such claims as they may have to pay­
ment or delivery of specific securities.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2005 AMENDMENT

Amendments by Pub. L. 109-8 effective 180 days after Apr.
20, 2005, but inapplicable with respect to cases commenced
under U.S. Code Title 11, Bankruptcy, before such date, except
as otherwise provided, see section 1501 of Pub. L. 109-8.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1978 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 95-598 effective Oct. 1, 1979, see
section 402(a) of Pub. L. 95-598.
SEC. 7. POWERS AND DUTIES OF A TRUSTEE.
(a) TRUSTEE POWERS.—A trustee shall be

vested with the same
powers and title with respect to the debtor and the property of the
debtor, including the same rights to avoid preferences, as a trustee
in a case under title 11 of the United States Code. In addition, a
trustee may, with the approval of SIPC but without any need for
court approval—
(1) hire and fix the compensation of all personnel (includ­
ing officers and employees of the debtor and of its examining
authority) and other persons (including accountants) that are
deemed by the trustee necessary for all or any purposes of the
liquidation proceeding;
(2) utilize SIPC employees for all or any purposes of a liq­
uidation proceeding; and
(3) margin and maintain customer accounts of the debtor
for the purposes of section 8(f).
(b) TRUSTEE DUTIES.—To the extent consistent with the provi­
sions of this Act or as otherwise ordered by the court, a trustee
shall be subject to the same duties as a trustee in a case under
chapter 7 of title 11 of the United States Code, including, if the
debtor is a commodity broker, as defined under section 101 of such
title, the duties specified in subchapter IV of such chapter 7, except
that a trustee may, but shall have no duty to, reduce to money any

Sec. 7

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

26


securities constituting customer property or in the general estate
of the debtor. In addition, the trustee shall—
(1) deliver securities to or on behalf of customers to the
maximum extent practicable in satisfaction of customer claims
for securities of the same class and series of an issuer; and
(2) subject to the prior approval of SIPC but without any
need for court approval, pay or guarantee all or any part of the
indebtedness of the debtor to a bank, lender, or other person
if the trustee determines that the aggregate market value of
securities to be made available to the trustee upon the pay­
ment or guarantee of such indebtedness does not appear to be
less than the total amount of such payment or guarantee.
(c) REPORTS BY TRUSTEE TO COURT.—The trustee shall make to
the court and to SIPC such written reports as may be required of
a trustee in a case under chapter 7 of title 11 of the United States
Code, and shall include in such reports information with respect to
the progress made in distributing cash and securities to customers.
Such reports shall be in such form and detail as the Commission
determines by rule to present fairly the results of the liquidation
proceeding as of the date of or for the period covered by such re­
ports, having due regard for the requirements of section 17 of the
1934 Act and the rules prescribed under such section and the mag­
nitude of items and transactions involved in connection with the
operations of a broker or dealer.
(d) INVESTIGATIONS.—The trustee shall—
(1) as soon as practicable, investigate the acts, conduct,
property, liabilities, and financial condition of the debtor, the
operation of its business, and any other matter, to the extent
relevant to the liquidation proceeding, and report thereon to
the court;
(2) examine, by deposition or otherwise, the directors and
officers of the debtor and any other witnesses concerning any
of the matters referred to in paragraph (1);
(3) report to the court any facts ascertained by the trustee
with respect to fraud, misconduct, mismanagement, and irreg­
ularities, and to any causes of action available to the estate;
and
(4) as soon as practicable, prepare and submit, to SIPC
and such other persons as the court designates and in such
form and manner as the court directs, a statement of his inves­
tigation of matters referred to in paragraph (1).
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 7, as added Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 9, May 21,
1978, 92 Stat. 260; amended Pub. L. 95-598, title III, Sec. 308(i)­
(k), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2675.)
REFERENCES IN TEXT

The 1934 Act, referred to in text, as meaning the Securi­
ties Exchange Act of 1934, see section 2 of this Act.
PRIOR PROVISIONS

11.

A prior section 7 of Pub. L. 91-598 was renumbered section

27

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 8


AMENDMENTS

1978 — Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(i), changed
references.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(j), changed references.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(k), changed ref­
erences.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1978 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 95-598 effective Oct. 1, 1979, see
section 402(a) of Pub. L. 95-598.
SEC. 8. SPECIAL PROVISIONS OF A LIQUIDATION PROCEEDING.
(a) NOTICE AND CLAIMS.—
(1) NOTICE OF PROCEEDINGS.—Promptly after the appoint­

ment of the trustee, such trustee shall cause notice of the com­
mencement of proceedings under this section to be published in
one or more newspapers of general circulation in the form and
manner determined by the court, and at the same time shall
cause a copy of such notice to be mailed to each person who,
from the books and records of the debtor, appears to have been
a customer of the debtor with an open account within the past
twelve months, to the address of such person as it appears
from the books and records of the debtor. Notice to creditors
other than customers shall be given in the manner prescribed
by title 11 of the United States Code, except that such notice
shall be given by the trustee.
(2) STATEMENT OF CLAIM.—A customer shall file with the
trustee a written statement of claim but need not file a formal
proof of claim, except that no obligation of the debtor to any
person associated with the debtor within the meaning of sec­
tion 3(a)(18) or section 3(a)(21) of the 1934 Act, any beneficial
owner of 5 per centum or more of the voting stock of the debt­
or, or any member of the immediate family of any such person
or owner may be satisfied without formal proof of claim.
(3) TIME LIMITATIONS.—No claim of a customer or other
creditor of the debtor which is received by the trustee after the
expiration of the six-month period beginning on the date of
publication of notice under paragraph (1) shall be allowed, ex­
cept that the court may, upon application within such period
and for cause shown, grant a reasonable, fixed extension of
time for the filing of a claim by the United States, by a State
or political subdivision thereof, or by an infant or incompetent
person without a guardian. Any claim of a customer for net eq­
uity which is received by the trustee after the expiration of
such period of time as may be fixed by the court (not exceeding
sixty days after the date of publication of notice under para­
graph (1)) need not be paid or satisfied in whole or in part out
of customer property, and, to the extent such claim is satisfied
from moneys advanced by SIPC, it shall be satisfied in cash or
securities (or both) as the trustee determines is most economi­
cal to the estate.
(4) EFFECT ON CLAIMS.—Except as otherwise provided in
this section, and without limiting the powers and duties of the

Sec. 8

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

28


trustee to discharge obligations promptly as specified in this
section, nothing in this section shall limit the right of any per­
son, including any subrogee, to establish by formal proof or
otherwise as the court may provide such claims as such person
may have against the debtor, including claims for the payment
of money and the delivery of specific securities, without resort
to moneys advanced by SIPC to the trustee.
(b) PAYMENTS TO CUSTOMERS.—After receipt of a written state­
ment of claim pursuant to subsection (a)(2), the trustee shall
promptly discharge, in accordance with the provisions of this sec­
tion, all obligations of the debtor to a customer relating to, or net
equity claims based upon, securities or cash, by the delivery of se­
curities or the making of payments to or for the account of such
customer (subject to the provisions of subsection (d) and section
9(a)) insofar as such obligations are ascertainable from the books
and records of the debtor or are otherwise established to the satis­
faction of the trustee. For purposes of distributing securities to cus­
tomers, all securities shall be valued as of the close of business on
the filing date. For purposes of this subsection, the court shall,
among other things—
(1) with respect to net equity claims, authorize the trustee
to satisfy claims out of moneys made available to the trustee
by SIPC notwithstanding the fact that there has not been any
showing or determination that there are sufficient funds of the
debtor available to satisfy such claims; and
(2) with respect to claims relating to, or net equities based
upon, securities of a class and series of an issuer which are as­
certainable from the books and records of the debtor or are oth­
erwise established to the satisfaction of the trustee, authorize
the trustee to deliver securities of such class and series if and
to the extent available to satisfy such claims in whole or in
part, with partial deliveries to be made pro rata to the greatest
extent considered practicable by the trustee.
Any payment or delivery of property pursuant to this subsection
may be conditioned upon the trustee requiring claimants to exe­
cute, in a form to be determined by the trustee, appropriate re­
ceipts, supporting affidavits, releases, and assignments, but shall
be without prejudice to any right of a claimant to file formal proof
of claim within the period specified in subsection (a)(3) for any bal­
ance of securities or cash to which such claimant considers himself
entitled.
(c) CUSTOMER RELATED PROPERTY.—
(1) ALLOCATION OF CUSTOMER PROPERTY.—The trustee
shall allocate customer property of the debtor as follows:
(A) first, to SIPC in repayment of advances made by
SIPC pursuant to section 9(c)(1), to the extent such ad­
vances recovered securities which were apportioned to cus­
tomer property pursuant to section 6(d);
(B) second, to customers of such debtor, who shall
share ratably in such customer property on the basis and
to the extent of their respective net equities;
(C) third, to SIPC as subrogee for the claims of cus­
tomers;

29

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 8


(D) fourth, to SIPC in repayment of advances made by
SIPC pursuant to section 9(c)(2).
Any customer property remaining after allocation in accord­
ance with this paragraph shall become part of the general es­
tate of the debtor. To the extent customer property and SIPC
advances pursuant to section 9(a) are not sufficient to pay or
otherwise satisfy in full the net equity claims of customers,
such customers shall be entitled, to the extent only of their re­
spective unsatisfied net equities, to participate in the general
estate as unsecured creditors. For purposes of allocating cus­
tomer property under this paragraph, securities to be delivered
in payment of net equity claims for securities of the same class
and series of an issuer shall be valued as of the close of busi­
ness on the filing date.
(2) DELIVERY OF CUSTOMER NAME SECURITIES.—The trustee
shall deliver customer name securities to or on behalf of a cus­
tomer of the debtor entitled thereto if the customer is not in­
debted to the debtor. If the customer is so indebted, such cus­
tomer may, with the approval of the trustee, reclaim customer
name securities upon payment to the trustee, within such pe­
riod of time as the trustee determines, of all indebtedness of
such customer to the debtor.
(3) RECOVERY OF TRANSFERS.—Whenever customer prop­
erty is not sufficient to pay in full the claims set forth in sub­
paragraphs (A) through (D) of paragraph (1), the trustee may
recover any property transferred by the debtor which, except
for such transfer, would have been customer property if and to
the extent that such transfer is voidable or void under the pro­
visions of title 11 of the United States Code. Such recovered
property shall be treated as customer property. For purposes
of such recovery, the property so transferred shall be deemed
to have been the property of the debtor and, if such transfer
was made to a customer or for his benefit, such customer shall
be deemed to have been a creditor, the laws of any State to the
contrary notwithstanding.
(d) PURCHASE OF SECURITIES.—The trustee shall, to the extent
that securities can be purchased in a fair and orderly market, pur­
chase securities as necessary for the delivery of securities to cus­
tomers in satisfaction of their claims for net equities based on secu­
rities under section 7(b)(1) and for the transfer of customer ac­
counts under subsection (f), in order to restore the accounts of such
customers as of the filing date. To the extent consistent with sub­
section (c), customer property and moneys advanced by SIPC may
be used by the trustee to pay for securities so purchased. Moneys
advanced by SIPC for each account of a separate customer may not
be used to purchase securities to the extent that the aggregate
value of such securities on the filing date exceeded the amount per­
mitted to be advanced by SIPC under the provisions of section 9(a).
(e) CLOSEOUTS.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Any contract of the debtor for the pur­
chase or sale of securities in the ordinary course of its business
with other brokers or dealers which is wholly executory on the
filing date shall not be completed by the trustee, except to the
extent permitted by SIPC rule. Upon the adoption by SIPC of

Sec. 8

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

30


rules with respect to the closeout of such a contract but prior
to the adoption of rules with respect to the completion of such
a contract, the other broker or dealer shall close out such con­
tract, without unnecessary delay, in the best available market
and pursuant to such SIPC rules. Until such time as SIPC
adopts rules with respect to the completion or closeout of such
a contract, such a contract shall be closed out in accordance
with Commission Rule S6(d)-1 as in effect on the date of enact­
ment of this section, or any comparable rule of the Commission
subsequently adopted, to the extent not inconsistent with the
provisions of this subsection.
(2) NET PROFIT OR LOSS.—A broker or dealer shall net all
profits and losses on all contracts closed out under this sub­
section and—
(A) if such broker or dealer shows a net profit on such
contracts, he shall pay such net profit to the trustee; and
(B) if such broker or dealer sustains a net loss on such
contracts, he shall be entitled to file a claim against the
debtor with the trustee in the amount of such net loss.
To the extent that a net loss sustained by a broker or dealer
arises from contracts pursuant to which such broker or dealer
was acting for its own customer, such broker or dealer shall be
entitled to receive funds advanced by SIPC to the trustee in
the amount of such loss, except that such broker or dealer may
not receive more than $40,000 for each separate customer with
respect to whom it sustained a loss. With respect to a net loss
which is not payable under the preceding sentence from funds
advanced by SIPC, the broker or dealer shall be entitled to
participate in the general estate as an unsecured creditor.
(3) REGISTERED CLEARING AGENCIES.—Neither a registered
clearing agency which by its rules has an established proce­
dure for the closeout of open contracts between an insolvent
broker or dealer and its participants, nor its participants to the
extent such participants’ claims are or may be processed with­
in the registered clearing agency, shall be entitled to receive
SIPC funds in payment of any losses on such contracts, except
as SIPC may otherwise provide by rule. If such registered
clearing agency or its participants sustain a net loss on the
closeout of such contracts with the debtor, they shall have the
right to participate in the general estate as unsecured creditors
to the extent of such loss. Any funds or other property owed
to the debtor, after the closeout of such contracts, shall be
promptly paid to the trustee. Rules adopted by SIPC under
this paragraph shall provide that in no case may a registered
clearing agency or its participants, to the extent such partici­
pants’ claims are or may be processed within the registered
clearing agency, be entitled to receive funds advanced by SIPC
in an amount greater, in the aggregate, than could be received
by the participants if such participants proceeded individually
under paragraphs (1) and (2).
(4) DEFINITION.—For purposes of this subsection, the term
‘‘customer’’ does not include any person who—
(A) is a broker or dealer;

31

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 8


(B) had a claim for cash or securities which by con­
tract, agreement, or understanding, or by operation of law,
was part of the capital of the claiming broker or dealer or
was subordinated to the claims of any or all creditors of
such broker or dealer; or
(C) had a relationship of the kind specified in section
9(a)(5) with the debtor.
A claiming broker or dealer shall be deemed to have been act­
ing on behalf of its customer if it acted as agent for such cus­
tomer or if it held such customer’s order which was to be exe­
cuted as a part of its contract with the debtor.
(f) TRANSFER OF CUSTOMER ACCOUNTS.—In order to facilitate
the prompt satisfaction of customer claims and the orderly liquida­
tion of the debtor, the trustee may, pursuant to terms satisfactory
to him and subject to the prior approval of SIPC, sell or otherwise
transfer to another member of SIPC, without consent of any cus­
tomer, all or any part of the account of a customer of the debtor.
In connection with any such sale or transfer to another member of
SIPC and subject to the prior approval of SIPC, the trustee may—
(1) waive or modify the need to file a written statement of
claim pursuant to subsection (a)(2); and
(2) enter into such agreements as the trustee considers ap­
propriate under the circumstances to indemnify any such mem­
ber of SIPC against shortages of cash or securities in the cus­
tomer accounts sold or transferred.
The funds of SIPC may be made available to guarantee or secure
any indemnification under paragraph (2). The prior approval of
SIPC to such indemnification shall be conditioned, among such
other standards as SIPC may determine, upon a determination by
SIPC that the probable cost of any such indemnification can rea­
sonably be expected not to exceed the cost to SIPC of proceeding
under section 9(a) and section 9(b).
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 8, as added Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 9, May 21,
1978, 92 Stat. 261; amended Pub. L. 95-598, title III, Sec. 308(l),
(m), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2675.)
REFERENCES IN TEXT

The 1934 Act, referred to in text, as meaning the Securi­
ties Exchange Act of 1934, see section 2 of this Act.
The date of enactment of this section, referred to in text,
is the date of enactment of Pub. L. 95-283, which was approved
May 21, 1978.
PRIOR PROVISIONS

A prior section 8 of Pub. L. 91-598 was renumbered section
12.
AMENDMENTS

1978 — Subsecs. (a)(1), (c)(3). Pub. L. 95-598 changed ref­
erences

Sec. 9

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

32


EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1978 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 95-598 effective Oct. 1, 1979, see
section 402(a) of Pub. L. 95-598.
SEC. 9. SIPC ADVANCES.
(a) ADVANCES FOR CUSTOMERS’

CLAIMS.—In order to provide
for prompt payment and satisfaction of net equity claims of cus­
tomers of the debtor, SIPC shall advance to the trustee such mon­
eys, not to exceed $500,000 for each customer, as may be required
to pay or otherwise satisfy claims for the amount by which the net
equity of each customer exceeds his ratable share of customer prop­
erty, except that—
(1) if all or any portion of the net equity claim of a cus­
tomer in excess of his ratable share of customer property is a
claim for cash, as distinct from a claim for securities or options
on commodity futures contracts, the amount advanced to sat­
isfy such claim for cash shall not exceed the standard max­
imum cash advance amount for each such customer, as deter­
mined in accordance with subsection (d);
(2) a customer who holds accounts with the debtor in sepa­
rate capacities shall be deemed to be a different customer in
each capacity;
(3) if all or any portion of the net equity claim of a cus­
tomer in excess of his ratable share of customer property is
satisfied by the delivery of securities purchased by the trustee
pursuant to section 8(d), the securities so purchased shall be
valued as of the filing date for purposes of applying the dollar
limitations of this subsection;
(4) no advance shall be made by SIPC to the trustee to pay
or otherwise satisfy, directly or indirectly, any net equity claim
of a customer who is a general partner, officer, or director of
the debtor, a beneficial owner of five per centum or more of
any class of equity security of the debtor (other than a nonconvertible stock having fixed preferential dividend and liq­
uidation rights), a limited partner with a participation of five
per centum or more in the net assets or net profits of the debt­
or, or a person who, directly or indirectly and through agree­
ment or otherwise, exercised or had the power to exercise a
controlling influence over the management or policies of the
debtor; and
(5) no advance shall be made by SIPC to the trustee to pay
or otherwise satisfy any net equity claim of any customer who
is a broker or dealer or bank, other than to the extent that it
shall be established to the satisfaction of the trustee, from the
books and records of the debtor or from the books and records
of a broker or dealer or bank, or otherwise, that the net equity
claim of such broker or dealer or bank against the debtor arose
out of transactions for customers of such broker or dealer or
bank (which customers are not themselves a broker or dealer
or bank or a person described in paragraph (4)), in which event
each such customer of such broker or dealer or bank shall be
deemed a separate customer of the debtor.

33

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 9


To the extent moneys are advanced by SIPC to the trustee to pay
or otherwise satisfy the claims of customers, in addition to all other
rights it may have at law or in equity, SIPC shall be subrogated
to the claims of such customers with the rights and priorities pro­
vided in this Act, except that SIPC as subrogee may assert no
claim against customer property until after the allocation thereof
to customers as provided in section 8(c).
(b) OTHER ADVANCES.—SIPC shall advance to the trustee—
(1) such moneys as may be required to carry out section
8(e); and
(2) to the extent the general estate of the debtor is not suf­
ficient to pay any and all costs and expenses of administration
of the estate of the debtor and of the liquidation proceeding,
the amount of such costs and expenses.
(c) DISCRETIONARY ADVANCES.—SIPC may advance to the
trustee such moneys as may be required to—
(1) pay or guarantee indebtedness of the debtor to a bank,
lender, or other person under section 7(b)(2);
(2) guarantee or secure any indemnity under section 8(f);
(3) purchase securities under section 8(d).
(d) STANDARD MAXIMUM CASH ADVANCE AMOUNT DEFINED.—
For purposes of this section, the term ‘‘standard maximum cash ad­
vance amount’’ means $250,000, as such amount may be adjusted
after December 31, 2010, as provided under subsection (e).
(e) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Not later than January 1, 2011, and
every 5 years thereafter, and subject to the approval of the
Commission as provided under section 3(e)(2), the Board of Di­
rectors of SIPC shall determine whether an inflation adjust­
ment to the standard maximum cash advance amount is appro­
priate. If the Board of Directors of SIPC determines such an
adjustment is appropriate, then the standard maximum cash
advance amount shall be an amount equal to—
(A) $250,000 multiplied by—
(B) the ratio of the annual value of the Personal Con­
sumption Expenditures Chain-Type Price Index (or any
successor index thereto), published by the Department of
Commerce, for the calendar year preceding the year in
which such determination is made, to the published an­
nual value of such index for the calendar year preceding
the year in which this subsection was enacted.
The index values used in calculations under this paragraph
shall be, as of the date of the calculation, the values most re­
cently published by the Department of Commerce.
(2) ROUNDING.—If the standard maximum cash advance
amount determined under paragraph (1) for any period is not
a multiple of $10,000, the amount so determined shall be
rounded down to the nearest $10,000.
(3) PUBLICATION AND REPORT TO THE CONGRESS.—Not later
than April 5 of any calendar year in which a determination is
required to be made under paragraph (1)—
(A) the Commission shall publish in the Federal Reg­
ister the standard maximum cash advance amount; and

Sec. 10

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

34


(B) the Board of Directors of SIPC shall submit a re­
port to the Congress stating the standard maximum cash
advance amount.
(4) IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD.—Any adjustment to the
standard maximum cash advance amount shall take effect on
January 1 of the year immediately succeeding the calendar
year in which such adjustment is made.
(5) INFLATION ADJUSTMENT CONSIDERATIONS.—In making
any determination under paragraph (1) to increase the stand­
ard maximum cash advance amount, the Board of Directors of
SIPC shall consider—
(A) the overall state of the fund and the economic con­
ditions affecting members of SIPC;
(B) the potential problems affecting members of SIPC;
and
(C) such other factors as the Board of Directors of
SIPC may determine appropriate.
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 9, as added Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 9, May 21,
1978, 92 Stat. 265; amended Pub. L. 96-433, Sec. 1, Oct. 10, 1980,
94 Stat. 1855; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Secs. 929H(a), 983(a), July
21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1856, 1931.)
PRIOR PROVISIONS

13.

A prior section 9 of Pub. L. 91-598 was renumbered section
AMENDMENTS

2010 — Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 983(a), in­
serted ‘‘or options on commodity futures contracts’’ after ‘‘claim
for securities’’.
Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929H(a)(1), substituted ‘‘the standard
maximum cash advance amount for each such customer, as de­
termined in accordance with subsection (d)’’ for ‘‘$100,000 for
each such customer’’.
Subsecs. (d), (e). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929H(a)(2), added
subsecs. (d) and (e).
1980 — Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 96-433, Sec. 1(1), substituted
in opening par. ‘‘$500,000’’ for ‘‘$100,000’’.
Subsec. (a)(1). Pub. L. 96-433, Sec. 1(2), substituted
‘‘$100,000’’ for ‘‘$40,000’’.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2010 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 111-203 effective 1 day after July
21, 2010, see section 4 of Pub. L. 111-203.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1980 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 96-433 effective Oct. 10, 1980, see
section 5(a) of Pub. L. 96-433.
SEC. 10. DIRECT PAYMENT PROCEDURE.
(a) DETERMINATION REGARDING DIRECT

determines that—

PAYMENTS.—If SIPC

35

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 10


(1) any member of SIPC (including a person who was a
member within one hundred eighty days prior to such deter­
mination) has failed or is in danger of failing to meet its obli­
gations to customers;
(2) one or more of the conditions specified in section 5(b)(1)
exist with respect to such member;
(3) the claim of each customer of the member is within the
limits of protection provided in section 9(a);
(4) the claims of all customers of the member aggregate
less than $250,000; and
(5) the cost to SIPC of satisfying customer claims under
this section will be less than the cost under a liquidation pro­
ceeding; and
(6) such member’s registration as a broker-dealer under
section 15(b) of the 1934 Act has been terminated, or such
member has consented to the use of the direct payment proce­
dure set forth in this section,
SIPC may, in its discretion, use the direct payment procedure set
forth in this section in lieu of instituting a liquidation proceeding
with respect to such member.
(b) NOTICE.—Promptly after a determination under subsection
(a) that the direct payment procedure is to be used with respect to
a member, SIPC shall cause notice of such direct payment proce­
dure to be published in one or more newspapers of general circula­
tion in a form and manner determined by SIPC, and at the same
time shall cause to be mailed a copy of such notice to each person
who appears, from the books and records of such member, to have
been a customer of the member with an open account within the
past twelve months, to the address of such person as it appears
from the books and records of such member. Such notice shall state
that SIPC will satisfy customer claims directly, without a liquida­
tion proceeding, and shall set forth the form and manner in which
claims may be presented. A direct payment procedure shall be
deemed to commence on the date of first publication under this
subsection and no claim by a customer shall be paid or otherwise
satisfied by SIPC unless received within the six-month period be­
ginning on such date, except that SIPC shall, upon application
within such period, and for cause shown, grant a reasonable, fixed
extension of time for the filing of a claim by the United States, by
a State or political subdivision thereof, or by an infant or incom­
petent person without a guardian.
(c) PAYMENTS TO CUSTOMERS.—SIPC shall promptly satisfy all
obligations of the member to each of its customers relating to, or
net equity claims based upon, securities or cash by the delivery of
securities or the effecting of payments to such customer (subject to
the provisions of section 8(d) and section 9(a)) insofar as such obli­
gations are ascertainable from the books and records of the mem­
ber or are otherwise established to the satisfaction of SIPC. For
purposes of distributing securities to customers, all securities shall
be valued as of the close of business on the date of publication
under subsection (b). Any payment or delivery of securities pursu­
ant to this section may be conditioned upon the execution and de­
livery, in a form to be determined by SIPC, of appropriate receipts,
supporting affidavits, releases, and assignments. To the extent

Sec. 10

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

36


moneys of SIPC are used to satisfy the claims of customers, in ad­
dition to all other rights it may have at law or in equity, SIPC
shall be subrogated to the claims of such customers against the
member.
(d) EFFECT ON CLAIMS.—Except as otherwise provided in this
section, nothing in this section shall limit the right of any person,
including any subrogee, to establish by formal proof or otherwise
such claims as such person may have against the member, includ­
ing claims for the payment of money and the delivery of specific se­
curities, without resort to moneys of SIPC.
(e) JURISDICTION OF BANKRUPTCY COURTS.—After SIPC has
published notice of the institution of a direct payment procedure
under this section, any person aggrieved by any determination of
SIPC with respect to his claim under subsection (c) may, within six
months following mailing by SIPC of its determination with respect
to such claim, seek a final adjudication of such claim. The courts
of the United States having jurisdiction over cases under title 11
of the United States Code shall have original and exclusive juris­
diction of any civil action for the adjudication of such claim. Any
such action shall be brought in the judicial district where the head
office of the debtor is located. Any determination of the rights of
a customer under subsection (c) shall not prejudice any other right
or remedy of the customer against the member.
(f) DISCONTINUANCE OF DIRECT PAYMENT PROCEDURES.—If, at
any time after the institution of a direct payment procedure with
respect to a member, SIPC determines, in its discretion, that con­
tinuation of such direct payment procedure is not appropriate,
SIPC may cease such direct payment procedure and, upon so doing,
may seek a protective decree pursuant to section 5. To the extent
payments of cash, distributions of securities, or determinations
with respect to the validity of a customer’s claim are made under
this section, such payments, distributions, and determinations shall
be recognized and given full effect in the event of any subsequent
liquidation proceeding. Any action brought under subsection (e)
and pending at the time of the appointment of a trustee under sec­
tion 5(b)(3) shall be permanently stayed by the court at the time
of such appointment, and the court shall enter an order directing
the transfer or removal to it of such suit. Upon such removal or
transfer the complaint in such action shall constitute the plaintiff’s
claim in the liquidation proceeding, if appropriate, and shall be
deemed received by the trustee on the date of his appointment re­
gardless of the date of actual transfer or removal of such action.
(g) REFERENCES.—For purposes of this section, any reference to
the trustee in sections 7(b)(1), 8(d), 8(f), 9(a), 16(5) and 16(12) shall
be deemed a reference to SIPC, and any reference to the date of
publication of notice under section 8(a) shall be deemed a reference
to the publication of notice under this section.
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 10, as added Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 9, May 21,
1978, 92 Stat. 266; amended Pub. L. 95-598, title III, Sec. 308(n),
Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2675.)

37

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 11


REFERENCES IN TEXT

The 1934 Act, referred to in text, as meaning the Securi­
ties Exchange Act of 1934, see section 2 of this Act.
PRIOR PROVISIONS

A prior section 10 of Pub. L. 91-598 was renumbered sec­
tion 14.
AMENDMENTS

1978 — Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 95-598 substituted in heading
‘‘Bankruptcy Courts’’ for ‘‘District Courts’’ and in text ‘‘courts
of the United States having jurisdiction over cases under title
11 of the United States Code’’ for ‘‘district courts of the United
States’’ and struck out ‘‘, without regard to the citizenship of
the parties or the amount in controversy’’ after ‘‘adjudication of
such claim’’.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1978 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 95-598 effective Oct. 1, 1979, see
section 402(a) of Pub. L. 95-598.
SEC. 11. SEC FUNCTIONS.
(a) ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE.—Determinations

of the Com­
mission, for purposes of making rules pursuant to section 3(e)(3)
and section 13(f) shall be after appropriate notice and opportunity
for a hearing, and for submission of views of interested persons, in
accordance with the rulemaking procedures specified in section 553
of title 5, United States Code, but the holding of a hearing shall
not prevent adoption of any such rule or regulation upon expiration
of the notice period specified in subsection (d) of such section and
shall not be required to be on a record within the meaning of subchapter II of chapter 5 of such title.
(b) ENFORCEMENT OF ACTIONS.—In the event of the refusal of
SIPC to commit its funds or otherwise to act for the protection of
customers of any member of SIPC, the Commission may apply to
the district court of the United States in which the principal office
of SIPC is located for an order requiring SIPC to discharge its obli­
gations under this Act and for such other relief as the court may
deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this Act.
(c) EXAMINATIONS AND REPORTS.—
(1) EXAMINATION OF SIPC, ETC.—The Commission may
make such examinations and inspections of SIPC and require
SIPC to furnish it with such reports and records or copies
thereof as the Commission may consider necessary or appro­
priate in the public interest or to effectuate the purposes of
this Act.
(2) REPORTS FROM SIPC.—As soon as practicable after the
close of each fiscal year, SIPC shall submit to the Commission
a written report relative to the conduct of its business, and the
exercise of the other rights and powers granted by this Act,
during such fiscal year. Such report shall include financial
statements setting forth the financial position of SIPC at the

Sec. 12

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

38


end of such fiscal year and the results of its operations (includ­
ing the source and application of its funds) for such fiscal year.
The financial statements so included shall be examined by an
independent public accountant or firm of independent public
accountants, selected by SIPC and satisfactory to the Commis­
sion, and shall be accompanied by the report thereon of such
accountant or firm. The Commission shall transmit such report
to the President and the Congress with such comment thereon
as the Commission may deem appropriate.
(d) [Amended section 15(c)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934]
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 11, formerly Sec. 7, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat.
1652, 1653; renumbered Sec. 11 and amended Pub. L. 95-283, Sec.
9, 10, May 21, 1978, 92 Stat. 260, 268.)
TERMINATION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS

For termination, effective May 15, 2000, of provisions in
subsec. (c)(2) of this section relating to submittal of annual re­
port to Congress, see section 3003 of Pub. L. 104-66, as amend­
ed.
PRIOR PROVISIONS

A prior section 11 of Pub. L. 91-598 was renumbered sec­
tion 15.
AMENDMENTS

1978 — Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95-283 substituted ‘‘making
rules’’ for ‘‘making rules or regulations’’.
SEC. 12. EXAMINING AUTHORITY FUNCTIONS.

Each member of SIPC shall file with such member’s examining
authority, or collection agent if a collection agent has been des­
ignated pursuant to section 13(a), such information (including re­
ports of, and information with respect to the gross revenues from
the securities business of such member, including the composition
thereof, transactions in securities effected by such member, and
other information with respect to such member’s activities, whether
in the securities business or otherwise, including customer ac­
counts maintained, net capital employed, and activities conducted)
as SIPC may determine to be necessary or appropriate for the pur­
pose of making assessments under section 4. The examining au­
thority or collection agent shall file with SIPC all or such part of
such information (and such compilations and analyses thereof) as
SIPC, by bylaw or rule, shall prescribe. No application, report, or
document filed pursuant to this section shall be deemed to be filed
pursuant to section 18 of the 1934 Act.
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 12, formerly Sec. 8, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat.
1653; renumbered Sec. 12 and amended Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 9, 11,
May 21, 1978, 92 Stat. 260, 268.)

39

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 13


REFERENCES IN TEXT

The 1934 Act, referred to in text, as meaning the Securi­
ties Exchange Act of 1934, see section 2 of this Act.
PRIOR PROVISIONS

A prior section 12 of Pub. L. 91-598 was renumbered sec­
tion 16.
AMENDMENTS

1978 — Pub. L. 95-283 inserted provisions relating to ap­
plicability to a collection agent.
SEC. 13. FUNCTIONS OF SELF-REGULATORY ORGANIZATIONS.
(a) COLLECTION AGENT.—Each self-regulatory organization

shall act as collection agent for SIPC to collect the assessments
payable by all members of SIPC for whom such self-regulatory or­
ganization is the examining authority, unless SIPC designates a
self-regulatory organization other than the examining authority to
act as collection agent for any member of SIPC who is a member
of or participant in more than one self-regulatory organization. If
the only self-regulatory organization of which a member of SIPC is
a member or in which it is a participant is a registered clearing
agency that is not the examining authority for the member, SIPC
may, nevertheless, designate such registered clearing agency as col­
lection agent for the member or may require that payments be
made directly to SIPC. The collection agent shall be obligated to
remit to SIPC assessments made under section 4 only to the extent
that payments of such assessment are received by such collection
agent. Members of SIPC who are not members of or participants
in a self-regulatory organization shall make payments directly to
SIPC.
(b) IMMUNITY.—No self-regulatory organization shall have any
liability to any person for any action taken or omitted in good faith
pursuant to section 5(a)(1) and section 5(a)(2).
(c) INSPECTIONS.—The self-regulatory organization of which a
member of SIPC is a member or in which it is a participant shall
inspect or examine such member for compliance with applicable fi­
nancial responsibility rules, except that—
(1) if the self-regulatory organization is a registered clear­
ing agency, the Commission may designate itself as responsible
for the examination of such member for compliance with appli­
cable financial responsibility rules; and
(2) if a member of SIPC is a member of or participant in
more than one self-regulatory organization, the Commission,
pursuant to section 17(d) of the 1934 Act, shall designate one
of such self- regulatory organizations or itself as responsible for
the examination of such member for compliance with applica­
ble financial responsibility rules.
(d) REPORTS.—There shall be filed with SIPC by the self-regu­
latory organizations such reports of inspections or examinations of
the members of SIPC (or copies thereof) as may be designated by
SIPC by bylaw or rule.

Sec. 13

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

40


(e) CONSULTATION.—SIPC shall consult and cooperate with the
self- regulatory organizations toward the end:
(1) that there may be developed and carried into effect pro­
cedures reasonably designed to detect approaching financial
difficulty upon the part of any member of SIPC;
(2) that, as nearly as may be practicable, examinations to
ascertain whether members of SIPC are in compliance with ap­
plicable financial responsibility rules will be conducted by the
self- regulatory organizations under appropriate standards
(both as to method and scope) and reports of such examina­
tions will, where appropriate, be standard in form; and
(3) that, as frequently as may be practicable under the cir­
cumstances, each member of SIPC will file financial informa­
tion with, and be examined by, the self-regulatory organization
which is the examining authority for such member.
(f) FINANCIAL CONDITION OF MEMBERS.—The Commission may,
by such rules as it determines necessary or appropriate in the pub­
lic interest and to carry out the purposes of this Act, require any
self-regulatory organization to furnish SIPC with reports and
records (or copies thereof) relating to the financial condition of
members of or participants in such self-regulatory organization.
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 13, formerly Sec. 9, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat.
1654; amended Pub. L. 94-29, Sec. 26, June 4, 1975, 89 Stat. 163;
renumbered Sec. 13 and amended Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 9, 12, May
21, 1978, 92 Stat. 260, 269.)
REFERENCES IN TEXT

The 1934 Act, referred to in text, as meaning the Securi­
ties Exchange Act of 1934, see section 2 of this Act.
AMENDMENTS

1978 — Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 12(a), in heading
substituted ‘‘Collection’’ for ‘‘Collecting’’, and in text inserted
provisions relating to designation of a self-regulatory organiza­
tion other than the examining authority to act as collection
agent and provisions relating to designation of a registered
clearing agency as collection agent, and substituted provisions
relating to remittances by the collection agent to SIPC, for pro­
visions relating to remittances by an examining authority to
SIPC.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 12(b), inserted reference
to section 5(a)(2).
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 12(c), revised existing for­
mat and provisions into introductory text and cl. (2) and, as so
revised, in introductory text inserted provisions respecting par­
ticipation by a member of SIPC in a self-regulatory organiza­
tion and in cl. (2) inserted provisions respecting such participa­
tion and authorization for the Commission to designate itself
as responsible for the statutory examination, and added cl. (1).
Subsec. (f). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 12(d), substituted provi­
sions authorizing the Commission to set out rules requiring
self-regulatory organizations to furnish SIPC with reports and

41

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 14


records of members or participants in such self-regulatory or­
ganizations, for provisions authorizing the Commission to set
out rules, and regulations requiring self-regulatory organiza­
tions to adopt rules, practices, and procedures respecting in­
spections and examinations of members and examiners, to fur­
nish SIPC and the Commission with reports and records of
members, and to inspect or examine members.
1975 — Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 94-29 directed the Commission
to designate the self-regulatory organization to be responsible
for enforcing applicable rules with respect to any firm which is
a member of more than one self-regulatory organization.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1975 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 94-29 effective June 4, 1975, see
section 31(a) of Pub. L. 94-29.
SEC. 14. PROHIBITED ACTS.
(a) FAILURE TO PAY ASSESSMENT,

ETC.—If a member of SIPC
shall fail to file any report or information required pursuant to this
Act, or shall fail to pay when due all or any part of an assessment
made upon such member pursuant to this Act, and such failure
shall not have been cured, by the filing of such report or informa­
tion or by the making of such payment, together with interest and
penalty thereon, within five days after receipt by such member of
written notice of such failure given by or on behalf of SIPC, it shall
be unlawful for such member, unless specifically authorized by the
Commission, to engage in business as a broker or dealer. If such
member denies that it owes all or any part of the amount specified
in such notice, it may after payment of the full amount so specified
commence an action against SIPC in the appropriate United States
district court to recover the amount it denies owing.
(b) ENGAGING IN BUSINESS AFTER APPOINTMENT OF TRUSTEE
OR INITIATION OF DIRECT PAYMENT PROCEDURE.—It shall be unlaw­
ful for any broker or dealer for whom a trustee has been appointed
pursuant to this Act or for whom a direct payment procedure has
been initiated to engage thereafter in business as a broker or deal­
er, unless the Commission otherwise determines in the public in­
terest. The Commission may by order bar or suspend for any pe­
riod, any officer, director, general partner, owner of 10 per centum
or more of the voting securities, or controlling person of any broker
or dealer for whom a trustee has been appointed pursuant to this
Act or for whom a direct payment procedure has been initiated
from being or becoming associated with a broker or dealer, if after
appropriate notice and opportunity for hearing, the Commission
shall determine such bar or suspension to be in the public interest.
(c) CONCEALMENT OF ASSETS; FALSE STATEMENTS OR CLAIMS.—
(1) SPECIFIC PROHIBITED ACTS.—Any person who, directly
or indirectly, in connection with or in contemplation of any liq­
uidation proceeding or direct payment procedure—
(A) employs any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud;
(B) engages in any act, practice, or course of business
which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon
any person; or

Sec. 14

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

42


(C) fraudulently or with intent to defeat this Act—
(i) conceals or transfers any property belonging to
the estate of a debtor;
(ii) makes a false statement or account;
(iii) presents or uses any false claim for proof
against the estate of a debtor;
(iv) receives any material amount of property from
a debtor;
(v) gives, offers, receives, transfers, or obtains any
money or property, remuneration, compensation, re­
ward, advantage, other consideration, or promise
thereof, for acting or forebearing to act;
(vi) conceals, destroys, mutilates, falsifies, makes
a false entry in, or otherwise falsifies any document
affecting or relating to the property or affairs of a
debtor; or
(vii) withholds, from any person entitled to its pos­
session, any document affecting or relating to the
property or affairs of a debtor.
shall be fined not more than $250,000 or imprisoned for not
more than five years, or both.
(2) FRAUDULENT CONVERSION.—Any person who, directly
or indirectly steals, embezzles, or fraudulently, or with intent
to defeat this Act, abstracts or converts to his own use or to
the use of another any of the moneys, securities, or other as­
sets of SIPC, or otherwise defrauds or attempts to defraud
SIPC or a trustee by any means, shall be fined not more than
$250,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both.
(d) MISREPRESENTATION OF SIPC MEMBERSHIP OR PROTEC­
TION.—
(1) IN GENERAL.—Any person who falsely represents by
any means (including, without limitation, through the Internet
or any other medium of mass communication), with actual
knowledge of the falsity of the representation and with an in­
tent to deceive or cause injury to another, that such person, or
another person, is a member of SIPC or that any person or ac­
count is protected or is eligible for protection under this Act or
by SIPC, shall be liable for any damages caused thereby and
shall be fined not more than $250,000 or imprisoned for not
more than 5 years.
(2) INJUNCTIONS.—Any court having jurisdiction of a civil
action arising under this Act may grant temporary injunctions
and final injunctions on such terms as the court deems reason­
able to prevent or restrain any violation of paragraph (1). Any
such injunction may be served anywhere in the United States
on the person enjoined, shall be operative throughout the
United States, and shall be enforceable, by proceedings in con­
tempt or otherwise, by any United States court having jurisdic­
tion over that person. The clerk of the court granting the in­
junction shall, when requested by any other court in which en­
forcement of the injunction is sought, transmit promptly to the
other court a certified copy of all papers in the case on file in
such clerk’s office.

43

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 15


(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 14, formerly Sec. 10, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat.
1655; renumbered Sec. 14 and amended Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 9, 13,
May 21, 1978, 92 Stat. 260, 269; Pub. L. 111-203, title IX, Sec.
929V(b), (c), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1868.)
AMENDMENTS

2010 — Subsec. (c)(1). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929V(b)(1),
substituted ‘‘$250,000’’ for ‘‘$50,000’’.
Subsec. (c)(2). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929V(b)(2), substituted
‘‘$250,000’’ for ‘‘$50,000’’.
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 929V(c), added subsec.
(d).
1978 — Subsec. (a). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 13(a), inserted
‘‘and penalty’’ after ‘‘interest’’, and substituted ‘‘it’’ for ‘‘he’’
wherever appearing.
Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 13(b), in heading inserted
‘‘or initiation of direct payment procedure’’ after ‘‘trustee’’, and
in text inserted references to initiation of direct payment proce­
dure in two places.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 13(c), in heading sub­
stituted ‘‘Concealment of assets; false statements or claims’’ for
‘‘Embezzlement, etc., of assets of SIPC’’, added par. (1), and
designated existing provisions as par. (2) and, as so designated,
inserted references to direct or indirect acts, and provisions
covering defrauding or attempts to defraud SIPC or a trustee,
and substituted provisions covering activities constituting
fraudulent, or with intent to defeat this Act, abstracts or con­
versions, for provisions covering activities constituting unlaw­
fully abstracting or unlawfully and willfully converting mon­
eys, etc.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2010 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 111-203 effective 1 day after July
21, 2010, see section 4 of Pub. L. 111-203.
SEC. 15. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
(a) PUBLIC INSPECTION OF REPORTS.—Any

notice, report, or
other document filed with SIPC pursuant to this Act shall be avail­
able for public inspection unless SIPC or the Commission shall de­
termine that disclosure thereof is not in the public interest. Noth­
ing herein shall act to deny documents or information to the Con­
gress of the United States or the committees of either House hav­
ing jurisdiction over financial institutions, securities regulation, or
related matters under the rules of each body. Nor shall the Com­
mission be denied any document or information which the Commis­
sion, in its judgment, needs.
(b) LIABILITY OF MEMBERS OF SIPC.—Except for such assess­
ments as may be made upon such member pursuant to the provi­
sions of section 4, no member of SIPC shall have any liability
under this Act as a member of SIPC for, or in connection with, any
act or omission of any other broker or dealer whether in connection
with the conduct of the business or affairs of such broker or dealer
or otherwise and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing,

Sec. 15

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

44


no member shall have any liability for or in respect of any indebt­
edness or other liability of SIPC.
(c) LIABILITY OF SIPC AND DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, OR EMPLOY­
EES.— Neither SIPC nor any of its Directors, officers, or employees
shall have any liability to any person for any action taken or omit­
ted in good faith under or in connection with any matter con­
templated by this Act.
(d) ADVERTISING.—SIPC shall by bylaw prescribe the manner
in which a member of SIPC may display any sign or signs (or in­
clude in any advertisement a statement) relating to the protection
of customers and their accounts, or any other protections, afforded
under this Act. No member may display any such sign, or include
in an advertisement any such statement, except in accordance with
such bylaws. SIPC may also by bylaw prescribe such minimal re­
quirements as it considers necessary and appropriate to require a
member of SIPC to provide public notice of its membership in
SIPC.
(e) SIPC EXEMPT FROM TAXATION.—SIPC, its property, its fran­
chise, capital, reserves, surplus, and its income, shall be exempt
from all taxation now or hereafter imposed by the United States or
by any State or local taxing authority, except that any real prop­
erty and any tangible personal property (other than cash and secu­
rities) of SIPC shall be subject to State and local taxation to the
same extent according to its value as other real and tangible per­
sonal property is taxed. Assessments made upon a member of SIPC
shall constitute ordinary and necessary expenses in carrying on the
business of such member for the purpose of section 162(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954. The contribution and transfer to
SIPC of funds or securities held by any trust established by a na­
tional securities exchange prior to January 1, 1970, for the purpose
of providing assistance to customers of members of such exchange,
shall not result in any taxable gain to such trust or give rise to any
taxable income to any member of SIPC under any provision of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954, nor shall such contribution or
transfer, or any reduction in assessments made pursuant to this
Act, in any way affect the status, as ordinary and necessary ex­
penses under section 162(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954,
of any contributions made to such trust by such exchange at any
time prior to such transfer. Upon dissolution of SIPC, none of its
net assets shall inure to the benefit of any of its members.
(f) SECTION 20(A) OF 1934 ACT NOT TO APPLY.—The provisions
of subsection (a) of section 20 of the 1934 Act shall not apply to
any liability under or in connection with this Act.
(g) SEC STUDY OF UNSAFE OR UNSOUND PRACTICES.—Not later
than twelve months after the date of enactment of this Act, the
Commission shall compile a list of unsafe or unsound practices by
members of SIPC in conducting their business and report to the
Congress (1) the steps being taken under the authority of existing
law to eliminate those practices and (2) recommendations con­
cerning additional legislation which may be needed to eliminate
those unsafe or unsound practices.
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 15, formerly Sec. 11, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat.
1655; renumbered Sec. 15 and amended Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 9, 14,

45

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 16


May 21, 1978, 92 Stat. 260, 270; Pub. L. 99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22,
1986, 100 Stat. 2095.)
REFERENCES IN TEXT

The Internal Revenue Code of 1954, referred to in text,
was enacted by act Aug. 16, 1954, ch. 736, 68A Stat. 3, was
redesignated as the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 by Pub. L.
99-514, Sec. 2, Oct. 22, 1986, 100 Stat. 2095, and is classified
generally to U.S.Code Title 26, Internal Revenue Code.
The 1934 Act, referred to in text, as meaning the Securi­
ties Exchange Act of 1934, see section 2 of this Act.
The date of enactment of this Act, referred to in text, is
the date of enactment of Pub. L. 91-598, which was approved
Dec. 30, 1970.
AMENDMENTS

1986 — Subsec. (e). Pub. L. 99-514 provided that reference
to Internal Revenue Code of 1954 be treated as reference to In­
ternal Revenue Code of 1986, but did not direct change in text.
1978 — Subsec. (b). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 14(c), redesig­
nated subsec. (c) as (b). Former subsec. (b), relating to applica­
tion of securities investor protection provisions to foreign mem­
bers, was struck out.
Subsec. (c). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 14(a), (c), redesignated
subsec. (d) as (c) and inserted ‘‘, officers, or employees’’ after
‘‘Directors’’ in heading and text. Former subsec. (c) redesig­
nated (b).
Subsec. (d). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 14(b), (c), redesignated
subsec. (e) as (d), inserted provisions authorizing SIPC to pre­
scribe necessary and proper minimal requirements for pro­
viding public notice of membership by a member of SIPC in
SIPC, and struck out provisions authorizing rules by SIPC to
implement advertising requirements. Former subsec. (d) redes­
ignated (c).
Subsecs. (e) to (h). Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 14(c), redesignated
subsecs. (e) to (h) as (d) to (g), respectively.
SEC. 16. DEFINITIONS.

For purposes of this Act, including the application of the Bank­
ruptcy Act to a liquidation proceeding:
(1) COMMISSION.—The term ‘‘Commission’’ means the Secu­
rities and Exchange Commission.
(2) CUSTOMER.—
(A) IN GENERAL.—The term ‘‘customer’’ of a debtor
means any person (including any person with whom the
debtor deals as principal or agent) who has a claim on ac­
count of securities received, acquired, or held by the debtor
in the ordinary course of its business as a broker or dealer
from or for the securities accounts of such person for safe­
keeping, with a view to sale, to cover consummated sales,
pursuant to purchases, as collateral, security, or for pur­
poses of effecting transfer.

Sec. 16

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

46


(B) INCLUDED PERSONS.—The term ‘‘customer’’ in­
cludes—
(i) any person who has deposited cash with the
debtor for the purpose of purchasing securities;
(ii) any person who has a claim against the debtor
for cash, securities, futures contracts, or options on fu­
tures contracts received, acquired, or held in a port­
folio margining account carried as a securities account
pursuant to a portfolio margining program approved
by the Commission; and
(iii) any person who has a claim against the debt­
or arising out of sales or conversions of such securities.
(C) EXCLUDED PERSONS.—The term ‘‘customer’’ does
not include any person, to the extent that—
(i) the claim of such person arises out of trans­
actions with a foreign subsidiary of a member of SIPC;
or
(ii) such person has a claim for cash or securities
which by contract, agreement, or understanding, or by
operation of law, is part of the capital of the debtor,
or is subordinated to the claims of any or all creditors
of the debtor, notwithstanding that some ground exists
for declaring such contract, agreement, or under­
standing void or voidable in a suit between the claim­
ant and the debtor.
(3) CUSTOMER NAME SECURITIES.—The term ‘‘customer
name securities’’ means securities which were held for the ac­
count of a customer on the filing date by or on behalf of the
debtor and which on the filing date were registered in the
name of the customer, or were in the process of being so reg­
istered pursuant to instructions from the debtor, but does not
include securities registered in the name of the customer
which, by endorsement or otherwise, were in negotiable form.
(4) CUSTOMER PROPERTY.—The term ‘‘customer property’’
means cash and securities (except customer name securities
delivered to the customer) at any time received, acquired, or
held by or for the account of a debtor from or for the securities
accounts of a customer, and the proceeds of any such property
transferred by the debtor, including property unlawfully con­
verted. The term ‘‘customer property’’ includes—
(A) securities held as property of the debtor to the ex­
tent that the inability of the debtor to meet its obligations
to customers for their net equity claims based on securities
of the same class and series of an issuer is attributable to
the debtor’s noncompliance with the requirements of sec­
tion 15(c)(3) of the 1934 Act and the rules prescribed under
such section;
(B) resources provided through the use or realization
of customers’ debit cash balances and other customer-re­
lated debit items as defined by the Commission by rule;
(C) any cash or securities apportioned to customer
property pursuant to section 6(d);
(D) in the case of a portfolio margining account of a
customer that is carried as a securities account pursuant

47

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 16


to a portfolio margining program approved by the Commis­
sion, a futures contract or an option on a futures contract
received, acquired, or held by or for the account of a debtor
from or for such portfolio margining account, and the pro­
ceeds thereof; and
(E) any other property of the debtor which, upon com­
pliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations, would
have been set aside or held for the benefit of customers,
unless the trustee determines that including such property
within the meaning of such term would not significantly
increase customer property.
(5) DEBTOR.—The term ‘‘debtor’’ means a member of SIPC
with respect to whom an application for a protective decree has
been filed under section 5(a)(3) or a direct payment procedure
has been instituted under section 10(b).
(6) EXAMINING AUTHORITY.—The term ‘‘examining author­
ity’’ means, with respect to any member of SIPC (A) the selfregulatory organization which inspects or examines such mem­
ber of SIPC, or (B) the Commission if such member of SIPC is
not a member of or participant in any self-regulatory organiza­
tion or if the Commission has designated itself examining au­
thority for such member pursuant to section 13(c).
(7) FILING DATE.—The term ‘‘filing date’’ means the date
on which an application for a protective decree is filed under
section 5(a)(3), except that—
(A) if a petition under title 11 of the United States
Code concerning the debtor was filed before such date, the
term ‘‘filing date’’ means the date on which such petition
was filed;
(B) if the debtor is the subject of a proceeding pending
in any court or before any agency of the United States or
any State in which a receiver, trustee, or liquidator for
such debtor has been appointed and such proceeding was
commenced before the date on which such application was
filed, the term ‘‘filing date’’ means the date on which such
proceeding was commenced; or
(C) if the debtor is the subject of a direct payment pro­
cedure or was the subject of a direct payment procedure
discontinued by SIPC pursuant to section 10(f), the term
‘‘filing date’’ means the date on which notice of such direct
payment procedure was published under section 10(b).
(8) FOREIGN SUBSIDIARY.—The term ‘‘foreign subsidiary’’
means any subsidiary of a member of SIPC which has its prin­
cipal place of business in a foreign country or which is orga­
nized under the laws of a foreign country.
(9) GROSS REVENUES FROM THE SECURITIES BUSINESS.—The
term ‘‘gross revenues from the securities business’’ means the
sum of (but without duplication)—
(A) commissions earned in connection with trans­
actions in securities effected for customers as agent (net of
commissions paid to other brokers and dealers in connec­
tion with such transactions) and markups with respect to
purchases or sales of securities as principal;

Sec. 16

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

48


(B) charges for executing or clearing transactions in
securities for other brokers and dealers;
(C) the net realized gain, if any, from principal trans­
actions in securities in trading accounts;
(D) the net profit, if any, from the management of or
participation in the underwriting or distribution of securi­
ties;
(E) interest earned on customers’ securities accounts;
(F) fees for investment advisory services (except when
rendered to one or more registered investment companies
or insurance company separate accounts) or account super­
vision with respect to securities;
(G) fees for the solicitation of proxies with respect to,
or tenders or exchanges of, securities;
(H) income from service charges or other surcharges
with respect to securities;
(I) except as otherwise provided by rule of the Com­
mission, dividends and interest received on securities in
investment accounts of the broker or dealer;
(J) fees in connection with put, call, and other option
transactions in securities;
(K) commissions earned from transactions in (i) certifi­
cates of deposit, and (ii) Treasury bills, bankers accept­
ances, or commercial paper which have a maturity at the
time of issuance of not exceeding nine months, exclusive of
days of grace, or any renewal thereof, the maturity of
which is likewise limited, except that SIPC shall by bylaw
include in the aggregate of gross revenues only an appro­
priate percentage of such commissions based on SIPC’s
loss experience with respect to such instruments over at
least the preceding five years; and
(L) fees and other income from such other categories
of the securities business as SIPC shall provide by bylaw.
Such term includes revenues earned by a broker or dealer in
connection with a transaction in the portfolio margining ac­
count of a customer carried as securities accounts pursuant to
a portfolio margining program approved by the Commission.
Such term does not include revenues received by a broker or
dealer in connection with the distribution of shares of a reg­
istered open end investment company or unit investment trust
or revenues derived by a broker or dealer from the sale of vari­
able annuities or from the conduct of the business of insurance.
(10) LIQUIDATION PROCEEDING.—The term ‘‘liquidation pro­
ceeding’’ means any proceeding for the liquidation of a debtor
under this Act in which a trustee has been appointed under
section 5(b)(3).
(11) NET EQUITY.—The term ‘‘net equity’’ means the dollar
amount of the account or accounts of a customer, to be deter­
mined by—
(A) calculating the sum which would have been owed
by the debtor to such customer if the debtor had liq­
uidated, by sale or purchase on the filing date—

49

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 16


(i) all securities positions of such customer (other
than customer name securities reclaimed by such cus­
tomer); and
(ii) all positions in futures contracts and options
on futures contracts held in a portfolio margining ac­
count carried as a securities account pursuant to a
portfolio margining program approved by the Commis­
sion, including all property collateralizing such posi­
tions, to the extent that such property is not otherwise
included herein; minus
(B) any indebtedness of such customer to the debtor on
the filing date; plus
(C) any payment by such customer of such indebted­
ness to the debtor which is made with the approval of the
trustee and within such period as the trustee may deter­
mine (but in no event more than sixty days after the publi­
cation of notice under section 8(a)).
A claim for a commodity futures contract received, acquired, or
held in a portfolio margining account pursuant to a portfolio
margining program approved by the Commission or a claim for
a security futures contract, shall be deemed to be a claim with
respect to such contract as of the filing date, and such claim
shall be treated as a claim for cash. In determining net equity
under this paragraph, accounts held by a customer in separate
capacities shall be deemed to be accounts of separate cus­
tomers.
(12) PERSONS REGISTERED AS BROKERS OR DEALERS.—The
term ‘‘persons registered as brokers or dealers’’ includes any
person who is a member of a national securities exchange
other than a government securities broker or government secu­
rities dealer registered under section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the 1934
Act.
(13) PROTECTIVE DECREE.—The term ‘‘protective decree’’
means a decree, issued by a court upon application of SIPC
under section 5(a)(3), that the customers of a member of SIPC
are in need of the protection provided under this Act.
(14) SECURITY.—The term ‘‘security’’ means any note,
stock, treasury stock, bond, debenture, evidence of indebted­
ness, any collateral trust certificate, preorganization certificate
or subscription, transferable share, voting trust certificate, cer­
tificate of deposit, certificate of deposit for a security, or any
security future as that term is defined in section 3(a)(55)(A) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, any investment contract
or certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing
agreement or in any oil, gas, or mineral royalty or lease (if
such investment contract or interest is the subject of a reg­
istration statement with the Commission pursuant to the pro­
visions of the Securities Act of 1933), any put, call, straddle,
option, or privilege on any security, or group or index of securi­
ties (including any interest therein or based on the value
thereof), or any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege entered
into on a national securities exchange relating to foreign cur­
rency, any certificate of interest or participation in, temporary
or interim certificate for, receipt for, guarantee of, or warrant

Sec. 16

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

50


or right to subscribe to or purchase or sell any of the foregoing,
and any other instrument commonly known as a security. Ex­
cept as specifically provided above, the term ‘‘security’’ does not
include any currency, or any commodity or related contract or
futures contract, or any warrant or right to subscribe to or pur­
chase or sell any of the foregoing.
(Pub. L. 91-598, Sec. 16, formerly Sec. 12, Dec. 30, 1970, 84 Stat.
1656; renumbered Sec. 16 and amended Pub. L. 95-283, Sec. 9, 15,
May 21, 1978, 92 Stat. 260, 271; Pub. L. 95-598, title III, Sec.
308(o), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2676; Pub. L. 97-303, Sec. 7, Oct. 13,
1982, 96 Stat. 1410; Pub. L. 100-181, title VIII, Sec. 802, Dec. 4,
1987, 101 Stat. 1265; Pub. L. 106-554, Sec. 1(a)(5) [title II, Sec.
203(d)(1)], Dec. 21, 2000, 114 Stat. 2763, 2763A-424; Pub. L. 111­
203, title IX, Sec. 983(b), July 21, 2010, 124 Stat. 1931.)
REFERENCES IN TEXT

The Bankruptcy Act, referred to in text, is act July 1,
1898, ch. 541, 30 Stat. 544, as amended, which was classified
generally to former U.S. Code Title 11, Bankruptcy. The Act
was repealed effective Oct. 1, 1979, by Pub. L. 95-598, Sec.
401(a), 402(a), Nov. 6, 1978, 92 Stat. 2682, section 101 of which
enacted revised U.S. Code Title 11.
The 1934 Act, referred to in text, as meaning the Securi­
ties Exchange Act of 1934, see section 2 of this Act.
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934, referred to in text,
is act June 6, 1934, ch. 404, 48 Stat. 881, as amended, which
is classified generally to chapter 2B (Sec. 78a et seq.) of U.S.
Code Title 15, Commerce and Trade.
The Securities Act of 1933, referred to in text, is act May
27, 1933, ch. 38, title I, 48 Stat. 74, as amended, which is clas­
sified generally to subchapter I (Sec. 77a et seq.) of chapter 2A
of U.S. Code Title 15, Commerce and Trade.
AMENDMENTS

2010 — Par. (2). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 983(b)(1), added
par. (2) and struck out former par. (2).
Par. (4)(D), (E). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 983(b)(2), added sub­
par. (D) and redesignated former subpar. (D) as (E).
Par. (9). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 983(b)(3), in concluding pro­
visions inserted after ‘‘Such term’’ the following: ‘‘includes reve­
nues earned by a broker or dealer in connection with a trans­
action in the portfolio margining account of a customer carried
as securities accounts pursuant to a portfolio margining pro­
gram approved by the Commission. Such term’’.
Par. (11). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 983(b)(4)(B), in concluding
provisions substituted ‘‘A claim for a commodity futures con­
tract received, acquired, or held in a portfolio margining ac­
count pursuant to a portfolio margining program approved by
the Commission or a claim for a security futures contract, shall
be deemed to be a claim with respect to such contract as of the
filing date, and such claim shall be treated as a claim for cash.
In determining’’ for ‘‘In determining’’.

51

SECURITIES INVESTOR PROTECTION ACT OF 1970

Sec. 16


Par. (11)(A). Pub. L. 111-203, Sec. 983(b)(4)(A), amended
subpar. (A) generally.
2000 — Par. (14). Pub. L. 106-554 inserted ‘‘or any secu­
rity future as that term is defined in section 3(a)(55)(A) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934,’’ after ‘‘certificate of deposit
for a security,’’.
1987 — Par. (12). Pub. L. 100-181 inserted ‘‘other than a
government securities broker or government securities dealer
registered under section 15C(a)(1)(A) of the 1934 Act’’.
1982 — Par. (14). Pub. L. 97-303 inserted ‘‘any put, call,
straddle, option, or privilege on any security, or group or index
of securities (including any interest therein or based on the
value thereof), or any put, call, straddle, option, or privilege en­
tered into on a national securities exchange relating to foreign
currency,’’ after ‘‘the Securities Act of 1933),’’ and substituted
‘‘Except as specifically provided above, the term ’security’ does
not include’’ for ‘‘The term ’security’ does not include’’.
1978 — Par. (1). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(o)(1), (3), struck
out par. (1) definition of ‘‘Bankruptcy Act’’ and redesignated
par. (2) as (1).
Pars. (2) to (6). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 309(o)(3), redesignated
pars. (3) to (7) as (2) to (6), respectively. Former par. (2) redes­
ignated (1).
Par. (7). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(o)(2), (3), redesignated
par. (8) as (7) and substituted in subpar. (A) ‘‘if a petition
under title 11 of the United States Code concerning the debtor
was filed before such date’’ for ‘‘if a petition was filed before
such date by or against the debtor under the Bankruptcy Act,
or under chapter X or XI of such Act, as now in effect or as
amended from time to time’’. Former par. (7) redesignated (6).
Pars. (8) to (15). Pub. L. 95-598, Sec. 308(o)(3), redesig­
nated pars. (9) to (15) as (8) to (14), respectively. Former par.
(8) redesignated (7).
Pub. L. 95-283 in introductory text inserted requirement
for applicability of terms to a liquidation proceeding involving
the Bankruptcy Act, in par. (1) heading substituted ‘‘Bank­
ruptcy Act’’ for ‘‘Self-regulatory organization’’, and in text sub­
stituted provisions defining such terms, in par. (2) heading
substituted ‘‘Commission’’ for ‘‘Financial responsibility rules’’,
and in text substituted provisions defining such terms, in par.
(3) heading substituted ‘‘Customer’’ for ‘‘Examining authority’’,
and in text substituted provisions defining such terms, and
added pars. (4) to (15).
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 2010 AMENDMENT

Amendment by Pub. L. 111-203 effective 1 day after July
21, 2010, see section 4 of Pub. L. 111-203.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF 1978 AMENDMENT

Amendment of section by Pub. L. 95-598 effective Oct. 1,
1979, see section 402(a) of Pub. L. 95-598.

