Changeover to the SEC’s New Smaller Reporting Company System 

by 

Small Business Issuers and Non-Accelerated Filer Companies 

A Small Entity Compliance Guide*
January 25, 2008

TABLE OF CONTENTS
This compliance guide is divided into the following parts:
INTRODUCTION
1.	

QUALIFYING AS A “SMALLER REPORTING COMPANY”

2.

	COMPLIANCE DATE GUIDANCE FOR CURRENT SMALL BUSINESS ISSUERS

3.

T
	 RANSITION TO NON-SB FORMS – GUIDANCE FOR CURRENT SMALL
BUSINESS ISSUERS

4.

	GUIDANCE FOR NEWLY ELIGIBLE SMALLER REPORTING COMPANIES

5.

	 HART OF SCALED ITEM REQUIREMENTS IN REGULATION S-K FOR
C
SMALLER REPORTING COMPANIES

INTRODUCTION
The Securities and Exchange Commission has adopted a new system of disclosure
rules for smaller companies filing periodic reports and registration statements with the
SEC. The new rules are effective February 4, 2008. They are scaled to reflect the
characteristics and needs of smaller companies and their investors. They replace the
disclosure requirements formerly in the SEC’s Regulation S-B, which applied to “small
business issuers.” The new rules are available to all “smaller reporting companies,” a
larger group of smaller companies.
•	 This compliance guide explains how current small business issuers and
other smaller companies newly eligible to use the SEC’s scaled disclosure
rules, primarily “non-accelerated filer” companies, can make the
changeover to the new rules with minimal effort and expense.
*

This guide was prepared by the staff of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as a “small entity
compliance guide” under Section 212 of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996,
as amended. The guide summarizes and explains rules adopted by the SEC, but is not a substitute for any
rule itself. Only the rule itself can provide complete and definitive information regarding its requirements.

1


•	 To review the changes made by the new rules in detail, you may view the
SEC’s release adopting the new rules at
http://www.sec.gov/rules/final.shtml. The release is entitled “Smaller
Reporting Company Regulatory Relief and Simplification,” Release No.
33-8876 (Dec. 19, 2007).
•	 You also may contact a staff attorney in the SEC’s Office of Small
Business Policy at (202) 551-3460 to discuss any questions you may have
regarding the rule changes.
•	 All companies qualifying as “smaller reporting companies” under the new
rules will be required to check the “Smaller Reporting Company” box on
the cover page of most filings made with the SEC under the new rules.
The checkbox requirement applies whether or not a company chooses to
take advantage of the scaled disclosure requirements.
The “smaller reporting company” category includes companies that qualified as
“small business issuers” before the new rules, as well as most companies that qualify as
“non-accelerated filers.” In general, companies that enter the system with less than $75
million in common equity public float qualify as smaller reporting companies.
Companies unable to calculate the public float typically qualify if they have less than $50
million in annual revenues upon entering the system.
Under the new system, smaller reporting companies will prepare and file their
SEC reports and registration statements using the same forms as other SEC reporting
companies, though the information required to be disclosed may differ. Eventually, there
will be no special “small business” forms like Forms 10-KSB and SB-2. Instead, smaller
reporting companies will use standard forms like Forms 10-K and S-1 used by other
companies. Regulation S-X contains the SEC requirements for financial statements,
while Regulation S-K contains the non-financial disclosure requirements. To locate the
scaled disclosure requirements, smaller reporting companies will refer to the special
paragraphs labeled “smaller reporting companies” in Regulation S-K.

1. QUALIFYING AS A “SMALLER REPORTING COMPANY”
Under the new rules, companies qualify as “smaller reporting companies,” and
therefore for scaled disclosure, if they (1) have a common equity public float of less than
$75 million or (2) are unable to calculate their public float and have annual revenue of
$50 million or less, upon entering the system. These standards differ from the standards
that governed eligibility for the SEC’s former small company disclosure requirements,
which were available to “small business issuers.” To qualify as a small business issuer, a
company needed to have (1) less than $25 million in public float and (2) less than $25

2


million in annual revenue. Because of the more generous standards, many more
companies qualify for scaled disclosure under the new rules.
When and how does a company calculate its public float?
All companies calculate their public float as of the last business
day of their second fiscal quarter. Most SEC reporting companies
already calculate this number to determine whether they need to
file annual and quarterly reports with the SEC as “accelerated
filers.” You calculate public float the same way you already do for
purposes of answering the item on the Form 10-KSB or Form 10-K
cover page that requires stating the aggregate market value of the
voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates.
Can foreign companies qualify as smaller reporting
companies?
Yes. The new rules permit foreign companies to qualify as smaller
reporting companies if they use domestic forms (instead of the
special “F” forms for foreign private issuers) and if they prepare
their financial statements in accordance with United States
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP).
Previously, the only foreign companies permitted to use SEC
scaled disclosure requirements were Canadian companies.
What types of companies are excluded from qualifying as
smaller reporting companies?
The new rules continue to exclude investment companies,
including business development companies, and asset-backed
issuers from eligibility for scaled treatment.

3


The following diagram may help you remember how the new standards work.

Smaller Reporting
Company

Company must have less than $75
million in public float, calculated as of
the end of its second fiscal quarter, to
qualify initially

2.

Alternative test for companies without
public float: less than $50 million in
revenue in their last fiscal year

COMPLIANCE DATE GUIDANCE FOR CURRENT SMALL BUSINESS
ISSUERS

In the past, small business issuers filed their registration statements and periodic reports
using SEC forms designated with the letters “SB.” Under the new rules, all companies,
large and small, will file on the standard Securities Act and Securities Exchange Act
forms. These forms are similar to the “SB” forms. Using the standard forms is not
expected to increase burdens for small business issuers.
When are companies required to stop filing annual and
quarterly reports on Form 10-KSB and 10-QSB and use Form
10-K and 10-Q instead?
You have a choice. Small business issuers will have the option to
file their next annual report for a fiscal year ending after
December 15, 2007 on Form 10-KSB or the standard Form 10-K.
Any quarterly reports due before this annual report may be filed on
Form 10-QSB or Form 10-Q. After the next annual report, all
future annual and quarterly reports must be on the standard forms
instead of the “SB” forms. This means that the date a small
business issuer will be required to file on standard forms depends
on its particular fiscal year end.

4


Examples
1.	 A small business issuer with a December 31, 2007 fiscal
year end has the option of filing its 2007 annual report on
either Form 10-KSB or Form 10-K when it files with the
Commission by March 2008. Forms 10-QSB and 10-KSB
will be unavailable to the company for reporting periods
after December 31, 2007.
Optional whether to use Form
10-KSB or Form 10-K for
annual report covering FY
ended December 31, 2007
filed by March 2008. 	

Quarterly report for first fiscal
quarter ended March 31, 2008
will be filed on Form 10-Q
due in May 2008.

2.	 A small business issuer with a November 30, 2008 fiscal
year end could file its 2008 quarterly reports on Form
10-QSB or Form 10-Q. Its 2008 annual report due in
February 2009 could be filed using either Form 10-K or
Form 10-KSB. Reports due after February 2009 must be
filed on standard forms.
Quarterly reports covering FY
2008 may be filed on
Form 10-QSB or 10-Q.

3.

Last optional Form 10-KSB
or Form 10-K will cover
annual report for FY ended
November 30, 2008 due in
February 2009.

	TRANSITION TO NON-SB FORMS – GUIDANCE FOR CURRENT SMALL
BUSINESS ISSUERS

Using Forms 10-K and 10-Q as a Smaller Reporting Company
If you currently are reporting as a small business issuer and are using the “SB” forms,
you may have questions on what you will need to do differently when you file your first
Form 10-K or Form 10-Q or a Form S-1.
Current Small Business Issuers’ Transition to Form 10-K
Current small business issuers will notice few differences when they prepare their first
standard Form 10-K to comply with the new rules. A minor difference is that the item
requirement numbering is different on the two forms in some instances. For example, the
Executive Compensation form item requirement appears as Item 10 of Form 10-KSB,
while on Form 10-K Executive Compensation appears as Item 11. The principal
5


differences these companies may notice on Form 10-K are that current small business
issuers will:
•	 no longer be required to state revenues for the most recent fiscal year on
the cover page;
•	 no longer be required to state their public float as of a specified date
within the past 60 days; instead the public float noted on the cover page of
the Form 10-K is calculated as of the last business day of the company’s
most recently completed second fiscal quarter;
•	 be able to choose to comply with the smaller reporting company scaled
item requirements or larger company item requirements (except Item 404)
in Regulation S-K on an item-by-item basis;
•	 be required to check a box on the cover page of the filing indicating their
status as smaller reporting company; and
•	 if they are a Canadian small business issuer, now be required to present
financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Small Business Issuers’ Transition to Form 10-Q
Most of the Form 10-QSB item requirements track the Form 10-Q item requirements
exactly. In some cases the item requirement numbering differs between the “SB” and
standard forms. For example, Items 3 and 3A(T) of Form 10-QSB appear in Items 4 and
4(T) of Form 10-Q.
Small Business Issuers with Pending Registration Statements on Form SB-2 or SB-1
Our company filed a registration statement on Form SB-2
before the new rules became effective and plans to file a pre- or
post-effective amendment after February 4, 2008, the effective
date of the new rules. Does the company have to file the
amendment on a form such as Form S-1 or S-3?
Yes, if you filed a registration statement on Form SB-2 or SB-1
before February 4, 2008 and file an amendment to that filing on or
after that date, you need to:
•	 File the amendment on a form such as Form S-1 or S-3,
depending on your eligibility for the particular form; and
•	 Elect whether to keep the Form SB-2 disclosure format in the
amendment for up to six months after the effective date of the
new rules, August 4, 2008.
If you do not file a pre-effective amendment to the Form SB-2
registration statement, it may be declared effective by the SEC

6


staff after the effective date of the new rules without the need to
file an amendment to transition to a non “SB” Securities Act form.
Example
If you filed a Form SB-2 registration statement on November 15,
2007 and filed a pre-effective amendment to that filing on or after
February 4, 2008, you would be required to file your amendment
as a Form S-1/A filing, the “A” signifying an amendment on Form
S-1. At your option, you would be able to retain the disclosure
format of Form SB-2 in the Form S-1/A until August 4, 2008.
Small Business Issuers Filing New Securities Act Registration Statements
Our company reports as a small business issuer but is
preparing to file a Securities Act registration statement after
the effective date of the new rules. What will the company
need to do now that Forms SB-2 and SB-1 are no longer
available for Securities Act registration statements?
Most companies that formerly filed on Form SB-2 for securities
offerings will use Form S-1. The following chart matches the
Form SB-2 item requirements with those of Form S-1. Note that
Items 1 to 8 of Form SB-2 are identical to Items 1 to 8 of Form
S-1.

7


4.

Form SB-2
Item 9 (Item 103-Legal Proceedings)

Form S-1
Item 11(c)

Item 10 (Directors, Executive Officers, Promoters and
Control Persons)

Item 11(k)

Item 11 (Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management)

Item 11(m)

Item 12 (Description of Securities)

Item 9

Item 13 (Interest of Named Experts and Counsel)

Item 10

Item 14 (Disclosure of Commission Position of
Indemnification for Securities Act Liabilities)

Item 12A

Item 15 (Organization within Last Five Years)

Item 11(n)

Item 16 (Description of Business)

Item 11(a)

Item 17 (Management’s Discussion and Analysis or Plan of
Operation)

Item 11(h)

Item 18 (Description of Property)

Item 11(b)

Item 19 (Certain Relationships and Related Transactions)

Item 11(n)

Item 20 (Market for Common Equity and Related
Stockholder Matters)

Item 11(d)

Item 21 (Executive Compensation)

Item 11(l)

Item 22 (Financial Statements)

Item 16

Item 23 (Changes in Disagreements With Accountants on
Accounting and Financial Disclosure)

Item 11(i)

Item 24 (Indemnification of Directors and Officers)

Item 14

Item 25 (Other Expenses and Issuance and Distribution)

Item 13

Item 26 (Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities)

Item 15

Item 27 (Exhibits)

Item 16

Item 28 (Undertakings)

Item 17

GUIDANCE FOR NEWLY ELIGIBLE SMALLER REPORTING COMPANIES

Reporting companies that were not small business issuers before the effective date of the
new rules need to determine whether they qualify as smaller reporting companies now.
They may do so by calculating their public float as of the last business day of their most
recently completed second fiscal quarter or, for companies unable to calculate their
public float, checking their annual revenue for the fiscal year before the calculation date.

8


If a company qualifies, it is required to check the smaller reporting company box on the
cover of any registration statement or periodic report it files with the SEC. Smaller
reporting companies will maintain that status until the year after the next calculation date.
Our company is planning to file a registration statement for an
initial public offering. How do we calculate the company’s
public float?
A non-reporting company calculates public float based on three
components:
•	 its bona fide estimated offering price per share at the time
of filing the registration statement;
•	 the number of shares of common stock outstanding that are
held by non-affiliates before the offering; and
•	 the number of shares of common stock to be sold at the
estimated offering price.
Example
A company registers 7,000,000 shares in its initial public offering
and has 25,000,000 shares of common stock outstanding held by
non-affiliates before the offering.
7,000,000 + 25,000,000 = 32,000,000 shares of common
stock
32,000,000 x offering price per share = IPO public float
Multiply 32,000,000 shares by the estimated offering price per
share in the initial public offering. If the total is less than $75
million, then the company qualifies to file the registration
statement as a smaller reporting company.
What happens if a company files its IPO registration
statement, calculates its public float, and does not qualify as a
smaller reporting company but, after the original filing, the
offering price and number of shares being offered decreases
such that it would qualify as a smaller reporting company? If
the company provided the larger company disclosure at the
time of filing the IPO registration statement, but it turns out
the company qualifies as a smaller reporting company, can it
change its disclosure to comply with the scaled disclosure
requirements?

9


The company may recalculate its public float at the time it
completes the initial public offering to determine whether it then
qualifies for scaled disclosure reporting in periodic reports due
after the initial public offering registration statement. But the
company is not required to do so.
A smaller reporting company that is no longer eligible for scaled disclosure will no
longer be permitted to file registration statements or periodic reports using scaled
disclosure. This company may finish reporting as a smaller reporting company for the
rest of the fiscal year, including in its annual report on Form 10-K. The company must
provide the standard non-scaled disclosure in the first quarterly report for the new fiscal
year following the eligibility determination date.
A reporting company that newly qualifies as a smaller reporting company is
permitted to provide scaled disclosure as soon as it wishes to do so –– even in the next
quarterly report on Form 10-Q it files covering the second fiscal quarter in which the
company made its new eligibility determination.
A reporting company without a calculable public float determines its eligibility as a
smaller reporting company based on its annual revenues in the most recent fiscal year
completed before the last business day of the second fiscal quarter. This company also is
permitted to provide scaled disclosure as soon as it wishes to do so –– even in the next
Form 10-Q it files after that date.
For purposes of public float, our company was considered a
larger company, but when we calculated the company’s public
float on the last business day of the second fiscal quarter, the
company became eligible to be a smaller reporting company.
When is the company permitted to start filing scaled
disclosure?
The company may start providing scaled disclosure in the quarterly
report on Form 10-Q that covers the second fiscal quarter of the
public float determination date.
Example
A larger reporting company with a fiscal year end of December 31,
2008 that qualified to be a smaller reporting company as of the last
business day of June 2008 would be permitted to provide scaled
disclosure beginning with the quarterly report on Form 10-Q for
the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 2008, which would be due in
August 2008.

10


Our company is a smaller reporting company, but when we
calculated our public float as of the last day of the second fiscal
quarter, we discovered we no longer qualified as a smaller
reporting company. When does the company start filing
disclosure based on the non-scaled Regulation S-K item
requirements?
The company needs to begin providing non-scaled, larger company
disclosure in the quarterly report for the first fiscal quarter
following the fiscal year of the public float determination date.
Example
On the last business day of its second fiscal quarter in 2008, a
smaller reporting company with a fiscal year end of December 31,
2008 determined that its public float exceeded $75 million as of
the end of that day. This company is required to transition out of
the scaled disclosure system into the larger company disclosure
system by the time it files its quarterly report on Form 10-Q
covering the first fiscal quarter of fiscal year 2009, which would be
due in May 2009.

5.

CHART OF SCALED DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS AVAILABLE TO
SMALLER REPORTING COMPANIES

Smaller reporting companies may choose to comply with scaled or non-scaled financial
and non-financial item requirements on an item-by-item basis in any one filing. Where
the smaller reporting company requirement is more rigorous, however, the company must
meet the more rigorous standard. Currently, the smaller reporting company requirements
under Item 404 of Regulation S-K are the only place where the scaled requirements can
be more rigorous than the larger company standard.

11


Table of Regulation S-K Items Containing Scaled Disclosure Provisions Applicable to 

Smaller Reporting Companies 

Item 101 Description of business

Item 301

Market price of and dividends on
registrant’s common equity and related
stockholder matters
Selected financial data

Item 302

Supplementary financial information

Item 303

Management’s discussion and analysis
of financial condition and results of
operations
Quantitative and qualitative disclosures
about market risk
Executive compensation

Item 201

Item 305
Item 402
Item 404
Item 407

Transactions with related persons,
promoters and certain control persons
Corporate governance

Item 504

Prospectus summary, risk factors, and
ratio of earnings to fixed charges
Use of proceeds

Item 601

Exhibits

Item 503

Risk Factor Disclosure in Filings on Exchange Act Forms. Smaller reporting
companies are not required to provide risk factor disclosure in Forms 10, 10-K and 10-Q.
Financial Statement Requirements. Smaller reporting companies will refer to new
Article 8 of Regulation S-X, which replaces Item 310 of Regulation S-B, for their
financial statement requirements. The new rules require smaller reporting companies to
provide two years of comparative audited balance sheet data in annual financial
statements, rather than the one year that was previously required under Regulation S-B.

12


