Report Pursuant to Section 704 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

Table of Contents
I.

Executive Summary

II.

The Statutory Language

III.

Objectives, Scope and Methodology

IV.

Results of the Study - Areas of Reporting Most Susceptible to Fraud
A.

Improper Revenue Recognition
1.
Overview of Findings
2.
Discussion of Representative Cases and Description of Issues
a.
Improper Timing of Revenue Recognition
i.
Holding Books Open After Close of a Reporting
Period
ii.
Bill-and-Hold, Consignment Sales, and Other
Contingency Sales
iii.
Multiple Element Contracts or Bundled Contracts
b.
Fictitious Revenue
c.
Improper Valuation of Revenue
3.
Analysis and Conclusions

B.

Improper Expense Recognition
1.
Overview of Findings
2.
Discussion of Representative Cases and Description of Issues
a.
Improper Capitalization/Deferral - Failure to Record
Expenses or Losses
b.
Overstating Ending Inventory Values
c.
Improper Use of Restructuring and Other Liability
Reserves
d.
Understating Reserves for Bad Debts and Loan Losses
e.
Failure to Record Asset Impairments
3.
Analysis and Conclusions

C.

Improper Accounting in Connection with Business Combinations
1.
Overview of Findings
2.
Discussion of Representative Cases and Description of Issues
a.
Improper Asset Valuation
b.
Improper Use of Merger Reserves
c.
Inappropriate Application of Purchase/Pooling Methods
3.
Analysis and Conclusions

D.

Other Areas of Improper Accounting
1.
Overview of Findings
2.
Discussion of Representative Cases and Description of Issues

a.

3.
V.

VI.

VII.

Inadequate Disclosures in Management Discussion and
Analysis (“MD&A”) and Elsewhere in Issuer Filings
b.
Failure to Disclose Related Party Transactions
c.
Inappropriate Accounting for Non-monetary and Roundtrip
Transactions
d.
Improper Accounting for Foreign Payments in Violation of
the FCPA
e.
Improper Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
f.
Improper Use of Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
Analysis and Conclusions

Results of the Study - Persons Involved in Financial Reporting Violations
A.

Overview of Findings

B.

The Individuals Charged
1.
Senior Management
2.
Mid-Level Management
3.
Counsel
4.
Customers

Results of the Study - The Role of the Auditors
A.

Overview of Findings

B.

The Charges in Cases against Auditors

C.

The Audit Failures

D.

Size of Audit Firms Where Audit Failures Occurred

E.

Discussion of Representative Cases

F.

Analysis and Conclusions

G.

Provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley Act Applying to Auditors

Proposals Based on the Study
A.

Pre-Sarbanes-Oxley Enforcement Tools

B.

Provisions of Sarbanes-Oxley Act

2

C.

VIII.

Proposals
1.
Uniform Reporting of Restatements
2.
Issuing an Interpretive Release, or Adopting Revisions to
Commission Rules, on Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations
3.
Production of Internal Reports Without Waiver of Privilege
4.
Access to Grand Jury Materials
5.
Nationwide Service of Process for Testimony in Commission
Litigation

Conclusion

Exhibit A - Listing of Actions Filed

3

Report Pursuant to Section 704 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002
I.

Executive Summary1

The past year has been marked by a series of restatements of financial statements
by prominent corporations resulting in billions of dollars lost by investors. To address
concerns raised by these restatements, and to restore public trust in the U.S. financial
markets, Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“the Sarbanes-Oxley Act”),
which the President signed into law on July 30, 2002.2 The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, among
other things, creates an independent accounting oversight board; provides more
enforcement tools to the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”); restricts
non-audit services by accounting firms; holds corporate executives accountable for the
accuracy of financial reports; increases criminal penalties for securities fraud; and
provides for the separation of investment banking and investment analysis.
Section 704 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act directs the Commission to study
enforcement actions over the five years preceding its enactment in order to identify areas
of issuer financial reporting that are most susceptible to fraud, inappropriate
manipulation, or inappropriate earnings management (the “Study”). In addition, Section
704 directs the Commission to report its findings to Congress, including a discussion of
recommended regulation or legislation (the “Report”). This Study involved the review of
all of the Commission’s enforcement actions filed during the period July 31, 1997 though
July 30, 2002 (the “Study period”) that were based on improper issuer financial reporting,
fraud, audit failure, or auditor independence violations.
Over the Study period, the Commission filed 515 enforcement actions for
financial reporting and disclosure violations arising out of 227 Division of Enforcement
investigations3 (these investigations are referred to hereafter as “enforcement matters”).4
See Exhibit A for a listing of actions filed during this period.
The 515 actions included 869 named parties, consisting of 164 entities and 705
individuals.5 During the Study period, the number of enforcement actions involving
issuer financial reporting violations or fraud increased from 91 in the first year of the

1

References to accounting standards are for informational purposes only, and should not be construed as
recitations of generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) or interpretations by the Commission.
2
Corporate and Auditing and Accountability, Responsibility, and Transparency Act of 2002, Pub.L. No.
107-204.
3
Some of the actions brought during the Study period involved conduct that occurred before the Study
period.
4
During the same time period, the Commission filed a total of 2508 enforcement actions, arising out of
1390 investigations.
5
More than one action may result from a particular investigation. Although most of the enforcement
matters related to one issuer, there were matters involving multiple issuers.

Study to 149 in the last year of the Study.6 Of these 515 actions, 186 were federal civil
actions and 329 were administrative proceedings.7 Of the 869 named parties, the
Commission charged 593 with fraud in connection with the reporting violations: 511
individuals, and 82 entities.
Study Year
Year One
Year Two
Year Three
Year Four
Year Five

Number of Actions Involving Issuer
Financial Reporting Violations
91
60
110
105
149

The Study found that the Commission brought the greatest number of actions in
the area of improper revenue recognition: 126 of the 227 enforcement matters involved
such conduct, including the fraudulent reporting of fictitious sales, improper timing of
revenue recognition, and improper valuation of revenue.8 One hundred one enforcement
matters involved improper expense recognition, including improper capitalization or
deferral of expenses, improper use of reserves, and other understatement of expenses.
Additionally, 23 enforcement matters involved improper accounting for business
combinations. One hundred thirty-seven enforcement matters involved other accounting
and reporting issues, such as inadequate Management’s Discussion and Analysis
(“MD&A”) disclosure and improper use of off-balance sheet arrangements. In
approximately 10% of the enforcement matters, the accounting or disclosure issue was
reflected in financial statements that were included in an issuer’s registration statement
filed with the Commission in connection with an Initial Public Offering (“IPO”).
It should be noted that the numbers discussed in this Report reflect historical data
on actions filed in the last five years, and may not necessarily reflect their relative
importance in the Enforcement program in the future. For example, off-balance sheet
arrangements and non-GAAP financial measures are relatively new areas of enforcement.
The numbers do not necessarily reflect the magnitude and impact that these areas of
conduct may have on investors in the future.
The Study revealed that the majority of the persons held responsible for the
accounting violations were members of issuer senior management. The Study found that
157 of the 227 enforcement matters involved charges against at least one senior manager.
In these enforcement matters, charges were brought against 75 Chairmen of the Board,
111 Chief Executive Officers (“CEOs”), 111 Presidents, 105 Chief Financial Officers
6

For purposes of the Study, Year One is July 31, 1997-July 30, 1998; Year Two is July 31, 1998-July 30,
1999; Year Three is July 31, 1999-July 30, 2000; Year Four is July 31, 2000-July 30, 2001; and Year Five
is July 31, 2001-July 30, 2002.
7
Included in the 329 administrative proceedings is one Report of Investigation pursuant to Section 21(a) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“21(a) Report of Investigation”).
8
Most of the 227 enforcement matters involved more than one type of improper conduct. Because of this
overlap, it would not be meaningful to aggregate these numbers.

2

(“CFOs”), 21 Chief Operating Officers (“COOs”), 16 Chief Accounting Officers
(“CAOs”), and 27 Vice Presidents (“VPs”) of Finance.9 In addition, the Study
determined that the Commission brought charges against 18 auditing firms and 89
individual auditors. The Study found that violations by auditors were not limited to any
particular size of firm, and resulted largely from auditors failing to gain sufficient
evidence to support the issuer’s accounting, failing to exercise the appropriate level of
skepticism in responding to red flags, and failing to maintain independence.
The Study concluded that 135 issuers in the 227 enforcement matters filed
restatements that were related to conduct investigated in the enforcement matters.10 Of
these restatements, the majority involved either revenue or expense recognition.
Section 704 directs the Commission to include in this Report a discussion of
recommended steps to address concerns identified by this Study. The Sarbanes-Oxley
Act provides numerous provisions, including the creation of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board, that were designed to address many of the concerns
addressed in this Report. This Report contains a few recommendations for additional
reforms primarily designed to aid the Commission in enforcing the federal securities laws
in the financial reporting and issuer disclosure area. Specifically, the Commission
recommends addressing two areas of issuer disclosure: the uniform reporting of
restatements of financial statements, and improved MD&A disclosure. In addition, based
on this Report, the Commission recommends the enactment of legislation to: (1) allow
companies to produce internal reports and other documents pertaining to investigations
without waiving any privileges; (2) provide access by Commission staff to grand jury
materials; and (3) provide for nationwide service of process for testimony in Commission
litigation.
II.

The Statutory Language

Section 704 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is entitled, “Study of Enforcement
Actions” and states as follows:
(a) Study Required. – The Commission shall review and analyze all
enforcement actions by the Commission involving violations of reporting
requirements imposed under the securities laws, and restatements of financial
statements, over the 5-year period preceding the date of enactment of the Act, to
identify areas of reporting that are most susceptible to fraud, inappropriate
manipulation, or inappropriate earnings management, such as revenue recognition
and the accounting treatment of off-balance sheet special purpose entities.

9

Please note that the same individual can have multiple titles (e.g. President and CEO).
Among the reasons that issuers did not restate their financial statements were: (1) the issuer filed for
bankruptcy or otherwise became defunct; (2) the issuer was not a public company that filed with the
Commission (e.g., limited partnerships); (3) the enforcement action did not involve conduct by the issuer,
such as in some auditor independence cases; (4) the misrepresentations were contained in press releases or
websites, and not in public filings; and (5) the improper financial statements were filed more than three
years before the Commission’s action against the issuer.

10

3

(b) Report Required. – The Commission shall report its findings to the
Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representative and the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, not later than
180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall use such findings to
revise its rules and regulations, as necessary. The report shall include a
discussion of regulatory or legislative steps that are recommended or that may be
necessary to address concerns identified in the Study.
III.

Objectives, Scope and Methodology

For purposes of this Study, Commission staff (“staff”) reviewed and analyzed the
actions filed by the Commission during the Study period that were identified in the
Commission’s annual reports as “Issuer Financial Disclosure” cases. These cases
typically involve violations of generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) in an
issuer’s financial statements or inadequate disclosures in the MD&A or elsewhere in the
issuer’s filing. They also include actions brought against issuers’ auditors for faulty
auditing or independence violations.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act calls for the study of “enforcement actions by the
Commission involving violations of reporting requirements imposed under the securities
laws, and restatements of financial statements.” The United States General Accounting
Office (“GAO”) issued a report in October 2002 studying restatements. In this report, the
GAO discussed the inherent difficulty in identifying restatements, the foremost reason
being the lack of a comprehensive, authoritative database of restatements.11 Because of
the inherent limitations in identifying all relevant restatements, the staff determined that it
would study all enforcement matters related to issuer financial reporting during the Study
period, regardless of whether the matter resulted from or was related to an issuer
restatement. The staff identified 135 issuers that filed restatements relating to the
accounting and reporting issues identified in the enforcement matters.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act directs the Commission to “identify areas of reporting
that are most susceptible to fraud, inappropriate manipulation, or inappropriate earnings
11

The staff used a number of methods to determine whether a restatement relating to one of the identified
enforcement matters occurred. The staff initially reviewed Commission internal documents to attempt to
determine whether there had been a restatement. The staff then reviewed the Commission’s online
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”) to determine whether the issuer
made any amended filings during or after the period of the identified accounting or reporting issue. The
Commission’s EDGAR database, however, only dates back to filings made in 1993 and after. Therefore
restatements relating to accounting issues that preceded 1993 could not be identified using EDGAR. In
addition, not all documents filed with the Commission by public companies were available on EDGAR.
Companies were phased in to EDGAR filing over a three-year period, ended May 6, 1996. As of that date,
all public domestic companies were required to make their filings on EDGAR, except for filings made on
paper because of a hardship exemption. Also, issuers do not always file amended Forms 10-K and 10-Q
when there is a restatement. Depending upon the timing of the restatement, an issuer may include the
restated financial statements for earlier periods in a current periodic filing or in a Form 8-K. Next, the staff
performed keyword searches on the LexisNexis Research System. The staff then analyzed these
amendments and LexisNexis hits to determine if they related to a restatement for the particular accounting
or reporting issue identified in the enforcement matter.

4

management. . . .” To this end, the staff summarized the accounting and reporting issues
identified in each enforcement matter and classified them into four major categories: (1)
revenue recognition; (2) expense or cost recognition; (3) acquisition or merger related;
and (4) “other” conduct, including related party transactions, and improper accounting for
foreign payments in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”). The staff
further divided each of these categories into subcategories for purposes of this analysis.12
The staff also reviewed and classified enforcement matters involving auditor misconduct.
Most enforcement matters identified multiple accounting or reporting issues. In
these cases, the staff included the investigation in each applicable category. Therefore,
the same enforcement matter may be counted in multiple discussions of accounting and
reporting issues.
The remaining sections of this Report contain case highlights illustrating
examples of the accounting issues being discussed. Each of these highlights indicates
whether or not the issuer restated its financial statements or made other amendments to its
filings pertaining to the enforcement matter being discussed.13
IV.

Results of Study - Areas of Reporting Most Susceptible to Fraud

The Study identified several areas of reporting in the 227 enforcement matters
reviewed that have been susceptible to fraud and other improper conduct: (1) improper
revenue recognition; (2) improper expense recognition; (3) improper accounting in
connection with business combinations; and (4) “other” conduct, including inadequate
disclosures in Management Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) and elsewhere in issuer
filings; failure to disclose related party transactions; inappropriate accounting for nonmonetary and roundtrip transactions; improper accounting for foreign payments in
violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”); improper use of off-balance
sheet arrangements; and improper use of non-GAAP financial measures. The following
chart summarizes the number of enforcement matters that included conduct in each of
these categories.14

12

For example, revenue recognition was further divided into the following subcategories: (1) fictitious
sales or transactions; (2) improper timing of revenue recognition; and (3) valuation issues such as sales
returns.
13
As previously mentioned, most enforcement matters included in the Study identified multiple accounting
or reporting issues. The issuer may have restated for one or more, but not all, of the identified issues. A
statement in the case highlights indicating that the issuer restated its financial statements means that the
issuer restated for at least one of the issues identified in the Study; however, it may not necessarily mean
that the issuer restated for the accounting or reporting issue being discussed in that particular highlight.
14
Most of the 227 enforcement matters involved more than one type of improper conduct. Because of this
overlap, it would not be meaningful to aggregate these numbers.

5

Improper Accounting Practice
Improper Revenue Recognition
Improper Expense Recognition
Improper Accounting in Connection with
Business Combinations
Other Accounting and Reporting Issues:
Inadequate Disclosures in MD&A and
Elsewhere
Failure to Disclose Related Party
Transactions
Inappropriate Accounting for Nonmonetary and Roundtrip Transactions
Improper Accounting for Foreign
Payments in Violation of the FCPA
Improper Use of Off-balance Sheet
Arrangements
Improper use of Non-GAAP Financial
Measures
A.

Number of Enforcement Matters
Involving Each Practice
126
101
23
130
43
23
19
6
3
2

Improper Revenue Recognition
1.

Overview of Findings

Under GAAP, revenue should not be recognized until it is realized or realizable
and earned. Issues concerning revenue recognition have dominated financial fraud cases.
A March 1999 report sponsored by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
(“COSO”) of the Treadway Commission, Fraudulent Financial Reporting: 1987-1997 An
Analysis of U. S. Public Companies, indicated that over half of financial reporting frauds
in that study involved overstating revenue. When it enacted Section 704 of the SarbanesOxley Act, Congress specifically required the Commission to study the role of revenue
recognition in enforcement matters during the Study period.
The Commission’s accounting enforcement matters reflect the prevalence of
revenue recognition as a tool for fraud. Of the 227 enforcement matters studied, 126
involved improper revenue recognition. An analysis of these enforcement matters
revealed that 106 involved fraud charges (Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”)15 and/or Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act”)16), with the balance covering reporting, books and records and/or
internal controls violations (Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and (B), and/or 13(b)(5) of the

15
16

15 U.S.C. § 77a et seq. (1933).
15 U.S.C. § 78a et seq. (1934).

6

Exchange Act, respectively). Of the 126 enforcement matters involving improper
revenue recognition, 94 issuers restated their financial statements.
The chart below summarizes the major improper revenue recognition practices
used by public companies in Commission enforcement matters during the Study period.
Improper Revenue Recognition Practices

Number of Enforcement Matters
Involving Each Practice17
81
80
21

Improperly Timed Revenue Recognition
Fictitious Revenue
Improper Valuation

The Study found that senior management was implicated in 104 of the 126
enforcement matters involving revenue recognition. Specifically, the Study found that 55
Chairmen of the Board, 75 CEOs, 77 Presidents, 81 CFOs, 20 COOs, 10 CAOs, and 22
VPs of Finance were charged in such enforcement matters. In addition, the Commission
charged 40 Controllers for their involvement in these enforcement matters.18
2.

Discussion of Representative Cases and Description of Issues

As explained more fully below, the Study identified three major problem areas for
improper revenue recognition including: (1) improper timing of revenue recognition
(including the existence of contingencies which would preclude revenue recognition until
the contingency is resolved); (2) fictitious revenue; and (3) improper valuation for
purposes of revenue recognition.
a.

Improper Timing of Revenue Recognition

The Study found that 81 enforcement matters involved improper timing of
revenue recognition. Accounting principles require that revenue should only be
recognized once it has been both earned and realized. These revenue recognition cases
commonly involved an issuer accelerating revenue from future periods to the current
period. These enforcement matters included the following types of improper conduct:
(1) holding books open after the close of a reporting period; (2) improper recognition of
the following transactions involving third parties: “bill and hold” sales, consignment
sales, side letter agreements, and other contingency sales; and (3) improper recognition of
revenue from multiple element or bundled contracts.

17

In total, the Commission brought 126 enforcement matters involving improper revenue recognition.
Many enforcement matters involved a company using multiple improper revenue recognition schemes.
Therefore, the total number of these improper revenue recognition practices exceeds the number of
enforcement matters with revenue recognition issues.
18
Some of these individuals have multiple titles.

7

i.

Holding Books Open After Close of a Reporting
Period

The Study identified 25 enforcement matters involving the failure of issuers to
close their books properly at the close of a reporting period. Generally, a company’s
books for any reporting period should only include revenues realized and earned in that
period.
Case Highlights

19
20

•

Sirena Apparel Group, Inc. – The Commission alleged that the
company’s CEO and CFO materially overstated Sirena's revenue by $3.6
million (or 13%) and earnings by $1.3 million (or 30%). The complaint
alleged that the CEO and CFO instructed Sirena personnel to hold open
the March 1999 fiscal quarter until Sirena had reached its sales target for
that period, by resetting the date on Sirena's computer clock to March 30
or March 31. This manipulation allowed the April shipments to be
recorded as March revenue. The CEO and CFO also ordered Sirena
personnel to create false shipping records to conceal their scheme.19 On
June 25, 1999, Sirena filed for bankruptcy. On August 16, 2000, the
company filed a Form 15 with the Commission suspending its duty to file
reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The company did not
restate its financial statements relating to this matter.

•

Sensormatic Electronics Corporation – The Commission charged the
company and three senior officers with several different accounting frauds
including recording revenue in one quarter from products shipped in the
next quarter. At the end of each quarter, Sensormatic turned back its
computer clock that recorded and dated shipments so that out-of-period
shipments, and consequently revenue, would be recorded in the prior
quarter.20 On or about October 11, 1995, the company filed amended
financial statements for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 1995.

Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release (“A.A.E.R.”) No. 1325 (September 27, 2000).
A.A.E.R. No. 1017 (March 25, 1998).

8

ii.

Bill-and-Hold, Consignment Sales, and Other
Contingency Sales

There were 49 enforcement matters involving premature recognition of revenue
during the Study period, including bill-and-hold sales,21 consignment sales,22 side letter
agreements23 and other contingency sales. The accounting for these transactions
generally failed to meet the criteria under GAAP for recognizing revenue because the
seller had not actually assumed the risks and rewards of ownership, the terms of the sale
were modified or the revenue was otherwise not realized (or realizable) and earned.
Case Highlights
•

Sunbeam Corporation – This action involved, among other things,
allegations that Sunbeam engaged in accounting fraud by improperly
recognizing bill-and-hold and contingency sale transactions. The
Commission alleged that Sunbeam gave financial incentives to its
customers to write purchase orders before they needed the goods, and
offered to hold the product until delivery was requested and typically
covered related costs. The Commission alleged that Sunbeam improperly
recorded contingent sales as revenue. Just before the close of a quarter,
Sunbeam allegedly booked revenue and income from purported sales to
wholesalers, who incurred no expenses, accepted no ownership risks, and
had the right to return unsold products.24 On or about November 12, 1998,
the company filed amended financial statements covering the period
October 1, 1996 through March 31, 1998.

•

McKesson HBOC Inc. – The Commission brought fraud charges against
senior management for engaging in a massive fraud to inflate revenue and
net income by hiding contingencies – such as rights to cancel or, in some
cases, continuing negotiations of relevant terms – related to software sales

21

Improper accounting for bill-and-hold transactions usually involves the recording of revenue from a sale,
even though the customer has not taken title of the product and assumed the risks and rewards of ownership
of the products specified in the customer's purchase order or sales agreement. In a typical bill-and-hold
transaction, the seller does not ship the product or ships it to a delivery site other than the customer’s site.
These transactions may be recognized legitimately under GAAP when special criteria are met, including
being done pursuant to the buyer’s request. The Study identified 14 enforcement matters involving the
improper financial reporting of bill-and-hold transactions.
22
In a consignment sale, the product is shipped to a dealer who pays only for what is sold and who may
return what is unsold. Generally, revenue should not be recognized when a product is shipped from one
party to another on a consignment basis. The consignor should recognize revenue from consignment
transactions when the consignee sells the product. The Study identified 14 enforcement matters involving
consignment sales.
23
A typical side letter accounting fraud case involves a seller changing the terms and conditions, either
orally or in writing, of a facially valid sale to a customer. The side agreements typically result in improper
revenue recognition. The Study identified 25 enforcement matters involving side letters.
24
A.A.E.R. No. 1393 (May 15, 2001).

9

contracts in side letters.25 On or about July 14, 1999, McKesson filed
amended financial statements covering the period April 1, 1996 through
March 31, 1999.
iii.

Multiple Element Contracts or Bundled
Contracts

Some enforcement matters involving revenue recognition present more complex
issues, including improper accounting for multiple element or bundled contracts. The
Study identified three enforcement matters involving multiple element or bundled
contracts.
Case Highlights

25
26
27

•

Xerox Corporation – The Commission alleged that Xerox used a variety
of accounting schemes involving its lease arrangements. Under these
arrangements, the revenue stream from Xerox's customer leases typically
had three components: the value of the equipment; the value of Xerox’s
obligation to service the equipment over the life of the lease; and financing
revenue that Xerox received on deferred payments. Under GAAP, Xerox
could recognize revenue from the equipment at the beginning of the lease
if certain requirements were met, but was required to recognize revenue
from servicing and financing over the course of the entire lease, or as
those services were performed and that revenue earned. According to the
complaint, Xerox relied on accounting actions to improperly shift finance
and service lease revenues to the equipment, so that a greater portion of
lease revenues could be recognized immediately.26 On or about July 11,
2002, Xerox filed amended financial statements covering the period
January 1, 1997 through December 31, 2000.

•

MicroStrategy, Inc.27 – The Commission alleged that MicroStrategy
engaged in the premature recognition of revenue in connection with
multiple element deals in which significant services or future products to
be provided by MicroStrategy were not separable from the upfront sale of
a license to its existing software products. MicroStrategy allegedly
negotiated a $4.5 million transaction to provide software licenses,
consulting and development services, and a stock purchase warrant to a
buyer. The services were, in part, to develop software applications for the
MicroStrategy software. The overwhelming majority of the software
licenses purchased by the buyer were for use with software applications
that were not yet developed. Although the product and the service
elements were interdependent, MicroStrategy accounted for the software
product element as though it were separate from the service and warrant

A.A.E.R. No. 1467 (October 15, 2001).
A.A.E.R. No. 1542 (April 11, 2002).
A.A.E.R. No. 1350 (December 14, 2000); A.A.E.R No. 1352 (December 14, 2000).

10

obligations. MicroStrategy recognized the entire $4.5 million received in
the transaction as software product license revenue, allocating no revenue
to the extensive service obligations or the warrant.28 On or about April 13,
2000, the company filed amended financial statements covering the period
January 1, 1997 through December 31, 1999.
b.

Fictitious Revenue

The Study found that 80 enforcement matters involved fictitious revenue. The
manipulation of revenue was accomplished through, among other means, the falsification
of sales documents, side agreements with customers that were not recorded, and top-side
adjustments29 by senior management.
Case Highlights
•

Cendant Corporation30 – The Commission alleged that for more than
twelve years CUC senior management made top-side adjustments which
artificially inflated operating income at the company by directing changes
to CUC’s quarterly results. Defendants allegedly reviewed and managed
schedules listing fraudulent adjustments to be made to CUC’s quarterly
and annual financial statements. As a result of these inappropriate topside adjustments and other fraud, pre-tax operating income reported to the
public by CUC was inflated by an aggregate amount of over $500 million
for the period 1995 through 1997 alone.31 On or about September 29,
1998, the company filed amended financial statements covering the period
January 1, 1995 through June 30, 1998.

•

Regal Communications Corporation – The Commission alleged that
Regal’s upper management falsified the company’s filings. Allegedly, the
CFO caused the accounting staff to record fictitious business revenues and
receivables into the company’s general ledger. To further the scheme, the
CEO allegedly supported the fictitious entries with false or misleading
sales documents and bank records. The CFO and CEO then paid many of
the false receivables with the company’s money, which had been funneled

28

“Generally for accounting purposes, product revenue is recognized immediately, while revenue from
services is recognized as the services are provided. Consistent with SOP 97-2, in a transaction with
software and service elements, revenue is recognized on the software only if the software sale is separable
from the sale of services and only after revenue attributable to the service element is deducted.” A.A.E.R.
1350 (December 14, 2000).
29
Top-side adjustments are accounting entries that are not recorded in a company's normal system of
accounting books and records, but are included in the financial statements before publication, typically by
senior corporate executives. These entries may be appropriately used to make last minute corrections to the
financial statements (in which case the accounting books and records are updated for them also), but are
sometimes inappropriately used to make fraudulent adjustments that are hidden from those with access to
the accounting books and records.
30
Cendant Corporation is the company that resulted from a December 1997 merger between CUC
International, Inc. and HFS Incorporated. As alleged by the Commission, the fraud arose at CUC.
31
A.A.E.R. No. 1372 (Feb. 28, 2001).

11

through their own private companies in order to give the appearance of
legitimate transactions. The alleged fraud inflated Regal’s revenues and
receivables, and consequently caused Regal’s recorded income and assets
to be materially overstated in Commission filings.32 The company
declared bankruptcy in September 1994 and did not file a restatement.
c.

Improper Valuation of Revenue

In addition to improper timing of revenue recognition and fictitious revenue, the
Study found that another problem area involved the improper valuation of revenue.
Unlike the contingent sales situations discussed above, a sale does occur, but there may
be terms, such as rights of return, that affect the appropriate value of revenue recognized
from the sale. Improper accounting practices in this area involve the failure to take these
terms into account in accordance with GAAP. There were 21 enforcement matters
relating to improper valuation of revenue.
Case Highlights
•

Insignia Solutions PLC – The Commission found that, because Insignia
generally permitted rights of return, it recognized allowances for estimated
future returns and exchanges. In order to implement this policy, Insignia
endeavored to keep track of inventory held by its principal distributors and
resellers. The Commission found that the fraudulent revenue recognition
scheme involved the circumvention of this system for monitoring
inventory in the hands of Insignia’s distributors and resellers. The sales
manager, at the direction of the sales vice president, signed side letter
agreements with a distributor and the reseller which allowed liberal return
rights for certain shipments. The supervisors instructed a subordinate to
report only 10% of the inventory held by the reseller. This practice had
the effect of decreasing Insignia’s allowance for product returns, thereby
increasing reported revenue.33 On or about February 28, 1997, the
company filed amended financial statements covering the period January
1, 1996 through June 30, 1996.
3.

Analysis and Conclusions

The Study found that revenue recognition is an area that is highly susceptible to
financial reporting violations. Of the 227 enforcement matters during the Study period,
126 involved some form of improper revenue recognition. The majority of these
enforcement matters involved improper timing (81 of 126 enforcement matters) and
fictitious revenue (80 of 126 enforcement matters). These violations were accomplished
primarily through the falsification of documents, such as sales invoices or side letters,
and/or top-side adjustments. At least one representative of senior management was
charged in 104 of the 126 enforcement matters. This conduct was undertaken for a
32
33

A.A.E.R. No. 1033 (May 4, 1999).
A.A.E.R. No. 1133 (May 17, 1999).

12

variety of reasons, including attempting to meet analysts’ expectations or creating the
illusion of a financially healthy company.
B.

Improper Expense Recognition
1.

Overview of Findings

The Study identified 101 enforcement matters involving improper expense
recognition.34 Improper expense recognition encompasses a wide variety of accounting
practices usually intended to understate or defer expenses, and therefore overstate net
income. One such practice, which is intended to enable an issuer to meet earnings
expectations, involves setting up “cookie-jar” reserves in one quarter (and initially
overstating expenses) and improperly netting those excess reserves against expenses in
future periods, with the effect of increasing income in these periods.
The chart below summarizes the major improper expense recognition practices
used by issuers involved in Commission enforcement actions during the Study period.
Improper Expense Recognition Practice
Failure to Record Expenses or Losses via
Improper Capitalization/Deferral or Lack of
Accrual
Overstating Ending Inventory Values to Reduce
Cost of Goods Sold
Understating Bad Debts or Loan Losses
Improper Use of Restructuring and Other
Reserves
Failure to Record Asset Impairments

Number of Enforcement Matters
Involving Each Practice35
49
25
19
17
5

An analysis of the 101 improper expense recognition enforcement matters
revealed that approximately 78 involved fraud charges (Section 17(a) of the Securities
Act and/or Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act), with the balance covering non-fraud
reporting, books and records and/or internal controls violations (Sections 13(a),
13(b)(2)(A) and (B), and/or 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, respectively). In these 78
enforcement matters, the Commission charged 290 parties with committing fraud in
connection with the reporting violations.
The Study found that senior management was implicated in 70 of the 101
enforcement matters involving expense recognition. Specifically, the Commission
34

Expenses are outflows of a company’s assets resulting from the delivery of products or services to
customers or the incurrence of certain liabilities. Examples of major categories of expenses shown on
public companies’ income statements are: (1) cost of goods sold; (2) selling and marketing; (3) general and
administrative; (4) research and development costs; (5) interest; and (6) income taxes.
35
In total, the Commission brought 101 enforcement matters involving expense recognition. Many
enforcement actions involved a company using multiple improper expense recognition schemes.

13

charged 32 Chairmen of the Board, 47 CEOs, 46 Presidents, 54 CFOs, 16 COOs, 8 CAOs
and 18 VPs of Finance. The Commission also charged 30 Controllers for violations
based on improper expense recognition.
Of the 101 enforcement matters involving improper expense recognition, 70
issuers restated their financial statements.
2.

Discussion of Representative Cases & Description of Issues

Generally, under the accrual method of accounting, an expense should be
recorded during the accounting period in which it was “incurred” even if the issuer prepays the expense or does not pay for the expense in cash until a later accounting period.36
Companies typically have accounting and bookkeeping systems designed to
generate financial statements in conformity with accrual accounting. However, as
discussed below, in order to achieve the desired accounting result, companies have used
practices in contravention of GAAP to manipulate their reported expenses and net
income. These practices include: (1) improper capitalization or deferral of expenses or
failure to record expenses or losses; (2) overstating ending inventory values; (3) improper
use of restructuring and other liability reserves; (4) understating bad debts and loan loss
liabilities; and (5) failure to record asset impairments.
a.

Improper Capitalization/Deferral – Failure to Record
Expenses or Losses

When recording expenditures on their books, companies should classify the costs
as assets or expenses. Improper capitalization and deferral occurs when companies
capitalize current costs that do not benefit future periods.37 Improperly capitalizing or
deferring expenses generally causes a company to understate reported expenses and
overstate net income in the period of capitalization or deferral.
During the Study period, 49 enforcement matters involved the failure to properly
record expenses. Fifteen of these cases involved the company’s outright failure to accrue
an appropriate expense or loss.
Case Highlights
•

WorldCom, Inc. – The most prominent example of a company improperly
capitalizing expenditures involved WorldCom. In its amended complaint
against WorldCom, the Commission alleged that WorldCom overstated
the income reported in its financial statements by approximately $9

36

For example, a company incurs “Cost of Goods Sold” when it delivers merchandise to customers (as
opposed to when it actually manufactured the inventory or bought it from a supplier).
37
Capitalization refers to the recording of expenditures as assets rather than expenses. Capitalized costs
become future expenses and are automatically “deferred” (i.e., shifted) to future accounting periods and are
not recorded as expenses in the current accounting period.

14

billion. One way that WorldCom allegedly accomplished this
overstatement was to reduce improperly its operating expenses by
recharacterizing certain expenses as capital assets. Specifically, senior
officials at the company directed accounting managers to transfer certain
“line costs” (which should have been reported as current operating
expenses) to its capital asset accounts. This transfer caused the company
to materially understate expenses and overstate net income, which allowed
the company to report earnings that were in line with analysts’ estimates.38
Although the company has announced its intention to restate its financial
statements, no such restatement has been filed with the Commission as of
the date of this Report. On July 21, 2002, the company and certain of its
subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy.

38
39
40

•

Waste Management, Inc. – The Commission alleged that Waste
Management, a hazardous waste services company, improperly inflated its
operating income and other measures of performance by deferring the
recognition of current period operating expenses into the future and by
netting one-time gains against current and prior period misstatements and
current period operating expenses. Senior management increased reported
operating income by understating operating expenses – making repeated
fourth quarter adjustments to improperly reduce depreciation expense on
its equipment cumulatively from the beginning of the year, using a nonGAAP method of capitalizing interest on landfill development costs,
failing to accrue properly for its tax and self-insurance expenses,
improperly using purchase accounting to increase its environmental
remediation reserves (liabilities), improperly charging operating expenses
to the environmental remediation reserves, and failing to write-off
permitting and/or project costs on impaired or abandoned landfills.39 On
or about March 31, 1998, the company filed amended financial statements
covering the period January 1, 1992 through September 30, 1997.

•

Livent, Inc. – The Commission charged Livent, a theatrical entertainment
company, with fraudulently capitalizing pre-production costs by
transferring them to fixed asset (rather than expense) accounts. The
Commission alleged that Livent also deferred expenses by transferring
expenses from current productions to shows that had not yet opened or
that had longer amortization periods. In addition, Livent allegedly
removed certain expenses from its general ledger (literally erasing them
from the books) and re-entered them in subsequent quarters.40 On or
about November 18, 1998, the company filed amended financial
statements covering the period January 1, 1996 through March 31, 1998.

A.A.E.R. No. 1585 (June 27, 2002).
A.A.E.R. No. 1532 (March 26, 2002); A.A.E.R. 1410 (June 19, 2001).
A.A.E.R. No. 1095 (January 13, 1999).

15

b.

Overstating Ending Inventory Values

During the course of any accounting period, issuers that sell products have a
certain amount of merchandise available for sale to customers. At the end of an
accounting period, issuers may either count their physical inventory or rely on their books
and records to determine how much of this merchandise cost should be allocated as
“inventory” (an asset) and how much should be allocated as “cost of goods sold” (an
expense). Companies have improperly increased their net profits by allocating more
costs to inventory than cost of goods sold, thus artificially increasing their ending
inventory values and decreasing their current expense for inventory.
In 25 enforcement matters that involved overstatements of ending inventory,
several common themes were present. Specifically, companies: (1) improperly increased
physical ending inventory counts; (2) recorded bogus inventory “in-transit” to
warehouses, often overseas; or (3) failed to write-down obsolete inventory or inventory
whose market value had declined.
Case Highlights
•

Rite Aid Corporation – The Commission alleged that Rite Aid overstated
its net income by managing the value of its inventory. Specifically, senior
management allegedly failed to record $8.8 million in shrinkage of its
physical inventory due to loss or theft. The CFO also made adjusting
journal entries to lower the reported cost of goods sold.41 On three
separate occasions during 1999 and 2000, Rite Aid filed amended
financial statements relating to this matter.

•

MiniScribe Corporation – The Commission alleged that MiniScribe
increased the value of its inventory by recording fictitious transfers of
non-existent inventory from its headquarters in Colorado to overseas
locations. MiniScribe also allegedly repackaged scrap and obsolete
inventory parts (that should have been written-off) and improperly
included the costs in its ending inventory. The company also allegedly
counted in inventory the costs of certain merchandise it purchased without
recording the corresponding amounts owed as liabilities.42 On or about
January 2, 1990, the company filed amended financial statements covering
1986 and 1987.
c.

Improper Use of Restructuring and Other Liability
Reserves

Recording a reserve on a company’s books generally involves recognizing an
expense and a related liability or contra-asset. Reserves are properly set up for a wide
41
42

A.A.E.R. No. 1579 (June 21, 2002).
A.A.E.R. No. 1150 (August 11, 1999).

16

variety of estimated future expenditures; major categories of reserve liabilities relate to
restructuring charges, environmental clean-up costs or expected litigation costs. In
establishing reserves, issuers should comply with GAAP by recording reserves only
where a liability exists. Once a reserve is established, payments made by the issuer
properly related to the reserve are offset against the reserve and not reported as an
expense in the current period.
Reserves may be improperly used by issuers to manage earnings. These
companies typically create excess reserves (by initially over-accruing a liability) in one
accounting period and then reduce the excess reserves in later accounting periods. The
reversal of the reserve creates net income that can be used to meet earnings shortfalls. Of
the 101 enforcement matters involving improper expense recognition, 17 involved
improper use of reserves.
Case Highlights

43
44
45

•

Xerox Corporation – Xerox allegedly manipulated its reserves in order to
meet market earnings expectations. Specifically, the Commission alleged
that Xerox maintained $396 million in cookie-jar reserves, which it
periodically released into earnings to artificially improve its operating
results. Xerox also improperly set up a $100 million reserve in connection
with an acquisition and then used the reserve to cover expenses unrelated
to the acquisition.43 On or about July 11, 2002, Xerox filed amended
financial statements covering the period January 1, 1997 through
December 31, 2000.

•

Sunbeam Corporation – The Commission alleged that Sunbeam created
cookie-jar reserves in 1996 to increase Sunbeam's reported loss, and
reversed these excess reserves into income during 1997 to artificially
inflate earnings.44 On or about November 12, 1998, the company filed
amended financial statements covering the period October 1, 1996 through
March 31, 1998.

•

W.R. Grace & Co. – The Commission alleged that W.R. Grace, a
packaging, specialty chemical and healthcare services company, recorded
liabilities, through the deferral of income, in order to build cookie-jar
reserves. W.R. Grace later used these reserves to meet earnings
estimates.45 W.R. Grace did not restate its consolidated financial
statements relating to this matter.

A.A.E.R. No. 1542 (April 11, 2002).
A.A.E.R. No. 1395 (May 15, 2001).
A.A.E.R. No. 1140 (June 30, 1999).

17

d.

Understating Reserves for Bad Debts and Loan Losses

All public companies sell products or services, and these sales often are made on
a credit basis. For these credit sales, companies record revenue and corresponding
accounts receivable for the money owed by customers. If, at a later date, certain
receivables are determined to be uncollectable, companies must record an expense for the
estimated bad debts.46 If a company fails to make a reasonable estimate of its
uncollectable receivables, it will understate its accrual for bad debt and will overstate net
income. Nineteen enforcement matters in the Study involved the understatement of bad
debt expense or loan losses.
Case Highlights
•

Allegheny Health Education and Research Foundation (“AHERF”) –
The Commission alleged that AHERF, a healthcare provider in
Pennsylvania, masked its severely deteriorating financial condition by
failing to increase its bad debt reserves to account for uncollectable
accounts receivable of approximately $100 million.47 AHERF did not file
amended financial statements with the Commission relating to this matter.
e.

Failure to Record Asset Impairments

Most non-financial assets are typically carried on the books at historical cost, less
accumulated depreciation. Asset-values should be written down, and a corresponding
expense or loss recorded, if the asset is impaired. GAAP includes different impairment
standards for different types of assets. If the permanently impaired asset-values are not
written down, the company’s expenses or losses will be understated and net income
overstated. Five enforcement matters involved the failure to record asset impairments.
Case Highlights
•

New Jersey Resources Corporation (“NJR”) – The Commission alleged
that NJR, an energy company, failed to recognize an impairment of the
carrying value of its oil and gas properties resulting in an overstatement of
the company’s net income by $6.3 million.48 On or about April 28, 1994,
the company filed amended financial statements covering the period
October 1, 1992 through September 30, 1993.
3.

Analysis and Conclusions

The Study found that expense recognition is very susceptible to manipulation of
the issuer’s financial statements. Of the 227 enforcement matters during the Study
46

Banks or other financial institutions that loan money to borrowers must record bad debt expenses to
reflect probable losses from borrowers.
47
A.A.E.R. No. 1283 (June 30, 2000).
48
A.A.E.R. No. 1002 (December 31, 1997).

18

period, 101 included improper expense recognition practices. Unlike the area of
improper revenue recognition, the conduct found in improper expense recognition often
involves a more subtle manipulation of expenses and reserves to increase overall income
and meet analyst expectations. Of the 101 improper expense recognition enforcement
matters, 49 involved the improper capitalization or non-recognition of expenses, resulting
in the understatement of expenses and the overstatement of income. In addition, 25 of
the 101 enforcement matters involved the overstatement of inventory, and 19 involved
the understatement of bad debts or loan losses. At least one member of senior
management was charged in 70 of the 101 enforcement matters.
C.

Improper Accounting in Connection with Business Combinations
1.

Overview of Findings

Besides improper recognition of expenses and revenue enforcement matters, the
Study identified 23 enforcement matters in which companies used improper accounting
in connection with business combinations.49 The Study found that these types of
violations involved improper valuation of assets, improper use of merger reserves, and
premature merger recognition. Additionally, some companies failed to disclose the
liabilities associated with a business combination. An analysis of the 23 enforcement
matters revealed that about 17 involved fraud charges (Section 17(a) of the Securities Act
and/or Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act), with the balance covering reporting, books
and records and/or internal controls violations (Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and (B),
and/or 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, respectively). In these 23 enforcement matters, 17
issuers restated their financial statements.
The following chart summarizes the main improper business combination
practices engaged in by companies involved in Commission enforcement matters during
the Study period.
Improper Business Combination
Accounting Practices
Improper Asset Valuation
Improper Use of Merger Reserves
Inappropriate Application of
Purchase/Pooling Methods

Number of Enforcement Matters
Involving Each Practice
8
8
4

The Study found that senior management was implicated in 14 of the 23
enforcement matters involving improper accounting for business combinations.
Specifically, the Study found that 7 Chairmen of the Board, 8 CEOs, 9 Presidents, 1
COO, 8 CFOs, and 1 VP of Finance were charged in such enforcement matters. In
addition, the Commission charged 2 Controllers for their involvement in these
enforcement matters.
49

“A business combination occurs when an entity acquires net assets that constitute a business or acquires
equity interests of one or more other entities and obtains control over that entity or entities.” FASB
Statement No. 141, paragraph 9.

19

2.

Discussion of Representative Cases and Description of Issues
a.

Improper Asset Valuation

When valuing assets in the merger and acquisition context, amounts should be
assigned to assets based on their fair values. Enforcement matters involving improper
asset valuation include: overstating asset values, improperly valuing consideration given
for the asset, or rolling over the historical value without requiring proper independent
evidence to substantiate the value assigned to the asset.
Case Highlights
•

Chester Holdings Ltd. – The Commission alleged that officers and
directors of the issuer overstated the value of consideration paid for five
acquisitions of assets and businesses and overstated the value of the assets
acquired in the issuer’s financial statements. For example, the officers
claimed that the issuer acquired a knitting company for $14 million in
stock when the fair value of the assets was worth no more than $4.9
million.50 On or about October 16, 1992, the company filed amended
financial statements covering the period July 1, 1991 through June 30,
1992.
b.

Improper Use of Merger Reserves

In connection with an acquisition, a company usually incurs costs to integrate
(and/or exit) business activities. Such expected costs are shown as a liability accrued at
the time of the acquisition.51 In later accounting periods, if the remaining liability reserve
is determined to be too high, the company should generally reduce it in that accounting
period. If accounted for improperly, the initial accrual and/or later reserve reductions can
be used to manage or smooth earnings. Reserve reductions can also be improperly netted
against current operating expenses (thus understating such expenses).
Case Highlights
•

50
51
52

Cendant Corporation – The Commission alleged that senior management
intentionally overstated their merger reserves and then instructed that
amounts in the merger reserves be reversed in later periods. These
reversals were offset by corresponding increases in revenues or decreases
in operating expenses. As a result of the improper reserve reversals and
other fraud, the company overstated its pre-tax operating income by more
than $500 million over a three-year period.52 On or about September 29,
1998, the company filed amended financial statements covering the period
January 1, 1995 through June 30, 1998.

A.A.E.R. 0901 (April 2, 1997); Lit. Rel. No. 16084 (Mar. 11, 1999).
See Issue No. 95-3 of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force.
A.A.E.R. No. 1274 (June 14, 2000).

20

•

Kimberly-Clark Corporation – The Commission alleged that KimberlyClark improperly accounted for merger-related restructuring reserves. The
company took a $1.44 billion charge in relation to an acquisition. Periodic
reevaluations of its reserve balance determined that the original estimate
for certain of its merger-related reserves was too high. Instead of reducing
the reserve as required by GAAP, the company reallocated excess
amounts to other merger-related programs or to new programs. The
company also allegedly released into earnings certain amounts of its
merger-related reserves without adequate support.53 On or about
December 31, 1999, the company filed amended financial statements
covering the period January 1, 1996 through December 31, 1998.
c.

Inappropriate Application of Purchase/Pooling
Methods

Another common issue surrounding business combinations is the inappropriate
application of purchase accounting or the pooling-of-interest method of accounting.
These issues include using the wrong method to account for the business combination
(e.g., using the pooling-of-interests method instead of the purchase method) or
prematurely accounting for a business combination before the transaction has been
consummated.
Case Highlights
•

Vista 2000, Inc. – The Commission alleged that the company consolidated
revenues and assets from two separate acquisitions before the mergers
were consummated. In one acquisition, Vista 2000 improperly recorded
revenues and assets of over $4.3 million earlier than allowed by GAAP.
In another acquisition, the company prematurely included $12 million in
revenue in its financial statements a quarter earlier than the consolidation
was allowable under GAAP.54 On or about June 6, 1996, the company
filed amended financial statements covering the period October 1, 1993
through September 30, 1995.

•

Teltran International Group, Ltd. – The Commission alleged that the
company, a telecommunications company, incorrectly recognized revenue
by recording the acquisition of another company on its books before it had
effective control.55 As the company did not actually acquire the target
until two months later, the early inclusion of the target company’s revenue
failed to conform to GAAP and Teltran materially overstated its revenues

53

A.A.E.R. No. 1533 (Mar. 27, 2002).
A.A.E.R No. 1412 (June 21, 2001).
55
Under FASB Statement (FAS) No. 141 and the prior literature, Accounting Principles Board Opinion
No. 16, a company may book an acquisition earlier than the closing date only if the buyer had effective
control of the target by the earlier date.
54

21

by over $1.3 million as a result of the premature merger recognition.56 On
or about February 22, 2001, the company filed amended financial
statements covering the period June 1, 1999 through September 30, 1999.
3.

Analysis and Conclusions

The Study determined that accounting for business combinations has provided
opportunities for issuers to manipulate their financial statements. Of the 227 enforcement
matters during the Study period, 23 involved improper accounting for business
combinations. The two most prevalent methods of improper accounting in this area were
improper asset valuation (8 of 23) and improper use of merger reserves (8 of 23). At
least one member of senior management was charged in 14 of the 23 enforcement
matters.
D.

Other Areas of Improper Accounting
1.

Overview of Findings

The Study found that other improper accounting practices included inadequate
disclosure in the company’s Management Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) or
elsewhere in the issuer’s filings,57 failure to disclose related party transactions, improper
accounting for non-monetary and roundtrip transactions, improper accounting for foreign
payments in violation of the FCPA, the improper use of off-balance sheet arrangements
to conceal debt, and the improper use of non-GAAP financial measures. Of the 227
enforcement matters studied, 137 included one or more of these types of violations. An
analysis of these 137 enforcement matters revealed that 104 involved fraud charges
(Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and/or Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act), with the
balance covering reporting, books and records and/or internal controls violations
(Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and (B), and/or 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, respectively).

56

A.A.E.R. No. 1543 (April 22, 2002).
For purposes of this Report, this category excludes the failure to disclose related party transactions,
which is counted separately.

57

22

The following chart summarizes the principal other improper accounting practices
used by issuers involved in Commission enforcement matters during the Study period.
Improper Accounting Practice
Inadequate Disclosures in MD&A and
Elsewhere
Failure to Disclose Related Party
Transactions
Improper Accounting for Non-monetary
and Roundtrip Transactions
Improper Accounting for Foreign Payments
in Violation of the FCPA
Improper Use of Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements
Improper Use of Non-GAAP Financial
Measures
2.

Number of Enforcement Matters
Involving Each Practice
43
23
19
6
358
2

Discussion of Representative Cases and Description of Issues
a.

Inadequate Disclosures in Management Discussion and
Analysis (“MD&A”) and Elsewhere in Issuer Filings

The securities laws require issuers to include an MD&A section in their filings.
The MD&A section discusses the issuer’s financial condition and results of operations to
enhance investor understanding of financial statements.59 Inadequate disclosure matters
may involve situations where the issuer’s financial statements are in conformity with
GAAP, but fail in some material way to present an accurate picture of the issuer’s
financial condition. The Study found that 43 enforcement matters involved inadequate
financial disclosure in the MD&A. Of these, 20 issuers restated their financial statements
or elsewhere in the issuer’s filings.
Case Highlights
•

Edison Schools Inc. – The Commission alleged that a private manager of
elementary and secondary public schools failed to disclose significant
information regarding its business operations. The Commission alleged
that Edison failed to disclose that a substantial portion of its reported
revenues consisted of payments that never reached Edison. These funds

58

While the number of cases may appear to be insignificant, the improper use of off-balance sheet
arrangements has been present in some of the recent very large restatements. For example, the Dynegy Inc.
and Enron Corporation matters did not fall within the Study period, but involved these issues. These
enforcement matters are discussed infra, but are not counted in the Study.
59
Item 7 of Form 10-K of the Exchange Act requires reporting issuers to include the items required in Item
303, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of
Regulation S-K.

23

were instead expended by school districts (Edison's clients) to pay teacher
salaries and other costs of operating schools that were managed by Edison.
The Commission did not find that Edison's revenue recognition practices
contravened GAAP or that earnings were misstated. However, the
Commission nonetheless found that Edison committed violations by
failing to provide accurate disclosure, thus showing that technical
compliance with GAAP in the financial statements will not insulate an
issuer from enforcement action.60
b.

Failure to Disclose Related Party Transactions

Under the securities laws and GAAP, companies must disclose
related party transactions. Additionally, transactions with board members, certain
officers, relatives, or beneficial owners holding 5% or more of a company’s voting
securities that exceed $60,000 must be disclosed in the management section of the annual
report.61
Failure to disclose related party transactions hides material information from
shareholders and may be an indicator of weaknesses in internal control and corporate
governance procedures. The Study found 23 enforcement matters included the failure to
disclose such transactions. Of these, 12 issuers restated their financial statements.
Case Highlights
•

Adelphia Communications Corporation (“Adelphia”) – The Commission
alleged that Adelphia engaged in numerous undisclosed related party
transactions with board members, executive officers and entities they
controlled. These transactions resulted in the channeling of company
funds and stock into entities controlled by senior management, the
payment for timber rights that reverted to senior management, the
construction of a golf course on land owned or controlled by senior
management, and the payment of personal loans. The Commission
alleged that Adelphia failed to disclose the existence of these transactions
or misrepresented their terms in its financial statements. Over $300
million of company funds were diverted to senior management without
adequate disclosure to investors.62 As of the date of this Report, Adelphia
has not filed a restatement relating to this matter. On June 25, 2002, the
company and certain of its subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy.

60

A.A.E.R. No. 1555 (May 14, 2002).
Item 404 of Regulation S-K, Rule 4-08(k) of Regulation S-X, and GAAP, including FAS 57, require
issuers to disclose to their investors related party transactions, including a description of the nature of the
relationship, a description of the transaction for each of the relevant periods, the dollar amount of the
transaction for each period, and the amount due to/from a related party as of the date of each balance sheet.
FAS 57 recognizes that "[t]ransactions involving related parties cannot be presumed to be carried out on an
arm's length basis, as the requisite conditions of competitive, free-market dealings may not exist."
62
A.A.E.R. No. 1599 (July 24, 2002).
61

24

•

Rite Aid Corporation – The Commission alleged, among other things, that
the CEO sought to enrich himself at the expense of shareholders by failing
to disclose both his personal interest in leased property for Rite Aid store
locations and several transactions where he funneled $2.6 million from
Rite Aid to a partnership that he and a relative controlled.63 On three
separate occasions during 1999 and 2000, Rite Aid filed amended
financial statements relating to this matter.
c.

Inappropriate Accounting for Non-monetary and
Roundtrip Transactions

Most business transactions involve exchanges of cash or other monetary assets or
incurrence of liabilities for goods or services. The amount of monetary assets exchanged
or liabilities incurred generally provides an objective basis for measuring the cost of nonmonetary assets or services received by an enterprise as well as for measuring gain or
loss on non-monetary assets transferred from an enterprise. Exchanges that involve little
or no monetary assets or liabilities are referred to as non-monetary transactions. In
general, under GAAP, accounting for non-monetary transactions should be based on the
fair values of the assets (or services) involved, which is the same basis as that used in
monetary transactions.
Additionally, the Commission has brought enforcement actions recently against
issuers who engaged in improper accounting through the use of “roundtrip transactions.”
These transactions involve simultaneous pre-arranged sales transactions often of the same
product in order to create a false impression of business activity and revenue. The Study
found 19 enforcement matters involving the improper accounting for non-monetary
and/or roundtrip transactions.
Case Highlights
•

63
64

Critical Path, Inc. – The Commission found that Critical Path improperly
reported as revenue several transactions, the largest of which was a barter
transaction. In this transaction, a software company agreed to buy out a
periodic royalty obligation for $2.8 million and buy another $240,000 of
software, in exchange for Critical Path's agreement to buy approximately
$4 million of software and services from the software company. The
Commission alleged that Critical Path recorded a $3.09 million sale to the
software company improperly as revenue for the third quarter. The
company failed to establish the fair value of either the software it received
from, or the software it sent to, the software company. Furthermore, the
Commission found that Critical Path did not ensure that the value ascribed
to the software Critical Path was receiving reasonably reflected its
expected use of the software, as required under GAAP.64 On April 5,

A.A.E.R. No. 1579 (June 21, 2002).
A.A.E.R. No. 1503 (February 5, 2002).

25

2001, Critical Path restated its financial results for the third quarter of
2000.

65
66

•

Unify Corporation – The Commission alleged that Unify fraudulently
recognized revenue on transactions that it knew involved barter
transactions. Under GAAP, it was improper for Unify to recognize
revenue on barter transactions because Unify’s revenue was contingent on
Unify’s performance of its obligation to the customer. The Commission
alleged that, in several instances, Unify’s CEO and CFO engaged in
“roundtripping,” by causing Unify to provide funds its customers needed
to buy Unify products, with no reasonable expectation that the customers
would ever repay the funds. In some instances, Unify allegedly made an
investment in another company, which then used most or all of the
invested funds to purchase Unify products. In others, Unify contracted for
services from other companies through so called Funded Development
Agreements. However, the companies provided no such services, and
simply used funds from Unify to buy Unify products. As a result of this
conduct, Unify overstated its revenue over four fiscal quarters in amounts
ranging from 61% to 150% per quarter.65 Unify filed various amendments
during December 2000 and the first half of 2001 to restate its financial
statements relating to this matter.

•

Quintus Corporation – The Commission alleged that the CEO of Quintus,
among other things, caused Quintus to improperly recognize $3 million in
revenue on a barter transaction, which was contingent on Quintus’
agreement to purchase $4 million of products from its customer.66
Quintus announced that it would restate its financial statements for the
fiscal year ended March 31, 2000 and for the three-month periods ended
December 31, 1999 and June 30, 2000. However, the Company has not
yet filed any amendments with the Commission. On February 21, 2001,
Quintus and certain of its subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy.

•

Homestore.com Inc. (“Homestore”) – The Commission charged three
former executives of Homestore with arranging fraudulent roundtrip
transactions for the sole purpose of artificially inflating Homestore's
revenues in order to exceed Wall Street analysts' expectations. The
essence of these transactions was a circular flow of money by which
Homestore recognized its own cash as revenue. Specifically, the
Commission alleged that Homestore paid inflated sums to various vendors
for services or products; in turn, the vendors used these funds to buy
advertising from two media companies. The media companies then
bought advertising from Homestore either on their own behalf or as agents
for other advertisers. Homestore recorded the funds it received from the
media companies as revenue in its financial statements, in violation of

Lit. Rel. No. 17522 (May 20, 2002).
A.A.E.R. 1560 (May 20, 2002).

26

applicable accounting principles.67 In March 2002, Homestore filed
amended financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000
and for the three quarters ended September 30, 2001.
d.

Improper Accounting for Foreign Payments in
Violation of the FCPA

The FCPA was passed in 1977 to combat corrupt business practices such as
bribery. The Commission includes FCPA enforcement matters as issuer reporting cases
because they frequently involve the improper accounting by issuers for payments to
foreign government officials. Of the six enforcement matters involving improper
accounting for foreign payments, one issuer restated its financial statements.
Case Highlights
•

BellSouth Corporation – The Commission alleged that BellSouth violated
the FCPA by authorizing payments to local officials through their
subsidiaries in Venezuela and Nicaragua. Senior management at
BellSouth’s Venezuelan subsidiary allegedly authorized over $10 million
in payments to six offshore companies, which were improperly recorded
as bona fide services. In addition, the Commission alleged that
management at the Nicaraguan subsidiary authorized payments, recorded
as “consulting services,” to a wife of a Nicaraguan legislator, who
presided over a hearing that allowed BellSouth to increase its ownership
interest in its Nicaraguan subsidiary.68 BellSouth did not file amended
financial statements relating to this issue.

•

International Business Machines Corporation (“IBM”) – The
Commission alleged that IBM had a $250 million contract to integrate and
modernize the computer system of a commercial bank owned by the
Argentine government. IBM-Argentina allegedly entered into a
subcontract with an Argentine corporation for $22 million, which funneled
approximately $4.5 million of these funds to several directors of the
government owned commercial bank. IBM recorded the expenses as
third-party subcontractor expenses. IBM-Argentina's former senior
management overrode IBM's procurement and contracting procedures and
hid the details from financial personnel. Management provided the
procurement department with fabricated documentation and stated
inaccurate and incomplete reasons for hiring the Argentine corporation.69
IBM did not file amended financial statements relating to this issue.

67

A.A.E.R. 1636 (September 25, 2002). This case was not included in the statistics contained in this
Report.
68
A.A.E.R. No. 1494 (Jan. 15, 2002).
69
A.A.E.R. No. 1355 (Dec. 21, 2000).

27

e.

Improper Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures

When improperly used, non-GAAP financial measures that include or exclude
unusual expenses or gains may provide a misleading financial picture. The Commission
has recently issued a cautionary release on non-GAAP financial measures, has brought
two antifraud enforcement actions in this area, and has proposed rule-making pursuant to
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.70 Of the two enforcement matters involving improper use of
non-GAAP financial measures, one issuer restated its financial statements or disclosures.
Case Highlights
•

Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, Inc. – The Commission alleged that
Trump Hotels issued a press release announcing positive results for its
third quarter earnings using a pro-forma net income figure that differed
from net income calculated in conformity with GAAP. Although the
release expressly stated the results excluded a one-time charge, it failed to
disclose the inclusion of a one-time gain of $17.2 million. The release
created a misleading impression that the company had exceeded earnings
expectations when actual net earnings were lower than the same quarter
for the previous year and the company had in fact failed to meet analysts’
expectations.71 On November 4, 1999, Trump Hotels filed its quarterly
report on Form 10-Q, which disclosed the existence and amount of the
one-time gain in a footnote to the financial statements.

•

Ashford.com, Inc. (“Ashford”) – The Commission alleged that Ashford
misstated its pro-forma results by improperly deferring $1.5 million in
expenses under a contract with Amazon.com. The Commission also
alleged that Ashford.com incorrectly classified certain marketing expenses
as depreciation and amortization expenses which materially understated
the company’s true marketing expenses. Moreover, because Ashford
allegedly excluded depreciation and amortization from its non-GAAP
financial results, Ashford’s expense misclassification improved its nonGAAP financial results.72 In its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
March 30, 2001, Ashford re-classified the expenses in question.
f.

Improper Use of Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements

Off-balance sheet arrangements often are used to provide financing, liquidity,
market or credit risk support or to engage in leasing, hedging or research and
development services. A common use of off-balance sheet arrangements is to allocate
risks among third parties. Off-balance sheet arrangements may involve the use of
70

See Cautionary Advice Regarding Use of Pro Forma Financial Information in Earnings Releases, Rel.
Nos. 33-8039, 34-45124 (Dec. 4, 2001); Proposed Rule: Conditions for Use of Non-GAAP Financial
Measures, Rel. Nos. 33-8145; 34-46768 (Nov. 5, 2002).
71
A.A.E.R. No. 1499 (Jan. 16, 2002).
72
A.A.E.R. No. 1573 (June 10, 2002).

28

complex structures, including structured finance or special purpose entities (“SPEs”), to
facilitate a company's transfer of, or access to, assets. In many cases, the transferor of
assets has some contingent liability or continuing involvement with the transferred assets.
Depending on the nature of the obligations and the related accounting treatment under
GAAP, the company's financial statements may not fully reflect the company's
obligations with respect to the SPE or its arrangements. Transactions with SPEs
commonly are structured so that the company that establishes or sponsors the SPE and
engages in transactions with it is not required to consolidate the SPE into its financial
statements under GAAP. 73
Of the three enforcement matters involving improper use of off-balance sheet
arrangements during the Study period, one issuer restated its financial statements.74
Case Highlights
•

The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc. – This case was the
Commission's first enforcement action resulting from a company's
accounting for and disclosure of off-balance sheet arrangements involving
SPEs in its Commission filings and press releases. The Commission
found that, in violation of GAAP, PNC transferred from its financial
statements approximately $762 million of volatile, troubled or underperforming loans and venture capital assets to three SPEs created by a
third-party financial institution in the second, third, and fourth quarters of
2001, which resulted in material overstatements of PNC’s earnings,
among other things. The Order stated that PNC should have consolidated
these SPEs into its financial statements because it retained the risks and
rewards of ownership. Significantly, the Order stated that even if the
transactions complied with GAAP, the issuer is required to evaluate the
material accuracy and completeness of the presentation made by the
financial statements.75 On or about March 29, 2002, the company filed
amended financial statements covering the period April 1, 2001 through
September 30, 2001.

•

Adelphia Communications Corporation(“Adelphia”) – The Commission
alleged that Adelphia failed to record over $2.3 billion in bank debt by
deliberately shifting those liabilities onto the books of Adelphia’s offbalance sheet, unconsolidated affiliates. Adelphia’s senior management
disguised the liabilities by creating sham transactions backed by fictitious
documents that gave the false appearance that Adelphia had actually
repaid debts.76 As of the date of this Report, Adelphia has not filed a

73

See Proposed Rule: Disclosure in Management's Discussion and Analysis About Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements, Contractual Obligations and Contingent Liabilities and Commitments, RELEASE NOS. 338144; 34-46767 (Nov. 4, 2002). (This Rule is scheduled to be adopted on January 22, 2003).
74
The Enron and Dynegy matters, discussed below, fell outside the Study period but are worth
highlighting. These cases, however, are not included in the statistics contained in this Report.
75
A.A.E.R. No. 1597 (July 18, 2002).
76
A.A.E.R. No. 1599 (July 24, 2002).

29

restatement relating to this matter. On June 25, 2002, the company and
certain of its subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy.
•

Enron Corporation – The Commission has charged two former seniorranking Enron officials with fraud arising from their improper use of SPEs
in off-balance sheet arrangements. The Commission alleged that the
company’s former CFO and another high-ranking Enron official engaged
in a complex scheme to create an appearance that certain entities that they
funded and controlled were independent of the company, allowing the
company to incorrectly move its interest in these companies off its balance
sheet. The Commission alleged that these entities were designed to
improve the company’s financial results, and to misappropriate millions of
dollars representing undisclosed fees and other illegal profits.77 In its
November 8, 2001 Form 8-K filing, Enron announced its intention to
restate previously issued financial statements dating back to 1997. On
December 2, 2001, Enron filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. To
date, Enron has not filed restated financial statements.

•

Dynegy Inc. – The Commission alleged that Dynegy, an energy
production, distribution and trading company, mislead investors by
improperly accounting for a $300 million financing involving an SPE.
Dynegy created the SPE in order to minimize the gap between its reported
net income and operating cash flow, and to receive a tax benefit. Instead
of accounting for the transaction as a loan, the company reported it as
operating cash flow on its 2001 financial statements, which resulted in the
overstatement of operating cash flow and understatement of cash flow
from financing activity.78 On April 25, 2002, Dynegy announced that it
would restate its 2001 statement of cash flows. On November 15, 2002,
the company filed unaudited financial statements to correct certain items
in its 1999, 2000, and 2001 financial statements concerning the above
transaction. The company has not filed audited restatements as of the date
of this Report.
3.

Analysis and Conclusions

The conduct described in this area includes newer and more complex schemes to
manipulate issuer financial statements. Some of the most publicized recent enforcement
actions, such as Enron and WorldCom, involved the use of these practices. Congress’s
concern about this more recent conduct is evidenced by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s
specific focus on it. The Commission is already engaging in rulemaking in some of these
areas, such as off-balance sheet arrangements and non-GAAP financial measures.

77

A.A.E.R. No. 1640 (Oct. 2, 2002). This case was not included in the statistics contained in this Report.
A.A.E.R. No. 1632 (Sept. 25, 2002). This case was not included in the statistics contained in this
Report.

78

30

V.

Results of the Study – Persons Involved in Financial Reporting Violations
A.

Overview of Findings

This portion of the Study focuses on the individuals involved in the financial
reporting violations at the issuers. Of the 227 enforcement matters during the period of
the Study, the Commission brought a total of 515 actions involving 705 individuals. The
Study found that 157 of the 227 enforcement matters involved charges against at least
one senior manager. The majority of these senior managers were charged with violating
the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws. The remainder of the charges
against senior management were based on aiding and abetting or causing violations of the
reporting, books and records and internal control provisions of the federal securities laws.
Position of Individuals
Charged

Number of
Individuals
Charged

Chairmen
CEOs
Presidents
CFOs
COOs
CAOs
VP’s of Finance
General Counsel
Controllers

75
111
111
105
21
16
27
11
47

Number of
Individuals
Charged
with Fraud
63
99
96
79
19
14
19
8
28

In order to address the improper conduct by senior management, the Commission
has invoked its authority to seek officer-and-director bars pursuant to Section 21(d)(2) of
the Exchange Act. Over the course of the last five fiscal years, the Commission’s
invocation of this authority has steadily increased. The Commission sought 36 officerand-director bars in 1998, 44 in 1999, 38 in 2000, 51 in 2001, and 126 in 2002, totaling
295.79
Fiscal Year

Number of Officer-andDirector Bars Sought
36
44
38
51
126

1998
1999
2000
2001
2002

79

These numbers are broken down by the Commission’s fiscal year, which begins on October 1 and ends
on September 30.

31

B.

The Individuals Charged

Although the vast majority of cases the Commission has brought stemmed from
conduct by top-level executives, the financial reporting violations have involved
numerous individuals at all levels both inside and outside of the issuer. Some of the
violative conduct involved customers and shareholders of issuers and some involved the
outside auditors, which will be discussed in the next section. The individuals associated
with issuers were charged with accounting violations relating to a variety of conduct
ranging from the most egregious misappropriation of corporate assets/funds to financial
misstatements arising from poor management and loose controls.
This section outlines a few key cases that highlight the roles played by individuals
in various levels of authority, both inside and outside of issuers, who were involved in
accounting schemes.
1.

Senior Management

Many cases involved schemes by senior management to create the appearance
that the company would meet analysts’ expectations or to artificially increase the value of
the company’s stock.
Case highlights

80

•

Enron Corporation – The Commission has charged two former senior
ranking Enron officials with fraud in one of the largest accounting
scandals in history. The Commission alleged that the company’s former
CFO and another high-ranking Enron official engaged in a complex
scheme to create an appearance that certain entities that they funded and
controlled were independent of the company, allowing the company to
incorrectly move its interest in these companies off its balance sheet. The
Commission alleged that these transactions were designed to improve the
company’s financial results, and to misappropriate millions of dollars
representing undisclosed fees and other illegal profits.80 In its November
8, 2001 Form 8-K filing, Enron announced its intention to restate
previously issued financial statements dating back to 1997. On December
2, 2001, Enron filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. To date, Enron
has not filed restated financial statements.

•

Sunbeam Corporation – The Commission filed actions against five
former officers (the CEO and Chairman, principal financial officer,
Controller, and two vice-presidents) of the company alleging that they
engaged in a scheme to fraudulently misrepresent the company’s results of
operations in connection with a purported “turnaround” of the company.
The Commission alleged that the company’s Principal Accounting Officer
and Controller created inappropriate accounting reserves, known as

A.A.E.R. No. 1640 (Oct. 2, 2002). This case was not included in the statistics contained in this Report.

32

“cookie-jar” reserves, to increase the company’s reported loss for 1996
and inflate income in 1997, thus contributing to the false picture of a rapid
turnaround. In 1998, the officers took increasingly desperate measures to
conceal the company’s mounting financial problems by, among other
things, deleting certain corporate records to conceal pending returns of
merchandise.81 On or about November 12, 1998, the company filed
amended financial statements covering the period October 1, 1996 through
March 31, 1998.
•

Waste Management, Inc. – The Commission alleged that the company’s
top officers, including the former Chairman and CEO, President and COO,
Executive Vice President and CFO, Vice President, Corporate Controller
and CAO, Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, and VP
of Finance, fraudulently manipulated the company’s financial results to
meet predetermined earnings targets. The Commission’s complaint
alleged that because the company’s revenues and profits were not growing
quickly enough to meet targets, these senior officers improperly resorted
to eliminating or deferring current period expenses to inflate earnings,
using a multitude of improper accounting practices to achieve their
objectives.82 On or about March 31, 1998, the company filed amended
financial statements covering the period January 1, 1992 through
September 30, 1997.

Several cases against senior management involved accounting fraud (often
accompanied by failure to disclose related party transactions) stemming from the
siphoning off of company funds for the executives’ own personal use.
Case highlights

81
82
83

•

Adelphia Communications Corporation (“Adelphia”) – The Commission
sued the company’s former CEO and Chairman and his sons alleging,
among other things, that they made fraudulent statements and omissions in
order to cover up the family’s secret and extensive personal use of
Adelphia funds to purchase luxury homes in Colorado, Mexico and New
York City, build a golf course, purchase timber rights to land in
Pennsylvania, buy stock and pay off margin calls.83 As of the date of this
Report, Adelphia has not filed a restatement relating to this matter. On
June 25, 2002, the company and certain of its subsidiaries filed for
bankruptcy.

•

Tyco International Ltd. – The Commission alleged that three top
executives – the CEO, CFO, and Chief Legal Officer – failed to disclose
to shareholders the multi-million dollar loans from the company that they

A.A.E.R. No. 1395 (May 15, 2001).
A.A.E.R. No. 1532 (March 26, 2002); A.A.E.R. No. 1410 (June 19, 2001).
A.A.E.R. No. 1599 (July 24, 2002).

33

used for personal business ventures and investments, and to purchase
yachts, fine art, estate jewelry, luxury apartments and vacation estates.
These senior officials also allegedly failed to disclose benefits such as a
rent-free $31 million Fifth Avenue apartment, the personal use of
corporate jets, and making charitable contributions in their personal
capacity.84 On December 31, 2002, Tyco filed amended financial
statements and disclosures covering the period October 1, 2000 through
June 30, 2002. On December 31, 2002, Tyco filed amended financial
statements and disclosures covering the period October 1, 2000 through
June 30, 2002.
•

Rite Aid Corporation – The Commission alleged that the former CEO,
CFO and Vice Chairman engaged in a scheme to overstate income by
massive amounts. In addition, the Commission alleged that the CEO
sought to enrich himself at the expense of failing to disclose both his
personal interest in leased property for Rite Aid store locations and several
transactions where he funneled $2.6 million from Rite Aid to a partnership
that he and a relative controlled. The Commission’s complaint also
charged that he fabricated minutes for a Finance Committee meeting that
never occurred in connection with a corporate loan transaction.85 On three
separate occasions during 1999 and 2000, Rite Aid filed amended
financial statements relating to this matter.
2.

Mid-Level Management

The Study found that the Commission brought actions against 83 mid-level
management employees, such as corporate controllers and division and subsidiary level
officers and controllers. Many of these employees participated in fraudulent schemes at
the direction of senior management. Occasionally, the Commission has sued employees
for independent conduct that has resulted in the misstatement of issuer financial
statements.
Case highlights
•

WorldCom, Inc. – The Commission alleged that two accountants who
worked in the company’s General Accounting Department, along with
their supervisors, participated in a fraudulent scheme directed and
approved by WorldCom's senior management. The Commission alleged
that these individuals made or caused to be made entries in WorldCom's
books, which improperly decreased certain reserves to reduce line costs,
causing the overstatement of pre-tax earnings by $828 million and at least
$407 million in two consecutive quarters. The Commission also alleged
that these individuals made and caused to be made entries in WorldCom's

84

A.A.E.R. No. 1627 (Sept. 12, 2002). This case was not included in the statistics contained in this
Report.
85
A.A.E.R. No. 1579 (June 21, 2002).

34

books, which improperly capitalized certain line costs for five quarters,
resulting in an overstatement of WorldCom's pretax earnings by
approximately $3.8 billion. 86 While the company has announced its
intention to restate its financial statements, no such restatement has been
filed with the Commission as of the date of this Report.
•

Aurora Foods Inc. – The Commission alleged that principal financial
officers of two divisions of the company, at the direction of its senior
management, engaged in a scheme to under-report trade marketing
expense. These individuals moved large portions of trade promotion
expenses to accounts receivable, thus concealing them from the auditors.87
On or about April 14, 2000, the company filed amended financial
statements covering the period April 1, 1998 through June 30, 1999.

•

Seaboard Corporation – The Commission found that the Controller of a
division of the company booked improper entries in that division’s books
and records over several years that overstated the deferred farming cost
asset and understated farming expense. After discovering that the entries
were improper, she deliberately undertook to conceal the errors through
other improper entries and adjustments.88 On or about August 28, 2000,
the company filed amended financial statements covering the period
January 1, 1997 through March 31, 2000.
3.

Counsel

The Commission has charged 14 attorneys (11 General Counsel and three outside
counsel) for participating in financial reporting violations.
Case highlights
•

FLIR Systems, Inc. – The Commission brought a settled action
suspending an attorney from practicing before the Commission based on
willful violations of the securities law. The Commission found that, in
connection with FLIR’s scheme to overstate earnings, the General Counsel
signed two management representation letters to the company’s outside
auditors. Among other things, these letters failed to disclose the
conditional nature of the transactions and of his personal involvement in
the negotiations. The General Counsel had been involved in the
negotiations in the transactions and knew that the buyer had no obligation
to purchase the product.89 FLIR restated its 1998 and 1999 financial
statements three times in 2000 and 2001 to correct these misstatements.

86

A.A.E.R. No. 1585 (June 27, 2002); A.A.E.R. No. 1658 (November 5, 2002).
A.A.E.R No. 1362 (Jan. 24, 2001).
88
A.A.E.R. No. 1471 (Oct. 23, 2001).
89
A.A.E.R. No. 1670 (November 21, 2002). This matter fell outside the Study period but is worth
highlighting. This case, however, is not included in the statistics contained in this Report.
87

35

•

Livent Inc. – The Commission alleged that Livent’s General Counsel,
along with its senior management, orchestrated and implemented a
fraudulent scheme to, among other things, inflate revenues reported by the
company in financial statements filed with the Commission. In
furtherance of this scheme, the counsel drafted and finalized a number of
agreements, and actively dealt with the legal representatives of the counter
parties in the negotiation and finalization of these agreements. The
Commission also alleged that counsel and company officers concealed the
agreements from the company's auditors in order to improperly record
revenue from the transactions and inflate the company's revenues.90 On or
about November 18, 1998, the company filed amended financial
statements covering the period January 1, 1996 through March 31, 1998.

•

Sunbeam Corporation – The Commission filed a settled administrative
action against the former General Counsel of Sunbeam, based on his
participation in drafting of certain press releases in connection with the
company’s fraudulent misrepresentations of its purported “turnaround.”91
On or about November 12, 1998, the company filed amended financial
statements covering the period October 1, 1996 through March 31, 1998.

•

Latin American Resources, Inc. – The Commission filed an action
alleging that the company’s outside counsel falsified documents and
caused others to omit or state material facts to the company’s accountant
in connection with the company’s financial statements which allegedly
made false claims that the company owned Brazilian agricultural
plantations comprising 95% of its company’s assets.92 Latin American
Resources did not file amended financial statements relating to this issue.
4.

Customers

The Commission has charged eleven individuals employed or otherwise related to
customers of issuers and two customers (entities) for participating in fraudulent
accounting schemes. The Study found that these customers were most frequently
involved in fictitious sales transactions or side letters designed to falsify revenue.
Case highlights
•

90
91
92

Manhattan Bagel, Inc. – In addition to charging the President and
Chairman of the company’s subsidiary, the Commission sued three
employees of customers of the company’s subsidiary. The Commission
alleged that the customers’ employees aided and abetted a fraudulent
scheme designed to inflate the company’s net income by falsely

A.A.E.R. No. 1153 (Aug. 12, 1999).
A.A.E.R. No. 1394 (May 15, 2001).
Lit. Rel. No. 15802 (July 8, 1998).

36

confirming to the company’s auditors that their employers had made
significant purchases, when, in fact, the purchases had never been made.93
On or about September 30, 1996, the company filed amended financial
statements covering the period January 1, 1996 through March 31, 1996.
•

VI.

Aura Systems, Inc. – In addition to charging the issuer, a wholly owned
subsidiary and several former officers, the Commission issued a settled
cease-and-desist order against individuals from one of the company’s
customers for making circular wire transfers that allowed the company to
record “payments” from fictitious sales.94 Aura did not restate its financial
statements relating to this issue.

Results of the Study - The Role of the Auditors
A.

Overview of Findings

In reviewing and analyzing enforcement actions involving violations of reporting
requirements imposed under the federal securities laws, the Study examined the role of
the independent auditor. During the Study period, auditors were charged in
administrative or federal injunctive actions in 57 of the 227 enforcement matters. A total
of 89 individuals were charged in those 57 enforcement matters; in 18 of the 57
enforcement matters, the auditing firm was charged.
B.

The Charges in Cases against Auditors

The Study found that 24 individual auditors were charged with fraud pursuant to
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act for participating in the reporting violations of their
clients. However, in only one instance was a firm charged with fraud under Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act.
Case highlight
•

93
94
95

Waste Management, Inc./Arthur Andersen – The Commission charged
Andersen with fraud when it failed to pursue diligently evidence
suggesting irregularities in Waste Management’s financial statements,
ignored numerous red flags, failed to exercise due professional care and
failed to conduct appropriate audit procedures. Waste Management had
capped Andersen’s corporate audit fees, but allowed the firm to earn
additional fees for other services.95 On or about March 31, 1998, the
company filed amended financial statements covering the period January
1, 1992 through September 30, 1997.

A.A.E.R. No. 1396 (May 15, 2001).
A.A.E.R. No. 1571 (June 7, 2002); A.A.E.R. No. 1575 (June 11, 2002).
A.A.E.R. No. 1405 (June 19, 2001); A.A.E.R. No. 1410 (June 19, 2001).

37

When audit firms were charged, they were more frequently charged with
improper professional conduct in an administrative proceeding under Rule 102(e) of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice and/or with aiding and abetting violations of the periodic
reporting requirements of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. Likewise, in several
instances, individual auditors were also charged with aiding and abetting violations of
Section 13(a).
Charges Brought Against Individual Auditors and Auditing Firms
Charges
Fraud (Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act)
Violation of periodic reporting requirements
(Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act)
Improper professional conduct (Rule 102(e))
C.

Individuals
24
22

Firms
1
6

71

16

The Audit Failures

These cases against auditors arose principally where the auditors failed to: (1)
exercise professional skepticism on unusual, last minute, or related party transactions; or
(2) obtain sufficient, competent evidential matter to support their opinion on the financial
statements. The following chart represents the frequency with which specific audit
failures arose in cases against auditors.
Frequency of Audit Issues in Enforcement Matters Against Auditors
Audit Failure
Failure to obtain sufficient, competent
evidential matter to support audit opinion
Failure to exercise professional skepticism
on unusual, last minute, or related party
transactions
Failure to maintain independence
Failure to respond adequately to red flags
Failure to communicate adequately with
predecessor auditor
Failure to supervise assistants
Failure to respond adequately to internal
controls deficiencies
Failure to perform appropriate inventory
observations
Failure to confirm account receivables
sufficiently

38

Number of
Enforcement Matters
37
30
19
16
6
4
3
2
2

D.

Size of Audit Firms Where Audit Failures Occurred

The enforcement matters involving actions against auditors were not limited to
the smaller firms. Of the 57 enforcement matters involving actions against auditors, 16
involved one of the five largest public accounting firms (the "Big Five")96 or an
individual associated with a Big Five firm and 41 involved smaller firms. Moreover,
reporting violations by issuers were at least as likely to occur when the issuer was audited
by a Big Five firm as when it was audited by a smaller firm. In 140 of the 227
enforcement matters studied, the issuer was audited by a Big Five firm.
E.

Discussion of Representative Cases
•

Sunbeam Corporation/Arthur Andersen – The Commission charged an
Andersen engagement partner with aiding and abetting the issuer’s fraud,
among other violations, because he issued an audit report containing an
unqualified opinion despite being aware of many of the company's
accounting improprieties and disclosure failures.97 On or about November
12, 1998, the company filed amended financial statements covering the
period October 1, 1996 through March 31, 1998.

•

Ponder Industries, Inc. – The Commission charged an engagement
partner from a small auditing firm with improper professional conduct for
failing to exercise due professional care when he failed to obtain sufficient
competent evidential matter to support management representations
related to the terms of the issuer’s contracts.98 Ponder Industries did not
file amended financial statements relating to this matter.

•

Dynamic American Corporation – The Commission charged an
engagement partner from a small auditing firm with improper professional
conduct for failing to obtain appropriate knowledge about the issuer’s
business, failing to respond to information suggesting that the issuer’s
assets were overvalued, and failing to verify management’s
representations.99 Dynamic American did not file amended financial
statements relating to this matter.

•

California Software Corporation – The Commission charged an
engagement partner from a small auditing firm with fraud for failing to
obtain written representation letters from management, failing to obtain

96

The Big Five firms in existence during the Study period included Arthur Andersen LLP, Deloitte &
Touche LLP, Ernst & Young LLP, KPMG LLP, and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP.
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP was formed through the merger of Price Waterhouse LLP and Coopers &
Lybrand LLP, and, therefore, for purposes of this Study, issuers audited by the two predecessor firms are
considered to have been audited by a Big Five firm. Arthur Andersen LLP disbanded after the Study
period.
97
A.A.E.R. No. 1395 (May 15, 2001).
98
A.A.E.R. No. 955 (Sept. 10, 1997).
99
A.A.E.R. No. 1149 (Aug. 2, 1999).

39

sufficient competent evidential matter to support accounting entries, and
failing to prepare audit programs or conduct audit risk assessments.100 On
or about October 1, 2000, the company filed amended financial statements
covering the period January 1, 1999 through March 31, 2000.
The following cases are examples of some of the most egregious auditor
independence cases, which involved an auditor having a direct financial interest in the
performance of the issuer.

F.

•

Vista 2000, Inc. – The Commission charged an engagement partner that
owned stock in the issuer with fraud for relying upon oral representations
of management and otherwise conducting insufficient audit procedures.101
On or about June 6, 1996, the company filed amended financial statements
for the period October 1, 1993 through September 30, 1995.

•

Visual Cybernetics Corp. – The Commission charged engagement
partners who were soliciting and selling shares of the issuer’s stock to
their own clients with aiding and abetting violations of the issuer’s
periodic reporting requirements.102 Visual Cybernetics filed for
bankruptcy on November 13, 1995. The company did not restate its
financial statements relating to this issue.
Analysis and Conclusions

The Study found that the audit failures most often arose from auditors accepting
management representations without verification, truncating analytical and substantive
procedures, and failing to gain sufficient evidence to support the numbers in the financial
statements. Of the 57 enforcement matters involving audit failure, 37 involved the failure
to obtain sufficient, competent evidential matter to support the audit opinion and 30
involved the failure to exercise professional skepticism. Only four of the 57 enforcement
matters involved inadequate supervision.
G.

Provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Applying to Auditors

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act provides additional enforcement tools that will
substantially help the Commission in regulating auditors. Section 101 establishes the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (the “Board”) to oversee the audits of
public companies that are subject to the securities laws. Section 102 mandates
registration with the Board by any public accounting firm that performs or participates in
any audit report with respect to any issuer. Section 103 specifies certain standards that
must be included in the auditing standards that the Board adopts, including standards on
document retention, concurring or second partner review, and testing of internal controls.
Section 104 requires the Board to conduct a continuing program of inspections of
100
101
102

A.A.E.R. No. 1488 (Jan. 7, 2002).
Lit. Rel. No. 17044 (June 21, 2001).
A.A.E.R. No. 1072 (Sept. 9, 1998); A.A.E.R. No. 1073 (Sept. 9. 1998).

40

registered public accounting firms, for compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the rules
of the Board, the rules of the Commission, and professional standards.
Section 106 provides that foreign public accounting firms that prepare or furnish
an audit report with respect to any issuer are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the
Commission’s and Board’s rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, unless the Commission
or Board exempts them, by rule or order, from coverage. The section also contains
procedures for the Commission and the Board to obtain foreign audit work papers.
Section 201 specifies eight categories of services that an auditor may not provide
to an issuer that is its audit client, contemporaneously with the audit: (1) bookkeeping or
other services related to the accounting records or financial statements of the issuer; (2)
financial information systems design and implementation; (3) appraisal or valuation
services, fairness opinions, or contribution-in-kind reports; (4) actuarial services; (5)
internal audit outsourcing services; (6) management functions or human resources; (7)
broker, dealer, investment adviser, or investment banking services; and (8) legal services
and expert services unrelated to the audit.
Section 203 mandates lead and coordinating audit partner rotation on a five-year
basis. Section 204 requires auditor reports to the issuer’s audit committee on, among
other things, critical accounting policies and practices to be used. Section 206 prohibits a
registered public accounting firm from performing required audit services for an issuer if
the issuer's senior management officials had been employed by such a firm and
participated in the audit of that issuer during the one-year period preceding the audit.
Section 802 requires auditors to maintain, for a five-year period, all audit or
review work papers, and directs the Commission to promulgate rules and regulations
regarding the retention of audit and review records.
VII.

Proposals Based on the Study

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act included several new provisions to add to the
Commission’s already broad array of enforcement tools to combat issuer reporting
violations. This Report provides a few proposals for additional provisions to enhance the
Commission’s effectiveness in regulating issuer reporting.
A.

Pre-Sarbanes-Oxley Enforcement Tools

The Commission’s current regulatory scheme already contains many weapons to
combat financial fraud and requires accurate and meaningful financial reporting.
Regulations S-X, S-K, S-B and other Commission regulations provide numerous rules for
financial statement presentation and disclosure. Moreover, in enforcement actions
against wrongdoers, the Commission can seek substantial remedies, including permanent
injunctions, cease-and-desist orders, monetary penalties, officer-and-director bars, and
suspensions from practicing before the Commission. Finally, the Commission can refer
appropriate matters to criminal authorities for prosecution.

41

B.

Provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

In addition to creating the Board and developing tougher standards for auditors to
follow, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act includes a number of provisions that enhance the
Commission’s power and ability to enforce more effectively the federal securities laws.
Section 302 requires the Commission to write rules providing that CEOs and
CFOs of issuers certify in each annual or quarterly report that they have reviewed the
report and that, based on their knowledge, “the report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact” or omit any necessary material facts and the financial
statements and information “fairly present in all material respects the financial condition
and results of operations” of the company.103
Section 303 makes it unlawful for an officer or director of an issuer to
fraudulently influence, coerce, manipulate or mislead accountants in the performance of
any audit for the purpose of making the issuer's financial statements materially
misleading.104
Section 304 provides that, in the case of an accounting restatement that results
from material non-compliance with financial reporting requirements under the securities
laws, as a result of misconduct, the CEO and CFO must reimburse the issuer for any
bonuses and other incentive-based compensation and profits on stock sales within the
past 12 months, unless the Commission authorizes an exemption.
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act expands the scope of the officer-and-director bar by
changing the standard and by making it an available remedy in administrative
proceedings. Section 305 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act expands the scope of the officerand-director bar by changing the standard from “substantial unfitness” to “unfitness.”
Section 1105 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act grants the Commission authority to seek officerand-director bars in cease-and-desist proceedings against individuals who have violated
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act or Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act.
Finally, Section 1103 provides that the Commission may, during an investigation
of a public company or its officers, directors, or others, seek a temporary order from a
federal district court to escrow “extraordinary payments” if it appears likely that the
company will make such “extraordinary payments” to an individual. Section 305(b) also
allows, in any action or proceeding brought or instituted by the Commission under any
provision of the securities laws, the Commission to seek, and a federal court to grant, any
equitable relief that may be appropriate or necessary for the benefit of investors.105
103

See Final Rule: Certification of Disclosure in Companies’ Quarterly and Annual Reports, Rel. No. 348124 (August 29, 2002).
104
See Proposed Rule: Improper Influence on Conduct of Audits, Rel. No. 34-46685 (Oct. 18, 2002).
105
The Sarbanes-Oxley Act also provides for increased criminal sanctions for violations of the federal
securities laws. Section 802 amends federal criminal law to require auditors to maintain all audit or review
work papers for a period of five years, and prohibits knowingly altering, destroying, concealing, or
falsifying records with the intent to impede, obstruct or influence certain investigations. Section 906
amends federal criminal law to require issuers' CEOs and CFOs to certify in writing, in each periodic report

42

C.

Proposals

The results of the Study raise issues in three areas: the auditing process; the
underlying accounting principles and standards; and the Commission’s ability to take
effective enforcement actions in cases of fraud. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act has created a
mechanism to address any necessary reform of the auditing process through the
establishment of the Board. At this point, the Commission is not recommending
additional reforms to the accounting and auditing process, choosing instead to focus on
the implementation of the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and to support the
efforts of the Board to meet its statutory mandate.106
In preparing this Report, the Commission has determined that there are two areas
of issuer disclosure that should be addressed: the uniform reporting of restatements of
financial statements, and improved MD&A disclosure. In addition, the Commission’s
investigation of these financial reporting matters would be greatly enhanced by the
enactment of legislation to: (1) allow companies to produce internal reports and other
documents pertaining to investigations without waiving any privileges; (2) provide access
by Commission staff to grand jury materials; and (3) provide for nationwide service of
process for testimony in Commission litigation. These proposals attempt to “fine tune”
the existing regulatory framework by strengthening the Commission’s power to enforce
the federal securities laws.
1.

Uniform Reporting of Restatements

At present, there is no single mechanism for an issuer to file its restated financial
statements with the Commission. Some restated financial statements are included in
amended filings, identified with an “A” at the end (i.e. 10-Q/A). Other issuers simply
include restated financial statements in their regular filings, without any other notification
that the issuer has restated. The Commission found that many issuers announce their
containing financial statements, that the report fully complies with Section 13(a) and 15(d) of the Exchange
Act and that information contained in the periodic report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operation of the issuer. The section further provides that any person who
certifies any statement required under this provision knowing that the periodic report accompanying the
statement does not comport with the requirements of this section is subject to fines of up to $1 million and
imprisonment of up to ten years, and that any person who willfully certifies any statement required under
this provision knowing that the periodic report accompanying the statement does not comport with the
requirements of this section is subject to fines of up to $5 million and imprisonment of up to twenty years.
106
The Commission notes that the FASB has undertaken many projects, several of which have already
been completed, to address some of the accounting standards issues that have been highlighted in the
restatements and enforcement actions over the past several years. The Commission staff has encouraged
the FASB to initiate many of these efforts, and monitors the projects as they progress. Specifically, the
following FASB pronouncements, interpretations, or projects address issues identified in this Report:
FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) 141 – Business Combinations; FAS 142 –
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets; FAS 144 – Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of LongLived Assets; FAS 146 – Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities; FASB
Interpretation 45 – Guarantor’s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including
Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others; FASB Interpretation 46 – Consolidation of Certain Special
Purpose Entities; FASB Agenda Project on Revenue Recognition; FASB Agenda Project on PrinciplesBased Standards; and FASB Agenda Project on Financial Performance Reporting of Business Entities.

43

intention to restate, either through Forms 8-K or in press releases, but never follow
through with the actual filings. As a result of this lack of uniformity, it is difficult for
investors to determine whether, and when, the issuer has actually restated its financial
statements.
The Commission plans to address this situation through the rulemaking process,
proposing two amendments to its forms that would essentially make uniform issuers’
public notification of restatement filings. First, the Commission proposes adding a lineitem to Form 8-K. The proposed line-item would require the issuer to disclose what was
restated and why, and it should include a link to the Form 10-K or 10-Q that contains the
restated financial statements. Second, the Commission proposes adding a box to the
Form 10-K or 10-Q, which the issuer would check if the filing contains restated financial
statements.
2.

Issuing an Interpretive Release, or Adopting Revisions to
Commission Rules, on Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Under existing Commission rules, registrants are required to discuss financial
condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations, which should include
explanations and analysis of the financial statements. However, MD&A enforcement
cases have illustrated situations where the accounting used may be technically correct,
but it fails in some material way to present fairly financial condition, changes in financial
condition and/or results of operations for investors. In other instances, enforcement cases
were based on deficiencies in financial statement disclosure, for example, in the area of
off-balance sheet items, where MD&A also lacked a discussion of known demands,
commitments, events or uncertainties related to those off-balance sheet items. In these
situations, disclosure in MD&A is necessary to avoid material omissions and to achieve
overall fair presentations.
The information provided to investors could be greatly enhanced by adding a
focus in MD&A on key quality financial reporting issues, while eliminating discussions
of immaterial detail. On January 22, 2003, the Commission adopted amendments to its
rules, as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to require that registrants provide
disclosures that explain their off-balance sheet arrangements in a separately-captioned
section of MD&A. In addition, the Commission will continue to consider future rules or
guidance to improve overall MD&A disclosure. For example, the Commission currently
is evaluating comments received in response to its proposals regarding the application of
critical accounting policies. In addition, the Commission is considering rule proposals or
interpretive releases regarding improvements in MD&A such as providing an overview
about a company's financial situation and information about the trends that a company's
management follows and evaluates in making decisions about how to guide the
company's business.

44

3.

Production of Internal Reports Without Waiver of Privilege

The Commission recommends amending the Exchange Act to allow parties who
choose to produce privileged or protected material to do so without fear that their
production to the Commission will be deemed to waive privilege or protection as to
anyone else. This amendment would enhance the Commission’s access to significant,
otherwise unobtainable, information.
The Commission’s investigative efforts could be greatly enhanced, and in some
cases made much more efficient, if the Commission could obtain from private parties
information that is protected by the attorney-client privilege, other privileges, or the
attorney work product doctrine. In many cases, private parties would be willing to share
privileged information with the Commission if they could otherwise maintain the
privileged and confidential nature of the document. For example, a company that retains
outside counsel to conduct an internal investigation concerning possible violations may
be willing to share the investigative report with the Commission. That report, while no
substitute for the Commission’s investigation, may supply the Commission with very
useful information. Under current law, however, a party who produces privileged or
protected material to the Commission runs a risk that a third party, such as an adversary
in private litigation, could obtain that information by successfully arguing that production
to the Commission waived the privilege or protection. This presents a substantial
disincentive for anyone who might otherwise consider providing privileged or protected
information to the Commission.
4.

Access to Grand Jury Materials

The Commission recommends the enactment of legislation authorizing the
Department of Justice, subject to judicial approval in each case, to share grand jury
information with the Commission in more circumstances and at an earlier stage than is
currently permissible.
Under existing law, Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 6(e) prohibits disclosure
of “matters occurring before the grand jury,” unless that disclosure falls within one of the
Rule’s limited exceptions. Under those exceptions, the Commission may obtain grand
jury information only in the rare case in which it can demonstrate that it has a
“particularized need” for the information and that the information is sought
“preliminarily to or in connection with a judicial proceeding.” As a practical matter, the
“particularized need” standard and the required nexus with an ongoing or imminent
judicial proceeding severely limit the situations in which the Department of Justice can
share with the Commission even the most critical information relevant to parallel
investigations. In most cases, the Commission must conduct a separate, duplicative
investigation to obtain the same information. This both entails an inefficient use of
government resources and frequently burdens private parties and financial institutions
with the need to provide essentially the same documents and testimony in multiple
investigations. The need for the Commission to conduct a separate investigation also can
result in substantial delays.

45

A narrow modification of the “grand jury secrecy rule” would aid the
Commission in its investigations and would greatly enhance the efficient use of the law
enforcement resources devoted to those investigations. This same modification was part
of a bill passed by the Senate in 1990,107 and is modeled on Section 964 of the Financial
Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 providing banking and thrift
regulators with access to grand jury information. The Senate bill proposed an
amendment to the Criminal Code allowing a court to direct disclosure of grand jury
matters during an investigation of conduct that may constitute a violation of any
provision of the securities laws.108
5.

Nationwide Service of Process for Testimony in Commission
Litigation

The Commission currently has authority for nationwide service in administrative
proceedings.109 The Commission recommends legislation to make nationwide service
available in civil actions filed in federal courts. Nationwide service of subpoenas would
provide substantial advantages including a significant savings in terms of travel costs and
staff time through the elimination of duplicative depositions, and the benefits of having
live witnesses and party testimony before the trial court. Such a proposal would also
greatly decrease the costs of creating videotapes of deposition testimony, and of
editing and presenting such videotaped testimony at trial.110

107

The Senate passed the proposal as part of the Securities Enforcement Remedies and Penny Stock
Reform Act of 1990. However, the House version of the bill omitted this provision as a result of a
jurisdictional dispute, and a compromise amendment omitting the provision was passed by both Houses
instead. See Cong. Rec. S14059-01, S14069 (Sept. 27, 1990) (Sen. Garn) (“The absence of this authority
in the amended bill is not because it lacks substantial merit. Rather, its absence is solely the result of a
jurisdictional dispute in the House.”).
108
The bill proposed to add the following section to the criminal code:
§3323 Disclosure of certain matters occurring before grand jury for use in enforcing securities
laws
(a)(1) Upon motion of an attorney for the government, a court may direct disclosure of matters
occurring before a grand jury during an investigation of conduct that may constitute a violation of
any provision of the securities laws as defined in section 3(a)(47) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 to identified personnel of the Securities and Exchange Commission for use in relation to
any matter within the jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission. (2) A court may
issue an order under paragraph (1) only upon a finding of a substantial need in the public interest.
(b) A person to whom a matter has been disclosed under this section shall not use such matter
other than for the purpose for which such disclosure was authorized. . . .
S. 647, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. (1990).
109
See, e.g., Section 21(b) of the Exchange Act.
110
The Clayton Act provides for nationwide service of process in civil as well as criminal antitrust actions
brought by the United States. See 15 U.S.C. § 23. Furthermore, although the Department of Justice has
nationwide service of process in criminal securities cases, the Commission does not have it in civil
securities cases.

46

VIII. Conclusion
The Study demonstrates that there are many areas of issuer financial reporting that
are susceptible to fraud, inappropriate manipulation or inappropriate earnings
management. Of the 227 enforcement matters studied, 126 involved improper revenue
recognition and 101 involved improper expense recognition.111 The majority of the 227
enforcement matters involved improper conduct by senior management of the relevant
issuers. Of the 227 enforcement matters during the Study period, 157 resulted in charges
against at least one senior manager. During the Study period, 135 of 227 issuers restated
their financials that related to the conduct in the enforcement matters.
In addition to improper revenue and expense recognition, the Study also found
that the Commission’s enforcement matters covered a wide variety of other improper
issuer financial reporting. Furthermore, the Study found that 57 enforcement matters
resulted in charges for auditing violations, often arising from auditors accepting
management representations without verification, truncating analytical and substantive
procedures, and failing to gain sufficient evidence regarding representations in issuer
financial statements.
The numbers discussed in this Report do not necessarily reflect their relative
importance in the Commission’s current and future Enforcement program. The
Commission has recently brought several actions based on several new areas of improper
issuer financial reporting.
In conclusion, the Commission recommends addressing two areas of issuer
disclosure: the uniform reporting of restatements of financial statements, and improved
MD&A disclosure. In addition, based on this Report, the Commission recommends the
enactment of legislation to: (1) allow companies to produce internal reports and other
documents pertaining to investigations without waiving any privileges; (2) provide access
by Commission staff to grand jury materials; and (3) provide for nationwide service of
process for testimony in Commission litigation. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act’s many
provisions, including the creation of the Board, coupled with the proposals included in
this Study, will enhance the Commission’s effectiveness in combating violations
involving issuer financial reporting.

111

As previously noted, most of the 227 enforcement matters involved more than one type of improper
conduct. Because of this overlap, it would not be meaningful to aggregate these numbers.

47

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

Year 1
In the Matter of Robert L. Gresham, CPA

08/05/1997

AAER-0943

34-38902

AP

In the Matter of James P. Brown

08/05/1997

AAER-0944

34-38903

AP

SEC v. Timothy Ross, et al.

08/27/1997

AAER-0945

LR-15460

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Ngai King Tak, et al.

08/28/1997

AAER-0946

34-38988

AP

SEC v. Irving M. Mangel, et al.

08/28/1997

AAER-0947

LR-15465

CIVINJ

SEC v. Mark K. Curry, et al.

09/04/1997

AAER-0950

LR-15470

CIVINJ

SEC v. Wyatt Gene Ross, et al.

09/04/1997

AAER-0951

LR-15474

CIVINJ

SEC v. Maury H. Joseph, et al.

09/08/1997

AAER-0959

LR-15487

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Mickie E. Higgins-Hallke, CPA

09/10/1997

AAER-0952

34-39039

AP

In the Matter of Wyatt Gene Ross

09/10/1997

AAER-0953

34-39040

AP

In the Matter of Lynn K. Ross

09/10/1997

AAER-0954

34-39041

AP

In the Matter of William B. Sanders, CPA

09/10/1997

AAER-0955

34-39045

AP

SEC v. Scientific Software-Intercomp, Inc.

09/11/1997

AAER-0956

LR-15485

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Timothy A. Ross, CPA

09/11/1997

AAER-0957

34-39051

AP

In the Matter of Douglas R. Coates, CPA

09/11/1997

AAER-0958

34-39052

AP

In the Matter of James R. Bryan, CPA

09/15/1997

AAER-0960

34-39077

AP

SEC v. Guido Volante, et al.

09/16/1997

In the Matter of Century Technologies, Inc.

09/16/1997

AAER-0961

34-39081

AP

In the Matter of David Hersh, CPA

09/18/1997

AAER-0962

34-39089

AP

In the Matter of Elliot Stumacher

09/24/1997

AAER-0963

34-39124

AP

In the Matter of Kedar Gupta, et al.

09/25/1997

AAER-0965

34-39128

AP

SEC v. Ferrofluidics Corporation, et al.

09/25/1997

AAER-0966

LR-15508

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Curtis L. Dally

09/29/1997

AAER-0967

34-39144

AP

In the Matter of Philip McInnes

09/30/1997

AAER-0968

34-39147

AP

In the Matter of Mary Brennan

09/30/1997

AAER-0969

34-39148

AP

In the Matter of Laser Photonics Inc.

09/30/1997

AAER-0971

34-39166

AP

In the Matter of John R. Alfson

09/30/1997

AAER-0972

34-39167

AP

SEC v. Mark T. Fukuhara, et al.

09/30/1997

AAER-0973

LR-15518

CIVINJ

SEC v. Jeffrey P. Sudikoff, et al.

09/30/1997

AAER-0974

LR-15522

CIVINJ

SEC v. Francis X. Wazeter, III, et al.

09/30/1997

AAER-0976

LR-15521

CIVINJ

CIVINJ

Page 1 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Pinnacle Micro, Inc., et al.

10/03/1997

AAER-0975

34-39194

AP

SEC v. James G. Hanley

10/06/1997

AAER-0977

LR-15527

CIVINJ

In the Matter of James Bogner, CPA

10/10/1997

AAER-0978

34-39228

AP

SEC v. Bond D. Fletcher, et al.

10/30/1997

AAER-0981

LR-15548

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Kenneth O'Neal, CPA, et al.

11/07/1997

AAER-0983

34-39314

AP

In the Matter of Bausch & Lomb, Incorporated, et al.

11/17/1997

AAER-0987

34-39329

AP

SEC v. John Logan

11/17/1997

AAER-0988

LR-15562

CIVINJ

SEC v. HealthTech International, Inc.

11/25/1997

AAER-0990

LR-15572

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Stephen P. Morin, CPA

12/01/1997

AAER-0991

34-39376

AP

In the Matter of Robert Gossett, et al.

12/01/1997

AAER-0992

34-39377

AP

SEC v. Peter T. Caserta, et al.

12/04/1997

AAER-0993

LR-15578

CIVINJ

In the Matter of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

12/04/1997

AAER-0994

34-39400

AP

SEC v. Sanjeev "Tony" Sachdeva, et al.

12/18/1997

AAER-0996

LR-15596

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Presstek, Inc.

12/22/1997

AAER-0997

34-39472

AP

SEC v. Robert Howard, et al.

12/22/1997

AAER-1001

LR-15599

CIVINJ

In the Matter of James A. Terrano, et al.

12/23/1997

AAER-0999

34-39485

AP

In the Matter of New Jersey Resources Corp., et al.

12/31/1997

AAER-1002

34-39506

AP

In the Matter of Oliver G. Richard III, et al.

12/31/1997

AAER-1003

34-39507

AP

SEC v. Russell C. Faust

01/20/1998

AAER-1006

LR-15624

CIVINJ

SEC v. Donald Ferrarini, et al.

01/29/1998

AAER-1008

LR-15629

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Paul G. Mount, CPA

01/30/1998

AAER-1010

34-39601

AP

SEC v. James Patrick Kittler

01/30/1998

AAER-1011

LR-15633

CIVINJ

SEC v. Sol Greenbaum, et al.

03/03/1998

AAER-1013

LR-15657

CIVINJ

SEC v. Robert B. Peltz

03/03/1998

AAER-1013

LR-15657

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Jerry Stone

03/10/1998

AAER-1015

34-39737

AP

SEC v. Raymond F. Simmons

03/19/1998

AAER-1016

LR-15677

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Sensormatic Electronics Corporation

03/25/1998

AAER-1017

34-39791

AP

In the Matter of Joy Lynn Schneider Green, CPA

03/25/1998

AAER-1018

34-39792

AP

In the Matter of Thomas H. Pike

03/25/1998

AAER-1019

34-39793

AP

SEC v. Ronald G. Assaf, et al.

03/25/1998

AAER-1020

LR-15680

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Peter F. Kuebler, CPA

03/25/1998

AAER-1021

34-39801

AP
Page 2 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Lee Pharmaceuticals, et al.

04/09/1998

AAER-1023

34-39843

AP

In the Matter of Lawrence J. Simmons, CPA

04/20/1998

AAER-1024

34-39888

AP

In the Matter of Michael W. Crow, CPA

04/22/1998

AAER-1025

34-39902

AP

In the Matter of Albert Glenn Yesner, CPA

04/27/1998

AAER-1027

34-39916

AP

In the Matter of Joseph Sanfellipo

04/27/1998

AAER-1028

34-39919

AP

In the Matter of Leslie Danish, CPA

04/30/1998

AAER-1030

34-39931

AP

In the Matter of William D. Tetsworth, Jr., CPA

05/04/1998

AAER-1031

34-39950

AP

SEC v. Arthur L. Toll, et al.

05/04/1998

AAER-1033

LR-15731

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Pepsi-Cola Puerto Rico Bottling

05/12/1998

AAER-1034

34-39984

AP

SEC v. Paul R. Safronchik, et al.

05/13/1998

AAER-1035

LR-15738

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Richard Valade, CPA

05/19/1998

AAER-1037

34-40002

AP

In the Matter of Jeffrey M. Steinberg, et al.

05/22/1998

AAER-1038

34-40025

AP

In the Matter of Warren J. Christensen, CPA, et al.

05/27/1998

AAER-1039

34-40029

AP

SEC v. Eugene McCloskey, et al.

06/04/1998

AAER-1040

LR-15767

CIVINJ

SEC v. Global Timber Corporation, et al.

06/08/1998

AAER-1043

LR-15774

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Thomas D. Leaper, CPA, et al.

06/17/1998

AAER-1044

34-40098

AP

SEC v. Guy Marcel De Vreese

06/17/1998

AAER-1045

LR-15784

CIVINJ

SEC v. William P. Trainor, et al.

06/18/1998

AAER-1046

LR-15786

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Paul R. Safronchik, CPA

06/22/1998

AAER-1047

34-40106

AP

SEC v. Charles T. Young, et al.

06/29/1998

AAER-1048

LR-15794

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Venator Group, Inc., et al.

06/29/1998

AAER-1049

34-40142

AP

In the Matter of Erick A. Gray

07/06/1998

34-40169

AP

In the Matter of Gaston E. Oxman

07/06/1998

34-40171

AP

In the Matter of Frank J. Cooney

07/06/1998

34-40170

AP

SEC v. Latin American Resources, Inc., et al.

07/08/1998

LR-15802

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Charles T. Young, CPA

07/08/1998

AAER-1052

34-40181

AP

SEC v. Paul C. Jain, et al.

07/09/1998

AAER-1053

LR-15803

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Ivor R. Ellul, et al.

07/30/1998

AAER-1056

34-40279

AP

In the Matter of Barbara J. Cavallo

07/30/1998

AAER-1057

34-40280

AP

SEC v. Ronald J. Hottovy, et al.

07/30/1998

AAER-1058

LR-15824

CIVINJ

AAER-1050

Page 3 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

Year 2
In the Matter of Maria Mei Wenner, CPA

07/31/1998

AAER-1059

34-40290

AP

In the Matter of Sony Corporation, et al.

08/05/1998

AAER-1061

34-40305

AP

SEC v. Sony Corporation

08/05/1998

AAER-1062

LR-15832

CIVO

In the Matter of Paul E. Nietzel, CPA

08/12/1998

AAER-1064

34-40320

AP

In the Matter of Frank Palumbo, CPA

08/19/1998

AAER-1067

34-40336

AP

SEC v. Jui-Teng Lin, et al.

09/03/1998

AAER-1071

LR-15870

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Steven M. Scarano, CPA

09/09/1998

AAER-1072

34-40413

AP

In the Matter of Charles N. Lipton, CPA

09/09/1998

AAER-1073

34-40414

AP

SEC v. Joseph DiMauro, et al.

09/09/1998

AAER-1075

LR-15874

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Audre Recognition Systems, Inc., et al.

09/17/1998

AAER-1076

34-40446

AP

SEC v. Thomas F. Casey

09/17/1998

AAER-1077

LR-15884

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Corrpro Companies, Inc., et al.

09/24/1998

AAER-1080

34-40476

AP

In the Matter of Donna Laubscher, CPA, et al.

09/29/1998

AAER-1082

34-40495

AP

SEC v. Steven J. Henke, et al.

09/30/1998

AAER-1083

LR-15919

CIVINJ

SEC v. John F. "Pete" Oliver, et al.

12/16/1998

AAER-1089

LR-16003

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Jean-Paul Bolduc, et al.

12/22/1998

AAER-1090

34-40819

AP

In the Matter of Steven M. Gross, CPA

12/29/1998

AAER-1093

34-40859

AP

In the Matter of Michael W. Roberts, CPA

12/29/1998

AAER-1094

34-40860

AP

SEC v. Garth H. Drabinsky, et al.

01/13/1999

LR-16022

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Livent, Inc.

01/13/1999

AAER-1095

34-40937

AP

In the Matter of Chistopher M. Craib, CA

01/13/1999

AAER-1096

34-40938

AP

In the Matter of Gordon C. Eckstein, CA

01/13/1999

AAER-1097

34-40939

AP

In the Matter of PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP

01/14/1999

AAER-1098

34-40945

AP

In the Matter of Tony Fiorino, CA

01/21/1999

AAER-1101

34-40958

AP

In the Matter of Donnkenny, Inc.

02/02/1999

AAER-1104

34-41012

AP

SEC v. Richard F. Rubin, et al.

02/02/1999

AAER-1105

LR-16051

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Madison Group Associates, Inc.

02/10/1999

34-41039

AP

In the Matter of Anthony J. Gentile

02/10/1999

AAER-1106

34-41037

AP

In the Matter of Miguel A. Cabrera, Jr., CPA, et al.

02/10/1999

AAER-1107

34-41038

AP

SEC v. William T. Craig, et al.

02/10/1999

AAER-1108

LR-16056

CIVINJ
Page 4 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Micro Component Technology Inc., et al.

02/11/1999

AAER-1109

34-41043

AP

SEC v. Robert S. Barton

02/23/1999

AAER-1112

LR-16068

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Sunrise Medical, Inc.

02/24/1999

AAER-1110

34-41096

AP

In the Matter of Sharon Longview, et al.

02/24/1999

AAER-1111

34-41097

AP

SEC v. Lynne K. Mercer

03/02/1999

AAER-1113

LR-16075

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Andrew L. O'Connell, CPA

03/05/1999

AAER-1114

34-41144

AP

In the Matter of Robert S. Barton, CPA

03/18/1999

AAER-1118

34-41181

AP

In the Matter of Charles E. Wessman

04/01/1999

AAER-1120

34-41239

AP

In the Matter of Carroll A. Wallace, CPA

04/01/1999

AAER-1121

34-41240

AP

In the Matter of Barry C. Scutillo, CPA, et al.

04/01/1999

AAER-1122

34-41241

AP

In the Matter of Frederick R. Grant, CPA

04/05/1999

AAER-1123

34-41255

AP

In the Matter of Kevin E. Orton, CPA, et al.

04/14/1999

AAER-1124

34-41283

AP

In the Matter of Michael, Adest & Blumenkrantz, PC, et al.

04/14/1999

AAER-1125

34-41284

AP

In the Matter of Terex Corporation, et al.

04/20/1999

AAER-1126

34-41312

AP

In the Matter of Larry L. Skaff, et al.

04/20/1999

AAER-1127

34-41313

AP

In the Matter of Jeff Bergman

04/21/1999

AAER-1128

34-41316

AP

SEC v. Mark A. DeSimone, et al.

04/21/1999

AAER-1129

LR-16115

CIVINJ

SEC v. David Gibbs, et al.

05/17/1999

In the Matter of Insignia Solutions PLC

05/17/1999

AAER-1133

34-41409

AP

In the Matter of Charles E. Falk, CPA

05/19/1999

AAER-1134

34-41424

AP

In the Matter of Moore Stephens, P.C., et al.

05/19/1999

AAER-1135

34-41425

AP

In the Matter of Dennis M. Gaito, CPA

05/19/1999

AAER-1136

34-41426

AP

SEC v. Joseph Sutton, et al.

05/27/1999

LR-16164

CIVO

In the Matter of Medisys Technologies, Inc.

06/24/1999

AAER-1139

34-41554

AP

In the Matter of of W.R. Grace & Co.

06/30/1999

AAER-1140

34-41578

AP

In the Matter of Eugene F. Gaughan, CPA

06/30/1999

AAER-1141

34-41580

AP

In the Matter of Thomas J. Scanlon, CPA

06/30/1999

AAER-1142

34-41581

AP

SEC v. Bruce J. Kingdon, et al.

07/19/1999

AAER-1143

LR-16214

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Micro Warehouse, Inc.

07/28/1999

AAER-1144

34-41665

AP

In the Matter of Richard I. Brewer, CPA

07/30/1999

AAER-1145

34-41676

AP

CIVINJ

Page 5 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

Year 3
In the Matter of American Telephone + Data, Inc.

08/02/1999

34-41681

AP

In the Matter of Gerald R. Hinshaw, CPA

08/02/1999

AAER-1147

34-41680

AP

SEC v. American Telephone + Data, Inc., et al.

08/02/1999

AAER-1148

LR-16232

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Jethro J. Barlow, CPA, et al.

08/02/1999

AAER-1149

34-41689

AP

In the Matter of Michael J. Marrie, CPA, et al.

08/10/1999

AAER-1151

34-41720

AP

In the Matter of Owen D. Taranta, CPA

08/11/1999

AAER-1150

34-41729

AP

SEC v. Jerald M. Banks

08/12/1999

AAER-1153

LR-16251

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Inamed Corporation

08/17/1999

AAER-1154

34-41751

AP

In the Matter of Jerald M. Banks

08/30/1999

AAER-1156

34-41806

AP

In the Matter of Herbert Woll, CPA

09/22/1999

AAER-1159

34-418974

AP

SEC v. Jose Carlos Villares, et al.

09/22/1999

AAER-1171

LR-16301

CIVINJ

SEC v. Mitchell C. Kahn, et al.

09/27/1999

AAER-1167

LR-16297

CIVINJ

SEC v. Jerry M. Walker, et al.

09/27/1999

AAER-1170

LR-16300

CIVINJ

SEC v. Itex Corporation, et al.

09/27/1999

AAER-1175

LR-16305

CIVINJ

SEC v. David E. Stevenson, et al.

09/27/1999

AAER-1185

LR-16308

CIVINJ

SEC v. Harold M. Ickovics, et al.

09/28/1999

LR-16309

CIVINJ

SEC v. Robert M. Cankes

09/28/1999

LR-16309

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Ricky D. Barkley

09/28/1999

AAER-1160

34-41923

AP

In the Matter of Steven R. Zemaitis, et al.

09/28/1999

AAER-1161

34-41924

AP

In the Matter of Raintree HealthCare Corporation, et al.

09/28/1999

AAER-1162

34-41925

AP

In the Matter of Joseph A. Mathes

09/28/1999

AAER-1163

34-41927

AP

In the Matter of Laura M. Drews

09/28/1999

AAER-1164

34-41928

AP

In the Matter of Stephen J. Pace

09/28/1999

AAER-1165

34-41929

AP

SEC v. Lawrence Borowiak

09/28/1999

AAER-1166

LR-16296

CIVINJ

SEC v. Mar-Jeanne Tendler, et al.

09/28/1999

AAER-1168

LR-16298

CIVINJ

SEC v. C.E.C. Industries Corporation, et al.

09/28/1999

AAER-1169

LR-16299

CIVINJ

SEC v. Bradley J. Buchanan

09/28/1999

AAER-1172

LR-16302

CIVINJ

SEC v. Noah Steinberg, et al.

09/28/1999

AAER-1173

LR-16303

CIVINJ

SEC v. Robert H. Sutton

09/28/1999

AAER-1174

LR-16304

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Material Sciences Corporation

09/28/1999

AAER-1176

34-41930

AP
Page 6 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Robert S. Chamberlain

09/28/1999

AAER-1177

34-41926

AP

SEC v. Computone Corporation, et.al.

09/28/1999

AAER-1178

LR-16307

CIVINJ

SEC v. Francis A. Tarkenton, et al.

09/28/1999

AAER-1179

LR-16306

CIVINJ

In the Matter of James D. Montgomery, II, et al.

09/28/1999

AAER-1180

34-41931

AP

In the Matter of Model Imperial, Inc.

09/28/1999

AAER-1181

34-41932

AP

In the Matter of Kenneth Schwartz, et al.

09/28/1999

AAER-1182

34-41933

AP

In the Matter of Paul Thomas Fink, CPA

09/28/1999

AAER-1183

34-41934

AP

In the Matter of Peter Madsen, et al.

09/28/1999

AAER-1184

34-41935

AP

SEC v. Peter Madsen, et al.

09/28/1999

AAER-1187

LR-16310

CIVO

SEC v. Fastcomm Communications Corporation

09/28/1999

AAER-1187

LR-16310

CIVINJ

SEC v. Charles L. DesLaurier

09/28/1999

AAER-1187

LR-16310

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Charles D. Ledford

09/29/1999

34-41941

AP

In the Matter of Michael Goldberg, CPA

09/30/1999

AAER-1189

34-41952

AP

In the Matter of Thor Industries, Inc.

10/18/1999

AAER-1190

34-42021

AP

In the Matter of Jerry M. Walker, CPA

10/18/1999

AAER-1191

34-42022

AP

In the Matter of David E. Stevenson

10/19/1999

AAER-1192

34-42031

AP

In the Matter of Lee R. Fontaine, CPA

10/21/1999

AAER-1194

34-42045

AP

In the Matter of Rick W. Gossett, CPA

10/21/1999

AAER-1195

34-42046

AP

In the Matter of Stephen J. Kesh, CPA

10/21/1999

AAER-1196

34-42047

AP

SEC v. ABS Industries, Inc., et al.

10/27/1999

AAER-1197

LR-16344

CIVINJ

In the Matter of PairGain Technologies, Inc.

11/08/1999

AAER-1204

34-42114

AP

In the Matter of Jimmy L. Duckworth

11/10/1999

AAER-1205

34-42124

AP

In the Matter of Joseph Salamon

11/10/1999

AAER-1207

34-42125

AP

In the Matter of The Cronos Group

11/15/1999

AAER-1208

34-42139

AP

SEC v. Accelr8 Technology Corporation, et al.

11/16/1999

AAER-1209

LR-16354

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Michael J. Hooper, CPA

11/19/1999

AAER-1210

34-42157

AP

SEC v. Solucorp Industries, Ltd., et al.

12/13/1999

AAER-1213

LR-16388

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Jose E. Rivera, CPA

12/14/1999

AAER-1212

34-42229

AP

In the Matter of Informix Corporation

01/11/2000

AAER-1215

34-42326

AP

In the Matter of Edward Welch

01/24/2000

AAER-1217

34-42355

AP

In the Matter of William L. Clancy

02/07/2000

AAER-1220

34-42392

AP
Page 7 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Robert L. Norton

02/07/2000

AAER-1222

34-42399

AP

In the Matter of Joseph M. Morris

02/10/2000

AAER-1223

34-42410

AP

In the Matter of Joseph E. Williams

02/10/2000

AAER-1225

34-42412

AP

SEC v. Robert B. Anacone

02/29/2000

AAER-1233

LR-16457

CIVINJ

SEC v. Donald K. McGhan

03/08/2000

AAER-1234

LR-16466

CIVINJ

In the Matter of H. DeWorth Williams

03/20/2000

AAER-1235

34-42547

AP

In the Matter of Jeremy G. Dunne

03/20/2000

AAER-1236

34-42548

AP

In the Matter of Laser Technology, Inc.

03/20/2000

AAER-1237

34-42549

AP

SEC v. David W. Williams, et al.

03/20/2000

AAER-1238

LR-16476

CIVINJ

SEC v. Eric A. Furman, et al.

03/22/2000

AAER-1239

LR-16480

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Jill Pitts, et al.

03/23/2000

AAER-1240

34-42569

AP

SEC v. Digital Lightwave, Inc., et al.

03/29/2000

LR-16491A

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Nanette Miller, CPA

03/29/2000

AAER-1241

34-42586

AP

In the Matter of Beth A. Morris, et al.

03/29/2000

AAER-1243

34-42587

AP

In the Matter of Seth P. Joseph

03/29/2000

AAER-1244

34-42588

AP

SEC v. Allen K. Deary, et al.

04/13/2000

AAER-1246

LR-16516

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Peritus Software Services, Inc.

04/13/2000

AAER-1247

34-42673

AP

In the Matter of Stephen H. Spargo, CPA

05/02/2000

AAER-1252

34-42742

AP

In the Matter of Albert Adamczak, CPA

05/02/2000

AAER-1253

34-42743

AP

SEC v. David W. McConnell, et al.

05/02/2000

AAER-1254

LR-16534

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Cynthia Pfaltzgraff

05/03/2000

AAER-1255

34-42753

AP

In the Matter of America Online, Inc.

05/15/2000

AAER-1257

34-42781

AP

SEC v. America Online, Inc.

05/15/2000

AAER-1258

LR-16552

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Intile Designs, Inc.

05/23/2000

AAER-1259

34-42813

AP

SEC v. C. William Cox

05/23/2000

AAER-1262

LR-16562

CIVINJ

In the Matter of R. Gordon Jones, et al.

05/25/2000

AAER-1261

34-42828

AP

In the Matter of Samuel L. White, CPA

06/01/2000

AAER-1263

34-42879

AP

In the Matter of Eric P. Furman, CPA

06/06/2000

AAER-1267

34-42901

AP

In the Matter of Firstmark Corp.

06/08/2000

AAER-1270

34-42909

AP

In the Matter of Scott E. Edwards, CPA

06/08/2000

AAER-1271

34-42910

AP

In the Matter of Cendant Corporation

06/14/2000

AAER-1272

34-42933

AP
Page 8 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Paul Hiznay

06/14/2000

AAER-1273

34-42934

AP

In the Matter of Steven Speaks, CPA

06/14/2000

AAER-1274

34-42935

AP

In the Matter of Mary Sattler Polverari, CPA

06/14/2000

AAER-1275

34-42936

AP

SEC v. Cosmo Corigliano, et al.

06/14/2000

AAER-1276

LR-16587

CIVINJ

SEC v. Mary Sattler Polverari, CPA

06/14/2000

AAER-1276

LR-16587

CIVINJ

SEC v. Steven Speaks

06/14/2000

AAER-1276

LR-16587

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Waste Management, Inc.

06/21/2000

AAER-1277

34-42968

AP

In the Matter of Schnitzer & Kondub, PC, et al.

06/23/2000

AAER-1278

34-42979

AP

SEC v. DCI Telecommunications, Inc., et al.

06/23/2000

AAER-1279

LR-16609

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Gregory A. Alba, CPA

06/26/2000

AAER-1280

34-42981

AP

In the Matter of Ronald G. Davies

06/28/2000

AAER-1281

34-42987

AP

SEC v. Hybrid Networks, Inc., et al.

06/29/2000

AAER-1282

LR-16614

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Allegheny Health, Education and
Research Foundation

06/30/2000

AAER-1283

34-42992

AP

SEC v. Michael A. Puhr

07/06/2000

AAER-1286

LR-16625

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Kevin T. Kearney, CPA

07/13/2000

AAER-1284

34-43034

AP

SEC v. System Software Associates, Inc., et al.

07/13/2000

AAER-1285

LR-16627

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Guilford Mills, Inc.

07/24/2000

AAER-1287

34-43068

AP

SEC v. Timothy J. Gaffney

07/24/2000

AAER-1288

LR-16634

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Steven Wolis

08/04/2000

AAER-1290

34-43123

AP

In the Matter of Axel E. Friedberg, et al.

08/08/2000

AAER-1291

34-43129

AP

SEC v. Stefan M. Palatin

08/08/2000

AAER-1292

LR-16645

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Herbert M. Campbell, II., Esq.

08/10/2000

34-43136

AP

In the Matter of William J. McClintock, CA

08/16/2000

AAER-1293

34-43160

AP

In the Matter of Boston Scientific Corporation

08/21/2000

AAER-1295

34-43183

AP

In the Matter of Theodore Ursu III, CPA

09/06/2000

AAER-1298

34-43249

AP

In the Matter of Pier 1 Imports, Inc.

09/19/2000

AAER-1303

34-43301

AP

SEC v. Ronald R. Charnock, et al.

09/19/2000

AAER-1304

LR-16709

CIVINJ

SEC v. Robert G. Herndon

09/19/2000

AAER-1305

LR-16710

CIVINJ

SEC v. Clifford E. Hotte, et al.

09/21/2000

AAER-1308

LR-16722

CIVINJ

Year 4

Page 9 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Rudy Wann

09/22/2000

AAER-1306

34-43326

AP

In the Matter of Edward Cheramy

09/22/2000

AAER-1307

34-43327

AP

In the Matter of Acclaim Entertainment, Inc., et al.

09/26/2000

AAER-1309

34-43340

AP

SEC v. James Murphy, et al.

09/26/2000

AAER-1310

LR-16725

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Centennial Technologies, Inc.

09/26/2000

AAER-1311

34-43345

AP

SEC v. Countryland Wellness Resorts, Inc., et al.

09/26/2000

AAER-1327

LR-16732

CIVINJ

SEC v. John Daws, et al.

09/27/2000

AAER-1312

LR-16728

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Cylink Corporation

09/27/2000

AAER-1313

34-43357

AP

In the Matter of Premier Laser Systems, Inc.

09/27/2000

AAER-1314

34-43358

AP

In the Matter of YourBankOnline.com, et al.

09/27/2000

AAER-1315

34-43359

AP

In the Matter of Countryland Wellness Resorts, Inc.

09/27/2000

AAER-1316

34-43360

AP

In the Matter of Bonnie K. Metz

09/27/2000

AAER-1317

34-43361

AP

In the Matter of Craig Consumer Electronics, Inc.

09/27/2000

AAER-1318

34-43362

AP

In the Matter of Isaac Hager

09/27/2000

AAER-1319

34-43366

AP

SEC v. Michael L. Hiebert

09/27/2000

AAER-1324

LR-16729

CIVINJ

SEC v. Maurice B. Newman, et al.

09/27/2000

AAER-1325

LR-16730

CIVINJ

SEC v. Richard I. Berger, et al.

09/27/2000

AAER-1326

LR-16731

CIVINJ

SEC v. Matthew R. Welch, et al.

09/27/2000

AAER-1328

LR-16734

CIVINJ

SEC v. Jay Gilbertson, et al.

09/28/2000

AAER-1329

LR-16743

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Drew Bergman, CPA

09/29/2000

AAER-1321

34-43388

AP

In the Matter of Luis E. Gomez, CPA

09/29/2000

AAER-1322

34-43389

AP

In the Matter of Donald C. Yount, CPA

09/29/2000

AAER-1323

34-43391

AP

SEC v. Walter Konigseder

10/05/2000

AAER-1330

LR-16757

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Engineering Animation, Inc., et al.

10/05/2000

AAER-1332

34-43416

AP

SEC v. Michael J. Jablo

10/05/2000

AAER-1333

LR-16753

CIVO

In the Matter of Victor Douenias

10/16/2000

AAER-1334

34-43445

AP

In the Matter of Robert G. Herndon

10/16/2000

AAER-1336

34-43446

AP

In the Matter of Pat A. Rossetti, et al.

10/31/2000

AAER-1338

34-43497

AP

In the Matter of Horton & Company, et al.

10/31/2000

AAER-1339

34-43498

AP

SEC v. Aviation Distributors Inc., et al.

11/07/2000

AAER-1340

LR-16792

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Louis R. Hidalgo, Jr., CPA

11/08/2000

AAER-1341

34-43531

AP
Page 10 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Donald E. Studer

11/08/2000

AAER-1342

34-43532

AP

In the Matter of Per-Se Technologies, Inc. formerly known
as Medaphis Corporation

11/16/2000

AAER-1343

34-43570

AP

In the Matter of Glen Donald Lang

11/16/2000

AAER-1344

34-43571

AP

In the Matter of James Steele Douglass

11/16/2000

AAER-1345

34-43572

AP

In the Matter of Barry H. Peterson-Ross

11/22/2000

AAER-1346

34-43609

AP

In the Matter of Detour Magazine, Inc.

11/22/2000

AAER-1347

34-43610

AP

In the Matter of Monarch Investment Properties, Inc., et
al.

12/06/2000

AAER-1349

34-43682

AP

In the Matter of MicroStrategy, Inc.

12/14/2000

AAER-1350

34-43724

AP

In the Matter of Antoinette A. Parsons, et al.

12/14/2000

AAER-1351

34-43725

AP

SEC v. Michael Jerry Saylor, et al.

12/14/2000

AAER-1352

LR-16829

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Saf T Lok, Inc.

12/20/2000

34-43753

AP

SEC v. Franklin W. Brooks, et al.

12/20/2000

AAER-1354

LR-16835

CIVINJ

In the Matter of International Business Machines
Corporation

12/21/2000

AAER-1355

34-43761

AP

SEC v. International Business Machines Corporation

12/21/2000

AAER-1356

LR-16839

CIVO

In the Matter of Transcrypt International, Inc.

01/04/2001

AAER-1358

34-43809

AP

In the Matter of Mark Steven Lynch, CPA

01/17/2001

AAER-1359

34-43850

AP

SEC v. Aurora Foods Inc., et al.

01/23/2001

AAER-1361

LR-16866

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Linda Mueller

01/24/2001

AAER-1362

34-43877

AP

In the Matter of Swart, Baumruk & Co., LLP, et al.

01/25/2001

AAER-1363

34-43883

AP

In the Matter of Charles P. Morrison, CPA

01/31/2001

AAER-1364

34-43910

AP

SEC v. Jeffrey L. Fuller, et al.

02/05/2001

AAER-1367

LR-16887

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Computron Software, Inc.

02/14/2001

AAER-1370

34-43959

AP

SEC v. Walter A. Forbes, et al.

02/28/2001

AAER-1372

LR-16910

CIVINJ

SEC v. Amazon Natural Treasures, et al.

03/02/2001

AAER-1375

LR-16924

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Kevin E. Orton, CPA

03/12/2001

AAER-1376

34-44064

AP

In the Matter of National Steel Corporation

03/29/2001

AAER-1378

34-44130

AP

In the Matter of Carl M. Apel

03/30/2001

AAER-1379

34-44136

AP

SEC v. John N. Brincat, et al.

04/16/2001

AAER-1381

LR-16962

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Bruce J. Kingdon, et al.

04/18/2001

AAER-1383

34-44193

AP

Page 11 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

SEC v. Nunzio P. DeSantis

05/01/2001

In the Matter of Craig R. Clark, CPA

05/07/2001

In the Matter of Sunbeam Corporation

AAER #

Release #

Type

LR-16985

CIVINJ

AAER-1391

34-44270

AP

05/15/2001

AAER-1393

34-44305

AP

In the Matter of David C. Fannin

05/15/2001

AAER-1394

33-7977

AP

SEC v. Albert J. Dunlap, et al.

05/15/2001

AAER-1395

LR-17001

CIVINJ

SEC v. Allan Boren, et al.

05/15/2001

AAER-1396

LR-17002

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Microtest, Inc.

05/16/2001

AAER-1397

34-44308

AP

SEC v. Richard P. Smyth, et al.

05/25/2001

AAER-1414

LR-17044

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Am-Pac International, Inc.

06/05/2001

AAER-1401

34-44389

AP

SEC v. Am-Pac International, Inc., et al.

06/05/2001

AAER-1403

LR-17024

CIVINJ

In the Matter of James Thomas McCurdy, CPA

06/14/2001

AAER-1404

34-44425

AP

SEC v. Ron Messenger, et al.

06/18/2001

AAER-1411

LR-17042

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Arthur Andersen LLP

06/19/2001

AAER-1405

34-44444

AP

In the Matter of Robert E. Allgyer, CPA

06/19/2001

AAER-1406

34-44445

AP

In the Matter of Edward G. Maier, CPA

06/19/2001

AAER-1407

34-44446

AP

In the Matter of Walter Cercavschi, CPA

06/19/2001

AAER-1408

34-44447

AP

In the Matter of Robert G. Kutsenda, CPA

06/19/2001

AAER-1409

34-44448

AP

SEC v. Arthur Andersen LLP, et al.

06/19/2001

AAER-1410

LR-17039

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Michael J. Becker

06/21/2001

AAER-1412

34-44460

AP

In the Matter of J. Allen Seymour, CPA

06/21/2001

AAER-1413

34-44461

AP

In the Matter of American Classic Voyages Co.

06/25/2001

AAER-1416

34-44473

AP

In the Matter of Scott K. Barton, CPA

07/02/2001

AAER-1417

34-44500

AP

In the Matter of James T. Rush

07/02/2001

AAER-1418

34-44501

AP

In the Matter of American Bank Note Holographics, Inc.

07/18/2001

AAER-1422

34-44563

AP

In the Matter of John Lerlo

07/18/2001

AAER-1423

34-44564

AP

In the Matter of Mark Goldberg, CPA

07/18/2001

AAER-1424

34-44565

AP

SEC v. American Banknote Corporation

07/18/2001

AAER-1425

LR-17068

CIVINJ

SEC v. Antonio Accornero, et al.

07/18/2001

AAER-1425

LR-17068

CIVINJ

SEC v. American Bank Note Holographics, Inc.

07/18/2001

AAER-1425

LR-17068

CIVINJ

SEC v. Morris Weissman, et al.

07/18/2001

AAER-1425

LR-17068

CIVINJ

SEC v. Richard Macchiarulo

07/18/2001

AAER-1425

LR-17068

CIVINJ
Page 12 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Richard P. Macchiarulo, CPA

07/20/2001

AAER-1426

34-44581

AP

SEC v. Edward J. Kiley, et al.

07/23/2001

AAER-1427

LR-17074

CIVINJ

In the Matter of BankAmerica Corp. (n/k/a Bank of
America Corp.)

07/30/2001

AAER-1429

34-44613

AP

In the Matter of MAX Internet Communications, Inc.

08/01/2001

AAER-1430

34-44633

AP

SEC v. William F. Buettner, et al.

08/01/2001

AAER-1431

LR-17083

CIVINJ

SEC v. Larry Biggs, Jr., et al.

08/01/2001

AAER-1432

LR-17084

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Leslie D. Crone, CPA

08/16/2001

AAER-1434

34-44711

AP

In the Matter of Salvatore T. Marino

09/04/2001

AAER-1435

34-44761

AP

In the Matter of Indus International, Inc.

09/05/2001

AAER-1437

34-44764

AP

In the Matter of Carl Albano

09/05/2001

AAER-1438

34-44765

AP

SEC v. William Grabske, et al.

09/05/2001

AAER-1439

LR-17116

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Walter T. Reeder

09/10/2001

AAER-1441

34-44779

AP

In the Matter of George Kelly Moore

09/10/2001

AAER-1442

34-44781

AP

SEC v. Patrick L. Swisher, et al.

09/10/2001

AAER-1443

LR-17123

CIVINJ

SEC v. Eric L. Mattson, et al.

09/11/2001

AAER-1445

LR-17126

CIVINJ

USA and SEC v. KPMG Siddharta Siddharta & Harsono,
et al.

09/11/2001

AAER-1446

LR-17127

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Baker Hughes Incorporated

09/12/2001

AAER-1444

34-44784

AP

In the Matter of Robert M. Fuller

09/17/2001

AAER-1447

34-44806

AP

In the Matter of Madera International, Inc.

09/19/2001

AAER-1449

34-44814

AP

In the Matter of Regina Fernandez

09/19/2001

AAER-1450

34-44815

AP

In the Matter of Ralph Sanchez, CPA

09/19/2001

AAER-1451

34-44816

AP

In the Matter of Harlan & Boettger, LLP, et al.

09/19/2001

AAER-1452

34-44817

AP

SEC v. Regina Fernandez

09/19/2001

AAER-1453

LR-17140

CIVINJ

SEC v. Madera International, Inc., et al.

09/19/2001

AAER-1453

LR-17140

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Gunther International, Ltd.

09/25/2001

AAER-1454

34-44842

AP

SEC v. TELnetgo2000, Inc., et al.

09/26/2001

LR-17160

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Charles K. Springer, CPA, et al.

09/27/2001

AAER-1456

34-44858

AP

In the Matter of Joseph H. Kiser

09/27/2001

AAER-1457

34-44859

AP

SEC v. Stephen L. Holden, et al.

09/27/2001

AAER-1458

LR-17156

CIVINJ

Year 5

Page 13 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Paul S. Jurewicz

09/27/2001

AAER-1459

34-44860

AP

SEC v. Vari-L Company, Inc., et al.

09/27/2001

AAER-1460

LR-17155

CIVINJ

SEC v. Jay Lapine

09/27/2001

AAER-1467

LR-17189

CIVINJ

SEC v. Michael G. Smeraski, et al.

09/27/2001

AAER-1467

LR-17189

CIVINJ

SEC v. Trans Energy, Inc., et al.

09/28/2001

LR-17159

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Chiquita Brands International, Inc.

10/03/2001

AAER-1463

34-44902

AP

SEC v. Chiquita Brands International, Inc.

10/03/2001

AAER-1464

LR-17169

CIVINJ

SEC v. AremisSoft Corporation, et al.

10/04/2001

AAER-1465

LR-17172

CIVINJ

In the Matter of NexPub, Inc. (f/k/a PrintontheNet.com,
Inc.)

10/18/2001

AAER-1469

34-44951

AP

In the Matter of Seaboard Corporation

10/23/2001

AAER-1470

34-44969

AP21AR

In the Matter of Gisela de Leon-Meredith

10/23/2001

AAER-1471

34-44970

AP

In the Matter of a Registration Statement of Toks, Inc.

11/13/2001

33-8032

AP

In the Matter of Pinnacle Holdings, Inc.

12/06/2001

AAER-1476

34-45135

AP

In the Matter of Corrine Davies

12/14/2001

AAER-1478

34-45158

AP

In the Matter of Timothy Tuttle

12/14/2001

AAER-1479

34-45159

AP

SEC v. R. Bruce Acacio

12/18/2001

AAER-1484

LR-17292

CIVINJ

SEC v. Nelson Barber

12/27/2001

AAER-1480

LR-17291

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Rachel Eckhaus, CPA

12/27/2001

AAER-1481

34-45195

AP

In the Matter of Jeffrey Bacsik, CPA

12/27/2001

AAER-1482

34-45196

AP

In the Matter of Barbara Horvath

12/27/2001

AAER-1483

34-45197

AP

In the Matter of California Software Corporation

01/07/2002

AAER-1486

34-45242

AP

In the Matter of Carol Conway DeWees

01/07/2002

AAER-1487

34-45243

AP

In the Matter of James E. Slayton

01/07/2002

AAER-1488

34-42545

AP

SEC v. David C. Guenthner, et al.

01/08/2002

AAER-1489

LR-17297

CIVINJ

In the Matter of KPMG LLP

01/14/2002

AAER-1491

34-45272

AP

SEC v. Michael A. Porter

01/14/2002

AAER-1493

LR-17309

CIVINJ

In the Matter of BellSouth Corporation

01/15/2002

AAER-1494

34-45279

AP

SEC v. BellSouth Corporation

01/15/2002

AAER-1495

LR-17310

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Nelson Barber, CPA

01/15/2002

AAER-1496

34-45280

AP

In the Matter of Trump Hotels & Casino Resorts, Inc.

01/16/2002

AAER-1499

34-45287

AP

Page 14 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

SEC v. Thomas W. Lambach

01/16/2002

AAER-1500

LR-17319

CIVINJ

In the Matter of CyberGuard Corporation, et al.

01/30/2002

AAER-1501

34-45362

AP

SEC v. Patrick O. Wheeler, et al.

01/30/2002

AAER-1502

LR-17346

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Critical Path, Inc.

02/05/2002

AAER-1503

34-45393

AP

SEC v. David A. Thatcher, et al.

02/05/2002

AAER-1504

LR-17353

CIVINJ

In the Matter of William Warner, et al.

02/13/2002

AAER-1501

34-45441

AP

SEC v. International Thoroughbred Breeders, Inc., et al.

02/13/2002

AAER-1506

LR-17361

CIVINJ

In the Matter of JDN Realty Corporation

02/20/2002

AAER-1507

34-45458

AP

SEC v. J. Donald Nichols, et al.

02/20/2002

AAER-1508

LR-17366

CIVINJ

SEC v. Eagle Building Technologies, Inc., et al.

03/01/2002

LR-17389

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Kevin R. Andersen

03/05/2002

AAER-1510

34-45502

AP

In the Matter of Telxon Corporation, et al.

03/05/2002

AAER-1511

34-45507

AP

SEC v. Kenneth W. Haver

03/05/2002

AAER-1512

LR-17394

CIVINJ

In the Matter of James E. Slayton, CPA

03/06/2002

AAER-1513

34-45509

AP

SEC v. Raece Richardson, et al.

03/06/2002

AAER-1514

LR-17397

CIVINJ

SEC v. Paul Skulsky, et al.

03/12/2002

AAER-1516

LR-17407

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Frederick W. Kolling III, CPA

03/12/2002

AAER-1517

34-45550

AP

In the Matter of William A. Dickson, et al.

03/12/2002

AAER-1518

34-45551

AP

In the Matter of Donald J. MacPhee

03/12/2002

AAER-1519

34-45552

AP

In the Matter of IGI, Inc.

03/12/2002

AAER-1520

34-45553

AP

SEC v. John P. Gallo

03/13/2002

AAER-1521

LR-17410

CIVINJ

SEC v. Lawrence N. Zitto

03/13/2002

AAER-1521

LR-17410

CIVINJ

SEC v. Donald J. MacPhee

03/13/2002

AAER-1521

LR-17410

CIVO

In the Matter of Timothy S. Heyerdahl, CPA

03/18/2002

AAER-1522

34-45586

AP

In the Matter of David Held, CPA

03/18/2002

AAER-1523

34-45587

AP

In the Matter of Elaine A. Decker, CPA

03/18/2002

AAER-1524

34-45588

AP

SEC v. First Florida Communications, Inc., et al.

03/21/2002

LR-17437

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Keith Spero

03/21/2002

AAER-1526

34-45611

AP

In the Matter of Frank Valdez

03/21/2002

AAER-1527

34-45612

AP

In the Matter of Harlan Schier

03/21/2002

AAER-1528

34-45613

AP

In the Matter of Daniel Parker

03/21/2002

AAER-1529

34-45614

AP
Page 15 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Uri Evan, et al.

03/21/2002

AAER-1530

34-45615

AP

SEC v. Harold J. Macsata

03/21/2002

AAER-1531

LR-17426

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Douglas E. Costa

03/25/2002

34-45636

AP

SEC v. Dean L. Buntrock, et al.

03/26/2002

AAER-1532

LR-17435

CIVINJ

SEC v. Dale Peterson, et al

03/26/2002

AAER-1535

LR-17439

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Kimberly-Clark Corporation, et al.

03/27/2002

AAER-1533

34-45653

AP

In the Matter of Signal Technology Corporation

03/27/2002

AAER-1534

34-45655

AP

SEC v. Leonard J. Guida

03/28/2002

LR-17448

CIVINJ

SEC v. Les B. Strauss

03/28/2002

LR-17448

CIVO

In the Matter of PictureTel Corp., et al.

03/28/2002

AAER-1536

34-45665

AP

In the Matter of David T. Dodge

03/28/2002

AAER-1537

34-45666

AP

In the Matter of David A. Thatcher

04/02/2002

AAER-1539

34-45683

AP

SEC v. Michael Paloma, et al.

04/08/2002

LR-17462

CIVINJ

SEC v. Xerox Corporation

04/11/2002

LR-17465

CIVINJ

SEC v. Byron Robert Lerner

04/22/2002

LR-17481

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Teltran International Group, Ltd.

04/22/2002

AAER-1543

34-45796

AP

In the Matter of Michael R. Drogin, CPA

04/22/2002

AAER-1545

34-45797

AP

SEC v. Patrick Quinlan, et al.

04/23/2002

AAER-1546

LR-17484

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Kenneth W. Haver, CPA

04/24/2002

AAER-1547

34-45814

AP

SEC v. G. Matthias Heinzelmann, III

04/25/2002

AAER-1549

LR-17491

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Surety Capital Corporation

04/25/2002

AAER-1550

34-45826

AP

In the Matter of Serologicals Corporation, Inc.

05/01/2002

AAER-1551

34-45852

AP

In the Matter of Michael A. Kolberg, et al.

05/01/2002

AAER-1552

34-45853

AP

SEC v. Carl E. Putnam, et al.

05/06/2002

AAER-1554

LR-17504

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Edison Schools, Inc.

05/14/2002

AAER-1555

34-45925

AP

SEC v. Reza Mikailli, et al.

05/20/2002

LR-17522

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Legato Systems, Inc., et al.

05/20/2002

AAER-1557

34-45962

AP

In the Matter of Ernst & Young LLP

05/20/2002

AAER-1558

34-45964

AP

SEC v. Alan K. Anderson

05/20/2002

AAER-1560

LR-17521

CIVINJ

SEC v. David Malmstedt, et al.

05/20/2002

AAER-1561

LR-17524

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Microsoft Corporation

06/03/2002

AAER-1563

34-46017

AP

AAER-1542

Page 16 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action

Exhibit A
Date Filed

AAER #

Release #

Type

In the Matter of Advanced Technical Products, Inc., et al.

06/05/2002

AAER-1564

34-46030

AP

In the Matter of Katrina Krug, CPA

06/05/2002

AAER-1565

34-46031

AP

In the Matter of John K. Bradley

06/05/2002

AAER-1568

34-46035

AP

SEC v. John F. Mortell, et al.

06/05/2002

AAER-1569

LR-17542

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Korea Data Systems USA, Inc., et al.

06/07/2002

AAER-1571

34-46047

AP

In the Matter of Gerald S. Papazian

06/07/2002

AAER-1572

34-46048

AP

In the Matter of Ashford.com, Inc., et al.

06/10/2002

AAER-1573

34-46052

AP

SEC v. Kenneth E. Kurtzman, et al.

06/10/2002

AAER-1574

LR-17550

CIVO

SEC v. Aura Systems, Inc., et al.

06/11/2002

AAER-1575

LR-17557

CIVINJ

SEC v. Gerald S. Papazian

06/11/2002

AAER-1575

LR-17557

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Rite Aid Corporation

06/21/2002

AAER-1579

34-46099

AP

In the Matter of Timothy J. Noonan

06/21/2002

AAER-1580

34-46100

AP

SEC v. Frank M. Bergonzi, et al.

06/21/2002

AAER-1581

LR-17577

CIVINJ

SEC v. Richard P. Vatcher

06/21/2002

AAER-1582

LR-17578

CIVINJ

SEC v. Bruce Hill, et al.

06/21/2002

AAER-1582

LR-17578

CIVINJ

SEC v. WorldCom, Inc.

06/26/2002

AAER-1585

LR-17588

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Moret Ernst & Young Accountants (n/k/a
Ernst & Young Accountants)

06/27/2002

AAER-1584

34-46130

AP

In the Matter of Peter D. Stewart, C.A., et al.

07/02/2002

AAER-1587

34-46157

AP

In the Matter of Thomas F. Wraback, CPA

07/09/2002

AAER-1588

34-46172

AP

In the Matter of Gregory D. Norton, CPA

07/09/2002

AAER-1589

34-46174

AP

In the Matter of Glen P. Duffy, CPA

07/09/2002

AAER-1590

34-46175

AP

In the Matter of Steven C. Veen

07/10/2002

AAER-1591

34-46177

AP

SEC v. Intelliquis International, Inc., et al.

07/12/2002

AAER-1592

LR-17611

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Avon Products, Inc.

07/17/2002

AAER-1595

34-46215

AP

In the Matter of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, et al.

07/17/2002

AAER-1596

34-46216

AP

In the Matter of The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.

07/18/2002

AAER-1597

34-46225

AP

SEC v. Adelphia Communications Corporation, et al.

07/24/2002

AAER-1599

LR-17627

CIVINJ

In the Matter of Oxford Health Plans, Inc., et al.

07/25/2002

AAER-1600

34-46254

AP

SEC v. Oxford Health Plans, Inc.

07/25/2002

AAER-1601

LR-17631

CIVO

In the Matter of Eric C. Brown

07/29/2002

AAER-1602

34-46273

AP

Page 17 of 18

Listing of Actions
Action
SEC v. Douglas A. Murphy, et al.

Exhibit A
Date Filed
07/30/2002

AAER #
AAER-1607

Release #
LR-17651

Type
CIVINJ

Page 18 of 18

