IN THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT
_____________________________________________________

No. 06-30100
_____________________________________________
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
PLAINTIFF-APPELLANT,
v.
J. KENNETH STRINGER, III, ET AL.
DEFENDANTS-APPELLEES.
_____________________________________________
On Appeal from the United States District Court
for the District of Oregon
THE HONORABLE ANCER L. HAGGERTY
CHIEF UNITED STATES DISTRICT JUDGE
CG 03-432-HA
_____________________________________________
BRIEF OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION,
AMICUS CURIAE, IN SUPPORT OF APPELLANT’S BRIEF
SEEKING REVERSAL AND REMAND
_____________________________________________
BRIAN G. CARTWRIGHT
General Counsel
RICHARD M. HUMES
Associate General Counsel
`

MELINDA HARDY
Assistant General Counsel
TIMOTHY N. MCGAREY
Special Trial Counsel
JOHN P. SHOLAR
Special Trial Counsel
Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, D.C. 20549
(202) 551-5140

INTEREST OF THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
The Commission is the law enforcement agency specifically charged by
Congress with civil enforcement of the federal securities laws.1/ See Securities Act
of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Sections 19 & 20, 15 U.S.C. 77s, 77t; Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Section 21, 15 U.S.C. 78u; SEC v.
Dresser Industries, Inc., 628 F.2d 1368, 1390 (D.C. Cir. 1980). With the
exception of criminal violations, which must be prosecuted by the Department of
Justice (“DOJ”), the Commission is empowered to investigate and prosecute all
violations of the securities laws by any person or entity it believes may have
committed a violation, including individuals, public companies, securities
exchanges, broker dealers, investment advisors and mutual funds. See, e.g.,
Exchange Act, Section 21(a), 15 U.S.C. 78u(a) (“The Commission may, in its
discretion, make such investigations as it deems necessary to determine whether
any person has violated, is violating, or is about to violate any provision of this
chapter”). Among the violations the Commission investigates and prosecutes are
insider trading, accounting fraud, and providing false or misleading information
about securities or about public companies that issue securities.
When a Commission investigation produces evidence of a violation of the

1/

As an agency of the United States, the Commission may file an amicus curiae
brief without the consent of the parties or leave of court. Fed. R. App. P. 29(a).

federal securities laws, the Commission may bring a civil enforcement action to
obtain appropriate relief, including cease and desist orders, civil penalties,
disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, injunctions prohibiting future wrongdoing, or
orders barring violators from participating in the securities industry or serving as
officers and directors of public companies. The Commission brings only civil
actions as it does not have authority to bring criminal proceedings. See Securities
Act, Section 20(b), 15 U.S.C. 77t(b); Exchange Act, Section 21(d), 15 U.S.C.
78u(d). However, the Securities Act and the Exchange Act both specifically
provide that the Commission may transmit evidence of a violation of the securities
laws “to the Attorney General, who may, in his discretion, institute the necessary
criminal proceedings under this title.” Id. The securities laws place no time
constraints on when or how the Commission may make evidence available to
criminal authorities, leaving such matters to the discretion of the Commission and
DOJ. Id. The securities laws also provide that willful violations of their
requirements can subject a person to criminal penalties and imprisonment.
Securities Act, Section 24, 15 U.S.C. 77x; Exchange Act, Section 32(a), 15 U.S.C.
78ff. Instances of improper conduct often lead to both civil and criminal
proceedings because different remedies are available in those different
proceedings, and even where a defendant is subject to significant criminal
-2-

penalties, civil remedies are important to compensate victims of securities law
violations, and to prevent the defendants from engaging in future violations of the
securities laws or to bar them from the securities industry. See United States v.
Gartner, 93 F.3d 633, 635 (9th Cir. 1996); SEC v. Dresser Industries, Inc., 628
F.2d 1368, 1377-78 (D.C. Cir. 1980).
The district court’s holding that Commission staff misled defendants J.
Kenneth Stringer, J. Mark Samper, and William N. Martin by directing Stringer’s
counsel to contact criminal authorities when he asked if the SEC was working in
conjunction with the United States Attorney’s Office will significantly impair the
Commission’s ability to cooperate with criminal authorities and consequently will
impair the government’s ability to assure that, where appropriate, those who
violate the federal securities laws are subject to both civil and criminal
consequences. If the Commission cannot provide ongoing assistance and advice
to agencies with authority to investigate and bring criminal actions, those agencies
frequently may be unable to bring actions based on complex fraudulent securities
transactions.
This brief will address the adverse impact of the holding on the
Commission’s responsibility to enforce the securities laws. The United States’
brief ably explains the factual and legal errors in the holding; the purpose of this
-3-

brief is to illustrate why the public interest is best served by fostering the current
practice of cooperation between civil and criminal authorities conducting their
own investigations and why the district court opinion could significantly harm
efforts to enforce securities laws. It will also address why the duty that the
holding imposes upon the Commission to seek judicial consideration of possible
conflicts of interest between witnesses and their counsel is both unnecessary and
unworkable.
SUMMARY OF THE ARGUMENT
The cooperation between the SEC and DOJ in this case was fully in accord
with the Commission’s policies concerning parallel proceedings: Commission
staff advised each witness in the Commission’s civil investigation that evidence
obtained by the Commission could be used in criminal proceedings and that the
witnesses could decline to testify in accordance with their Fifth Amendment
rights. If the decision of the court below is affirmed, it will cause a significant
adverse impact on the Commission’s ability to cooperate with criminal authorities,
as directed by Congress and the President and as authorized by the courts. As the
Commission often does not have complete or current information about
investigations by criminal authorities, any new notices required under the court’s
decision will not necessarily provide witnesses any information or guidance that is
-4-

more meaningful than what they receive under current policies, and in many cases,
due to the Commission’s lack of information, could have the contrary effect of
providing them with misleading or incomplete information.
Also, the court’s conclusion that the Commission was under some
obligation to take additional steps beyond those it took in this case to prevent
conflicts of interest from arising between an individual and his counsel is
unsupported by any ethical obligation governing the conduct of Commission
attorneys and is unworkable.
ARGUMENT
I.

The Disclosure Requirements Imposed by the District Court Will
Create Significant Problems for the Government Without Providing
Further Protection for Witnesses or Persons Whose Conduct Is Being
Investigated.
A.

The Commission Routinely Advises Witnesses of Their
Constitutional Rights, Alerts Them to the Possibility of Criminal
Investigations, and Informs Them that the Commission May Give
Information They Provide to Criminal Authorities.

When the Commission’s staff learns of a possible securities law violation, it
conducts a preliminary investigation. In a preliminary investigation, the staff
lacks subpoena power and must instead rely upon witness cooperation to obtain
information. Where witnesses decline to cooperate, the Commission may enter a

-5-

formal order of investigation, granting staff authority to subpoena witnesses or
compel production of documents. See Exchange Act, Section 21(b), 15 U.S.C.
78u(b); 17 C.F.R. 202.5 & Part 203. If the investigation yields evidence that
indicates that any person has violated the federal securities laws, the Commission
can either bring a civil action in any United States district court to obtain the
appropriate relief, see Securities Act, Section 20(b), 15 U.S.C. 77t(b); Exchange
Act, Section 21(d), 15 U.S.C. 78u(d), or institute administrative proceedings
before the Commission seeking imposition of civil penalties, disgorgement, or
other remedies, see 17 C.F.R. 202.5(b); Exchange Act, Section 21B, 15 U.S.C.
78u-2.
The Commission’s policies and procedures for conducting investigations
require Commission staff to provide a Commission Supplemental Information
Form (Form 1662) to any person from whom the staff seeks documents or
testimony. ER 1134. The Form 1662 provides all persons who are requested to
provide information with notice of the basis of the Commission’s authority to
request the information and the principal and routine uses of the information. The
Form 1662 expressly advises witnesses of their right under the Fifth Amendment
to refuse to provide any information that may tend to incriminate them. It states:

-6-

Fifth Amendment and Voluntary Testimony. Information you give
may be used against you in any federal, state, local, or foreign
administrative, civil or criminal proceeding brought by the
Commission or any other agency.
You may refuse, in accordance with the rights guaranteed to you by
the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, to give
any information that may tend to incriminate you or subject you to
fine, penalty or forfeiture.
The Form 1662 also expressly advises the person that, as part of the Commission’s
routine use of any information provided, it is the Commission’s policy to share
information with other agencies, “particularly United States Attorneys and state
prosecutors.” It states:
The Commission often makes its files available to other governmental
agencies, particularly United States Attorneys and state prosecutors.
There is a likelihood that information supplied by you will be made
available to such agencies where appropriate. Whether or not the
Commission makes its files available to other governmental agencies
is, in general, a confidential matter between the Commission and such
other governmental agencies.
Set forth below is a list of the routine uses which may be made of the
information furnished.
1. To coordinate law enforcement activities between the SEC and
other federal, state, local or foreign law enforcement agencies. . . .
(Emphasis added).
Under the Commission’s policy, before taking testimony, staff allow a
witness time to review Form 1662, and at the beginning of the testimony staff ask

-7-

if the witness has any questions about the form. It is also the Commission’s policy
to specifically advise each witness, on the record, that their testimony and the facts
developed in the investigation might constitute violations of other state, federal,
civil, or criminal laws.
In the course of investigations, staff may provide information to criminal
authorities. The Securities Act and Exchange Act both expressly authorize the
Commission to transmit evidence of securities law violations to DOJ, for use by
DOJ in its discretion to determine whether and when to institute criminal
proceedings. See Securities Act, Section 20(b), 15 U.S.C. 77t(b); Exchange Act,
Section 21(d), 15 U.S.C. 78u(d). Indeed, courts, Congress, and the President have
approved close cooperation between the SEC and federal criminal law
enforcement authorities. See H.R. Rep. No. 640, 95th Cong., 1st Sess. at 10 (1977)
(“Traditionally, there has been a close working relationship between the Justice
Department and the SEC. The Committee [on Interstate and Foreign Commerce]
fully expects that this cooperation will continue . . . .”); Exec. Order No. 13271, 67
Fed. Reg. 46091 (Jul. 9, 2002) (Establishment of the Corporate Fraud Task Force)
(stating one of the Task Force’s functions is to “enhance cooperation among . . .
agencies, and entities of the Federal Government in the investigation and
prosecution of significant financial crimes”); Dresser, 628 F.2d at 1385-87
-8-

(noting that Congress had repeatedly endorsed the “close working relationship”
and “close cooperation” between the Commission and DOJ, and rejecting
“attempts to build a partial information barrier” between agencies engaging in
their own separate enforcement spheres in good faith) (citing United States v.
LaSalle National Bank, 437 U.S. 298, 312 (1978)). These authorities have
imposed no time limits on when the exchange of information with DOJ may occur,
leaving that determination to the agencies’ discretion.
The Commission’s rules implement these policies. Rule 203.2 of the
Commission’s Rules Relating to Investigations expressly authorizes SEC staff to
release non-public information in the Commission’s investigative files to federal,
state, or local authorities, and to discuss the contents of those files with them. 17
C.F.R. Part 203.2.2/ Regulation 19-1.4(a) of the Commission’s administrative
2/

Rule 203.2 states:
Information or documents obtained by the Commission in the course
of any investigation or examination, unless made a matter of public
record, shall be deemed non-public, but the Commission approves the
practice whereby officials of the Divisions of Enforcement,
Corporation Finance, Market Regulation and Investment
Management and the Office of International Affairs at the level of
Assistant Director or higher, and officials in Regional Offices at the
level of Assistant Regional Director or District Administrator or
higher, may engage in and may authorize members of the
Commission's staff to engage in discussions with persons identified in
(continued...)
-9-

regulations also provides:
Because SEC examinations and investigations frequently involve
violations of State law or other Federal statutes, the SEC recommends
and encourages full cooperation with State and other Federal law
enforcement authorities. Subject to such guidelines or limitations as
may be established by the SEC from time to time, SEC officials are
authorized in their discretion to render such assistance as may be
requested by these authorities.
SEC Administrative Regulation 19-1, Disclosure of Non-Public Information in
Connection with Examinations or Grants of Access, 2 SECR 19-1 (Aug. 31,
1999).
Before discussing its investigations or providing file access, the
Commission requires the requesting agency to provide a formal written access
request. In the access request, the requester must state that the access request is
being made in connection with an ongoing lawful investigation, and that it will
maintain safeguards to protect the confidentiality of non-public files which it
receives. Criminal authorities may request access and seek Commission
cooperation at any stage of a Commission investigation or enforcement
proceeding.
2/

(...continued)
Sec. 240.24c-1(b) of this chapter [other federal, state, or local
authorities] concerning information obtained in individual
investigations or examinations, including formal investigations
conducted pursuant to Commission order.
-10-

Once a written access request is provided, Commission staff are authorized
to cooperate fully with DOJ or other criminal authorities. This cooperation can
include sharing factual information learned in the SEC investigation, sharing
documents furnished to the SEC by third parties, providing access to testimony
taken by the SEC, discussing the SEC’s legal theories supporting its civil case
against a respondent, sharing SEC staff’s ideas concerning possible civil
violations of securities laws, and advising DOJ of the status of the SEC’s
investigation and the SEC’s future investigative plans. SEC staff can also offer
their detailed expertise to criminal authorities concerning the operation of the
securities laws, that criminal authorities may not otherwise possess.
B.

The Defendants Were Specifically Informed of their Fifth
Amendment Rights and of the Possibility of a Criminal
Proceeding.

The district court did not point to any actions by Commission staff which
were inconsistent with these policies and practices. Indeed, the evidence shows
that the Commission staff provided each defendant a copy of Form 1662 prior to
their investigative testimony, explaining their rights and the Commission’s
procedures concerning sharing information with criminal authorities, and
explaining that their testimony and the facts developed in the SEC’s investigation
might constitute violations of other state, federal, civil, or criminal laws. ER
-11-

1080-81, 1126-30, 1142-48, 1153, 1156, 1160-61, 1164. Each witness admitted
that he had read the Form 1662, and had no questions. Id. Lois Rosenbaum,
counsel for defendant Martin, also testified at the suppression hearing that she
took the Form 1662 warnings seriously. ER 829-30. In addition to the warnings
on Form 1662, before each witness’s testimony, SEC counsel taking the testimony
also expressly advised each witness on the record that the facts developed in the
SEC investigation could also constitute violations of criminal laws. ER 1080,
1156, 1160, 1164. When defendant Stringer’s attorney asked whether the SEC
was working in conjunction with the U.S. Attorney’s Office of any jurisdiction, he
was correctly advised that the SEC’s policy was not to comment on such issues,
but to direct the witness to inquire of the U.S. Attorney’s Office if he chose to. ER
1165.
C.

The Court’s Decision Will Have a Significant Adverse Impact on
the Commission’s Ability to Fulfill Its Obligations Under the
Securities Laws.

If the district court’s decision is not reversed, there will be a significant
adverse impact on the Commission’s ability to meet its obligations to provide
evidence of criminal violations to DOJ, but witnesses in Commission proceedings
will not receive any additional information that is more meaningful than what
Form 1662 already provides. In fact, in many cases the decision could have the
-12-

contrary effect of causing witnesses to receive misleading or incomplete
information.
The district court’s decision creates two distinct problems. First, it does not
give the Commission meaningful guidance as to when disclosure of criminal
investigations would be required. Therefore, to assure compliance, Commission
staff would have to notify any person it interviews of any related criminal
investigation if there is any possibility that they could be subjects or targets of
such an investigation. Further, it does not provide any direction about what the
Commission staff should do if criminal authorities have a basis for keeping their
investigation confidential.
The district court’s opinion is based on a finding that “the USAO was
actively involved in the SEC investigation,” and the district court found the
Commission staff’s response to a direct inquiry about possible cooperation with
criminal authorities misleading “in light of the close association between the
USAO and the SEC.” Opinion at 9-10. In any case where the Commission
provides documents to criminal authorities and has some ongoing communication
with the criminal authorities, the Commission could be subject to such a finding.
However, the Commission does not control the conduct of criminal investigations
by other agencies and is not in a position at any given time to know the status of a
-13-

criminal investigation or how the criminal authorities plan to conduct the
investigation. The Commission may not even know whether the criminal
authorities were interested in a Commission investigation for securities-related
reasons, or for some other issue such as tax violations that would be unrelated to
the Commission’s enforcement of the securities laws. Further, more than one
criminal authority may be investigating different aspects of the same general
subject matter at any given time – including multiple United States Attorneys’
Offices, as well as state and local prosecutors. Each of these different authorities
may have different areas of interest and different persons they are interested in.
Thus, any comment by Commission staff on parallel criminal proceedings would
run the risk of being misleading. Even stating that a certain office or agency is
conducting a criminal proceeding could be misleading because the office
mentioned may not have any real interest in a case while another office or agency
may be looking at the conduct without having notified the Commission of a new
(or renewed) interest. Nonetheless, the district court opinion requires disclosure
by the Commission of the existence of a criminal investigation to avoid misleading
a witness. Paradoxically, the opinion places the Commission in the position of
being required to provide information that could be misleading or inaccurate,
supposedly to avoid being subject to an accusation that its conduct is misleading.
-14-

This issue is magnified if the district court’s opinion is read to require not
only that the Commission advise witnesses about the existence of a criminal
investigation, but also advise them whether they are subjects or targets of a
criminal investigation. The terms “subject” and “target” are defined terms from
the United States Attorneys’ Manual relevant to criminal prosecutions, but the
SEC does not have subjects or targets of its civil securities investigations and does
not rely on any labels assigned by criminal investigators in its civil investigations.
Thus, the Commission would have even less information about who is a subject or
target than it has about the existence of an investigation. Also, the labels used by
criminal authorities may change frequently and, as the evidence indicates in this
case, the terms may be used informally and may have varying meanings. See
United States Brief at 10. The Commission’s policy of requiring witnesses to
communicate directly with criminal authorities and not obtain information from
the Commission avoids the confusion and ambiguity that would result if
Commission staff had to tell witnesses the status of other agencies’ investigations.
The second problem with the disclosure required by the district court
opinion is that the SEC would potentially have to disclose the existence of
criminal inquiries or investigations even in circumstances where criminal
authorities would not. This would severely threaten the criminal authorities’
-15-

investigatory privileges and the integrity of the investigatory process. In many
cases criminal authorities legitimately do not want their presence or interest
known to potential subjects or targets of an investigation as they develop their
case, such as when the criminal enterprise is ongoing, during an undercover
operation, or there is the potential for targets to “cover their tracks,” flee, or
destroy evidence. Even requiring the Commission to provide notice to witnesses
that it had received an access request could threaten criminal investigations where
the criminal authorities have legitimate reasons for not revealing their presence.
These problems likely would lead to less cooperation between the
Commission and criminal authorities. Criminal authorities would be unlikely to
seek cooperation from the Commission if they believed that the Commission
would have to reveal the cooperation, and thus the criminal authorities’ interest, in
the course of its own investigation. Indeed, even the practice of providing
criminal authorities access to Commission files would likely end, since criminal
authorities would be unlikely to request access if making Commission staff aware
of their possible criminal interest imposed a duty of disclosure on the
Commission.
While accepting inefficiencies or restrictions on investigations may be
necessary where the restrictions protect constitutional or other rights of witnesses,
-16-

the procedures imposed by the district court’s decision here serve no additional
purpose and provide no protections not already provided by current procedures.
See SEC v. Jerry T. O’Brien, 467 U.S. 735, 741 (1984) (reversing a Ninth Circuit
decision imposing a requirement on the Commission to provide notice to “targets”
of Commission investigations whenever the Commission issues subpoenas to
others, noting the Commission’s broad authority to determine how to conduct
investigations and finding no support for such a notice requirement in the
Constitution, the securities laws, or general standards governing enforcement of
subpoenas). Because the Commission is not entitled to know – and often does not
know – what criminal authorities plan to do and because criminal authorities often
change their direction, drop investigations entirely, or start investigations only
after the Commission has completed its investigation, requiring the Commission
staff to inform witnesses of criminal investigations will not give them more
meaningful information than Form 1662 provides.
II.

The District Court’s Expectation that the Commission Police Conflicts
of Interest Between Witnesses and Their Counsel Is Groundless and
Unworkable.
In addition to dismissing the indictment, the district court addressed claims

by one defendant, Samper, that the Commission and DOJ had improperly
exploited a conflict of interest between Samper and one of his attorneys. The
-17-

district court held that certain evidence should be suppressed and certain charges
should be stricken from the indictment. Opinion at 17. In the course of reaching
that conclusion, the district court expressed the opinion that “the government” has
an obligation to bring apparent conflicts of interest between a defendant and his
counsel to the “trial court’s attention” and, if necessary, seek disqualification of
counsel. Id. at 16 (quoting United States v. Tatum, 943 F.2d 370, 379-80 (4th Cir.
1991)).3/ The brief of the United States ably explains why the district court’s
decision to suppress evidence was erroneous, see U.S. Br. at 45-51, but the
Commission is also concerned about the impact of the dicta stating that the
government should have sought disqualification of counsel because that dicta
places a groundless and unworkable burden on the Commission by effectively
requiring it to initiate a court action seeking disqualification of counsel during an
investigation when the Commission has not yet determined whether to bring an
enforcement proceeding.
The district court provided little explanation of his finding that the
government should have sought disqualification of Samper’s counsel. In the
process of reaching that conclusion, the district court stated that “[t]he SEC was

3/

The district court did not specify whether DOJ or the Commission should
have moved for disqualification.
-18-

aware that a criminal prosecution would most likely occur, and was actively
involved in obtaining evidence for the purposes of the criminal prosecution.”
Opinion at 16. It further stated that “[t]he government was the only party involved
who knew the degree of the conflict of interest” between Samper and his counsel.
Id. The district court did not explain why knowledge of a possible criminal
prosecution would place the government, which would not be privy to any
discussions between Samper and his counsel, in the best position to evaluate
conflicts.4/ More specifically, the district court did not cite to Rules 1.7 and 1.8 of
Oregon’s Rules of Professional Conduct, which governed the analysis of a
potential conflicts of interest between Samper and his counsel,5/ or determine
whether Samper’s counsel had discussed potential conflicts or obtained a waiver
of any perceived conflict from Samper.
Contrary to the district court’s findings, the Commission took all
appropriate action and should not be required to take additional action in future

4/

Also, as discussed above and in the United States’ brief, the district court’s
view of what the Commission must disclose about a parallel criminal investigation
is erroneous.
5/

Because Samper was located in Oregon and was represented by an attorney
practicing in Oregon, the Commission presumes that the Oregon Rules of
Professional Conduct would apply to an analysis of Samper’s counsel’s
obligations with respect to any potential conflict of interest.
-19-

investigations. The Commission repeatedly alerted both Samper and his counsel
(Lois Rosenbaum of the Stoel Rives firm in Portland) of the potential for a
conflict, without result. As the district court noted, defendant Samper and his
counsel were warned of potential conflicts shortly after the inception of the
Commission’s investigation, prior to Samper’s first appearance before the
Commission staff. In March, 2000, Rosenbaum offered to represent FLIR,
Stringer and Samper in connection with the Commission investigation. Although
he had already retained his own counsel, Samper thereafter consented to joint
representation by Rosenbaum on May 15, 2000. On June 30, 2000, Samper was
subpoenaed to testify before the Commission staff. Immediately thereafter, a
member of the Commission staff wrote a letter to Rosenbaum which stated:
Although it is far too early in the investigation of the SEC staff to
identify people who may possess liability, we are troubled by the
scope of [Stoel Rives’] representation. We urge you to stringently
evaluate and assess your conflicts prior to continuing with this
method of representation. Further, we hope that the possibility of
conflicts has been sufficiently explained to all of your putative
clients.
Opinion at 13. Rosenbaum responded that she was aware of, and would comply
with, all ethical obligations. Id. As noted above, the Commission had no way to
verify that Rosenbaum discussed this situation with Samper.
After being advised by Rosenbaum to fully cooperate with the Commission,
-20-

Samper testified before the Commission on three occasions in October 2000 and
later disclosed all company documents in his possession. Id. He provided
additional testimony to the Commission in October and November 2001. Id. Prior
to testifying, Samper was provided with a copy of the Commission’s Form 1662.
In addition to alerting Samper and his counsel as to the Routine Uses of
Information collected by the Commission staff and the likelihood that such
information would be shared with law enforcement agencies, the form also
provided notice to Samper that the type of multiple representation provided by
Rosenbaum to himself, Stringer and FLIR presented a significant potential conflict
of interest. The form unequivocally emphasized that it was Samper’s
responsibility to discuss this matter with counsel and to make the final choice
concerning representation:
You may be represented by counsel who also represents other persons
involved in the Commission’s investigation. This multiple
representation, however, presents a potential conflict of interest if one
client’s interests are or may be adverse to another’s. If you are
represented by counsel who also represents other persons involved in
the investigation, the Commission will assume that you and counsel
have discussed and resolved all issues concerning possible conflicts
of interest. The choice of counsel, and the responsibility for that
choice, is yours.
See Form 1662. Accordingly, as a result of the actions of the Commission staff
and the operation of the Commission’s procedures, Samper received early warning
-21-

of the possibility of a conflict of interest.6/
The district court failed to cite a single case or rule which provides a basis
for its conclusion that the Commission had an obligation to take the additional
step of filing a court action seeking Rosenbaum’s disqualification. None of the
cases cited by the district court support imposition of such an obligation,7/ and we
are not aware of a single case in which a court has concluded that the government
is required to file a court action seeking disqualification under these
circumstances, or which has concluded that warnings such as those provided to

6/

The Commission’s issuance of warnings to both Samper and Rosenbaum,
and its reliance upon Rosenbaum’s representation that she was aware of, and
would comply with, all ethical obligations, is entirely consistent with Rules 1.7
and 1.8 of Oregon’s Rules of Professional Conduct. These rules impose a duty
upon the attorney, rather than third parties like the Commission and its counsel, to
assess conflicts of interest.
7/

SEC v. Higashi, 359 F.2d 550, 553 (9th Cir. 1966) and Kentucky West
Virginia Gas Co. v. Pennsylvania P.U.C., 837 F.2d 60, 618 (3rd Cir. 1988), cited
by the district court, support the general proposition that multiple representation is
permissible. United States v. Tatum, 943 F.2d 370 (4th Cir. 1991), cited by the
district court, is also inapposite. In Tatum, the Fourth Circuit concluded that an
attorney’s representation of both a client and his own law partner in a criminal trial
for bankruptcy fraud represented a clear conflict of interest which adversely
affected his representation of the client, and remanded the case for a new trial.
Finally, as the United States noted in its brief at 51, n.3, United States v. Irwin,
612 F.2d 1182, 1185 (9th Cir. 1980), cited by the district court, is a Sixth
Amendment case involving interference after a defendant was criminally charged,
and is not relevant to this case, which involves alleged Commission misconduct
during its civil investigation when Sixth Amendment rights do not attach.
-22-

Samper’s counsel and to Samper himself by the Commission staff were inadequate
in any way.
In addition, any decision that would require the Commission to take
additional steps beyond those it took in this case to prevent potential conflicts of
interest from arising between an individual and his counsel would be unworkable.
Requiring the Commission to unilaterally approach “the court” to seek the
dismissal of counsel when a conflict becomes apparent during a Commission
investigation, as the district court concludes should have been done in this case,
would not be possible since there is no court action pending during the
investigative phase, and hence no court with jurisdiction over the matter.8/
While Rule 8.3(a) of the Model Rules of Professional Conduct contemplates
that a lawyer who “knows that another lawyer has committed a violation of the
Rules of Professional Conduct” will notify the appropriate professional
association in certain situations, that obligation is very different from what the
district court contemplated.9/ First, that obligation would be on individual lawyers,

8/

The district court does not address which court would have jurisdiction to
hear such a claim.

9/

Other ethical codes, including the Standards of Ethical Conduct for
Employees of the Executive Branch (codified in 5 C.F.R. 2635) and the
Commission’s own Canon of Ethics (codified in 5 C.F.R. 200.50 et seq.) do not
(continued...)
-23-

not on the Commission itself. Second, the district court did not make a finding
that any Commission lawyer knew of a violation. Indeed, the court did not even
refer to the relevant Rules of Professional Conduct to explain the specific nature
of the conduct and why it could not be consented to, especially since Samper had
independent counsel not subject to the conflict who represented him before
Rosenbaum did. Third, requiring the Commission to raise the issue in court gives
rise to many more problems than a report to an entity like a bar association which,
unlike the Commission, would be in a position to verify that opposing counsel has
fully discussed the potential conflict with the client and has, when appropriate,
obtained the client’s informed consent to continue representation notwithstanding
the existence of a conflict. Indeed, were the Commission to seek disqualification
of counsel without being privy to the discussions between counsel and client
mandated by codes governing attorney conduct, such action would doubtless give
rise to claims that the Commission is actually seeking to interfere with, rather than
preserve, the client-counsel relationship which the client voluntarily chose to enter

9/

(...continued)
impose any additional obligation. Also, California’s Rules of Professional
Conduct, unlike the Model Rules, do not have a requirement to report a violation
to an appropriate professional association.
-24-

into,10/ triggering an entirely new, ancillary and completely unnecessary area of
motions practice. Litigants doubtless would challenge a Commission motion
seeking disqualification or dismissal of counsel on conflicts grounds as an attempt
to impose an additional burden on individuals, or as a punitive attempt to replace
an attorney providing able representation to an individual being investigated by
the Commission.
The detriment to the Commission’s investigative efforts, and the additional
burden imposed upon the district courts and the parties by the requirement that the
Commission move for disqualification when it has some reason to believe an
unwaivable conflict exists, is manifest and demonstrates the impracticability of
such a requirement.

10/

Form 1662 states unequivocally that it is the responsibility of an individual
under investigation by the staff to choose counsel, and to discuss the possibility of
conflicts with counsel. Professional Codes of Conduct impose a similar obligation
on attorneys.
-25-

CONCLUSION
The Commission respectfully submits that this Court should reverse the
decision of the district court.
DATED this 13th day of September 2006.
Respectfully submitted,

BRIAN G. CARTWRIGHT
General Counsel

_________________________
RICHARD M. HUMES
Associate General Counsel
MELINDA HARDY
Assistant General Counsel
JOHN SHOLAR
Special Trial Counsel
TIMOTHY N. McGAREY
Special Trial Counsel
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION
100 F STREET, N.E.
WASHINGTON, DC 20549-9612
TEL: (202) 551-5140

-26-

STATEMENT OF RELATED CASES
Pursuant to Ninth Circuit Rule 28-2.6, the Commission represents that there
are no related cases.

-27-

BRIEF FORMAT CERTIFICATION
Ninth Circuit Rule 32(e)(4)
Pursuant to Ninth Circuit Rule 32(e)(4), I certify that the Commission’s
brief is:
Proportionally spaced, has a typeface of 14 points or more and contains
5893 words, inclusive of certifications.
DATED this 13th day of September 2006.

_________________________
RICHARD M. HUMES
Associate General Counsel

-28-

