Recommendations of the Investor Advisory Committee
Regarding SEC Rulemaking to Explore Universal Proxy Ballots
(Adopted July 25, 2013)
Preliminary Observations:

1
2

•

Currently, retail investors and institutional investors other than the largest in the U.S. do
not have the practical ability to vote their shares at shareholder meetings in the same
manner that is available to shareholders who attend shareholder meetings in person.

•

Shareholders in attendance at meetings, particularly in proxy contests, have the ability to
receive a legal ballot that allows them to pick and choose among all of the candidates
who are duly nominated. Shareholders who are not in attendance do not have that ability
and typically can only choose from among nominees that appear on management’s or a
dissident’s ballot – but not both.

•

Congress has granted the Commission authority over the corporate proxy process as a
means of ensuring that it functions, “as nearly as possible, as a replacement for an actual
in-person meeting of shareholders.” 1 The complexity and expense of exercising full
voting rights for the election of directors while not attending a shareholders meeting in
person are substantial, and typically only large institutional holders ever avail themselves
of these procedures. 2

•

The current “bona fide nominee” rule codified in Rule 14a-4, is a significant inhibiting
factor to the adoption of so-called universal proxy ballots (“Universal Ballots”) and
relaxation of this rule should be explored. Universal Ballots are shareholder voting cards
on which shareholders can choose to vote for one or more director candidates regardless
of who nominated any individual candidate, so long as the candidates are duly nominated
under state law and the particular company’s charter and bylaws.

See http://www.sec.gov/news/press/2009/2009-116.htm
See http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/27419/000095012309009445/y01588ydfan14a.htm

IAC Recommendations:
Universal Ballot Recommendation
The Commission should explore relaxing the “bona fide nominee” rule embodied
in Rule 14a-4(d)(1) promulgated in 1966 under Section 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 to provide proxy contestants with the option (but not the obligation) to use Universal
Ballots in connection with short slate director nominations (in other words, where the candidates
nominated by shareholders would, if elected, constitute a minority of the board of directors). In
connection with that process, specific inquiry should be made as to whether all or only a portion
of duly nominated candidates must or may appear on Universal Ballots.
Supporting Rationale:
Rule 14a-4(d)(1) promulgated in 1966 under Section 14 of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 provides that no proxy shall confer authority upon the solicitor to vote for
any person who is not a bona fide nominee. 3 This is the so-called “bona fide nominee rule.”
Under Rule 14a-4(d) a bona fide nominee is one who consents to being named in a particular
proxy statement and agrees to serve if elected. It is important to note that the consent required is
the consent to be named in a particular proxy statement, and not a general consent to be
nominated for election or to serve as a director. Directors nominated by an incumbent board
have only very rarely consented to being named as nominees in a proxy statement issued by a
shareholder in opposition to management.
The practical effect of the bona fide nominee rule, in conjunction with typical
“last in time” state corporate law provisions, 4 is that shareholders have no practical ability to
“split their tickets” and vote for a combination of shareholder nominees and management
nominees. In many cases shareholders who desire to vote for a full slate of directors attempted
to split their tickets by seeking to vote for both shareholder and management nominees on a
single card, leading to the invalidation of their votes, disenfranchising shareholders and
disadvantaging nominating shareholders seeking minority representation on the board of
directors. 5
In final rules promulgated in 1992, 6 the Commission modified the bona fide
nominee rule by “choosing a partial solution to the problem, opting not for the most simple
approach that would permit inclusion of some management nominees on the dissident’s proxy.” 7
In adopting the 14a-4 amendments, the Commission noted “the difficulty experienced by
shareholders in gaining a voice in determining the composition of the board of directors,” but
3

17 CFR 240.14a-4(d).
State law almost universally provides that the latest dated proxy revokes any previous proxy, thus forcing
shareholders to vote on a single card.
5
Ronald J. Gilson, Lilli A. Gordon and John Pound, “How the Rules Discourage Constructive Engagement:
Regulatory Barriers to Electing a Minority of Directors,” 17 J. CORP. L. 29 (1992).
6
Regulation of Communications Among Shareholders, Exchange Act Release No. 31,326, Investment Company
Act Release No. 19,031 (October 16, 1992) (hereinafter the “Short Slate Release”).
7
Remarks of SEC Commissioner Mary L. Schapiro Before the National Investor Relations Institutes Fall
Conference, November 6, 1992 (emphasis added).
4

2

stated the following with regard to providing shareholder access to the company’s proxy
materials:
Proposals to require the company to include shareholder nominees
in the company’s proxy statement would represent a substantial
change in the Commission’s proxy rules. This would essentially
mandate a universal ballot including both management nominees
and independent candidates for board seats. 8
Rather than mandating a Universal Ballot the Commission revised the bona fide
nominee rule so that it allows a shareholder who nominates a short slate of directors (i.e., a
number of directors which, if elected, would constitute a minority of the board) to obtain
authority to vote for some of management’s nominees as well (the “short slate rule”). Under the
modified rule, and upon compliance with its conditions, 9 the solicited shareholder is able to
support the nominating shareholder’s minority short slate while preserving the ability to vote for
a full slate of directors by authorizing the nominating shareholder to vote for management
nominees as well.
Soliciting parties can identify the management nominees they will not vote for
and can indicate that they will vote for the rest of management’s slate, but the soliciting party
cannot include the management nominees it will vote for by name in its proxy statement or form
of proxy. For example, “if a shareholder wishes to nominate only two candidates to a seven
person board, the short slate rule permits the shareholder to choose five of management’s
nominees to fill out his or her ballot, provided that the shareholder does not name those
management nominees on his or her proxy card, but instead only those management candidates
that the shareholder is opposing.” 10 The Commission addressed certain of the perceived defects
in the bona fide nominee rule without formally amending it – by allowing a nominating
shareholder to identify the management nominees it would not vote for rather than permitting it
to take the more direct approach of identifying those management nominees for whom it would
vote.
By enabling Universal Ballots, the Commission can more directly improve this
basic element of corporate democracy. Recent experience in Canada (including large-cap issuers
with substantial shareholders in the U.S.) suggests that technical implementation for a Universal
Ballot regime is cost effective.
The IAC encourages the Commission to further inform itself and market
participants, including by way of one or more roundtable discussions, regarding the concept of
8

The Short Slate Release, supra note 5 at 57 Fed. Reg. 48,276 at 48,288 (Oct. 22, 1992).
Rule 14a-4(d) requires that four conditions be met to allow the incorporation of management’s nominees into the
nominating shareholder’s card: (1) the nominating shareholder must seek authority to vote in the aggregate for all of
the board seats then up for election; (2) the nominating shareholder must disclose its intention to vote for all of
management’s nominees except for those specified; (3) the solicited shareholder must have an opportunity to
withhold authority with respect to any other management nominee by writing the name of such nominee on the
form; and (4) both the form and the statement must disclose that there is no assurance that management’s
nominees, if elected, will serve with any of the nominating shareholder’s nominees.
10
SEC Staff Report: Review of the Process Regarding the Nomination and Election of Directors, Division of
Corporate Finance, July 15, 2003.
9

3

Universal Ballots and the challenges and opportunities available for proxy modernization in this
area.
Deliberations:
In connection with deliberations on the Universal Ballot Recommendation, the
committee members considered whether the current Rule 14a-4 is operating satisfactorily or, if
Universal Ballots would offer improvement, whether Universal Ballots should be made
mandatory in all circumstances (so-called “mandatory use”) or whether contestants should be
enabled at their own choosing to include some or all of a competing nominee slate (so-called
“optional use”).
Proponents of mandatory use point out the virtue of allowing all shareholders to
have a low-cost, equal opportunity to vote in a manner that is available to all in-person attendees
at shareholder meetings. Moreover, these commentators point out that the inability to choose
from among the individuals nominated from all parties limits shareholder choice and diminishes
director accountability by precluding shareholders from choosing the best candidates amongst all
of those who are nominated. In their view, these limitations weaken basic notions of corporate
democracy.
Proponents of optional use point out that mandatory use could be viewed as a new
form of shareholder proxy access, which many have objected to for reasons that are well
documented, and adoption of mandatory use could prove for the same reasons to be
unnecessarily controversial. These proponents also point out the virtue of a less proscriptive
regime that allowed contestants to pick and choose between individual nominees (if any) on their
proxy cards, particularly when contestants found all or certain individuals on a competing slate
to be particularly objectionable.
Separately, in the course of deliberations, questions from previous exploration of
Universal Ballots were raised including (1) the potential for voter confusion (i.e., voter inability
to easily determine the recommended candidates nominated by a contestant) and (2) the risk of
over-voting (i.e., the selection of a greater number of nominees than open seats available for
election).
In the case of potential voter confusion, a consensus was reached that this risk
could be mitigated with conspicuous disclosure on proxy cards. Further, reference was made to
the fact that in contested elections professional proxy solicitors and other soliciting persons are
typically made available to facilitate the voting process for both institutional and retail holders,
thereby mitigating potential for voter confusion.
In the case of over-voting, the point was made that under state laws, which
currently govern the terms of legal ballots, selection of a greater number of nominees than open
seats could render a proxy card invalid and thereby disenfranchises shareholders. In addition to
noting that the common use of proxy solicitors and other soliciting persons mitigates this risk,
reference was made to the fact that increasingly both institutional and retail shareholders vote by
way of electronic means that could be configured to mitigate this risk by mechanically requiring
voters to fix problems before ballots are submitted.
#

#

#
4

#

