Samsung Electronics announced today that it estimates a negative impact of approximately mid-3 trillion won in operating profit from the fourth quarter of 2016 through the first quarter of 2017, due to the discontinuation of Galaxy Note7 sales. The company already allocated the expected direct cost from the discontinuation of Galaxy Note7 sales in its third quarter earnings guidance revision announced on Oct. 11, but expects the drop in revenue from the discontinued sales to continue to have a negative impact on operating profit for the next two quarters. The negative impact is estimated in the mid-2 trillion won range for the fourth quarter of 2016 and at approximately 1 trillion won for the first quarter of 2017. The company is releasing these estimates to inform the market on the impact of the Galaxy Note7 discontinuation. Moving forward, Samsung Electronics plans to normalize its mobile business by expanding sales of flagship models such as the Galaxy S7 and Galaxy S7 edge. Additionally, the company will focus on enhancing product safety for consumers by making significant changes in its quality assurance processes.

Samsung Electronics, a world leader in advanced semiconductor technology, today announced that it has begun mass production of the Exynos 7 Dual 7270. It is the first mobile application processor (AP) in the industry designed specifically for wearable devices with 14-nanometer (nm) FinFET process technology. It is also the first in its class to feature full connectivity and LTE modem integration. Since 2015, Samsung has been leading the industry in expanding the adoption of 14nm technology for a wide variety of products from premium smartphones to entry-level mobile devices. With the Exynos 7270, the company also introduces the benefits of this cutting-edge technology to wearables. “The Exynos 7270 presents a new paradigm for system-on-chips (SoC) dedicated to wearables,” said Ben K. Hur, Vice President of System LSI Marketing at Samsung Electronics. “Designed on our state-of-the-art process technology, this AP offers great power savings, 4G LTE modem and full connectivity solution integration, as well as innovative packaging technology optimized for wearable devices. It is a ground-breaking solution that will greatly accelerate wider adoption of wearable devices by overcoming limitations in current solutions such as energy usage and design flexibility.” Powered by two Cortex®-A53 cores, the Exynos 7270 makes full use of the 14nm process, delivering 20 percent improvement in power efficiency when compared to its predecessor built on 28nm, and thus notably extending the battery life. By integrating Cat.4 LTE 2CA modem, the new AP allows wearables to connect to a cellular service as a stand-alone device. Tethering and data transfer between devices is also possible with its embedded WiFi and Bluetooth connectivity. In addition, integrated connectivity capabilities support FM (frequency modulation) radio, and location-based services with GNSS (global navigation satellite system) solutions. As well as the implementation of the advanced 14nm FinFET process, Samsung’s innovative packaging technology, SiP(system-in-package)-ePoP(embedded package-on-package), enables the Exynos 7270 to feature outstanding performance and energy-efficiency within a compact solution optimized for wearable devices. The technology combines the AP, DRAM and NAND flash memory chips as well as the PMIC (power management IC) together into a single package. The solution can offer more features than its predecessor in the same 100-square-millimeter (mm2) area while reducing the height by approximately 30 percent. This gives more room for device manufacturers to design high performance, ultra-slim wearable devices. To expedite the development process, a reference platform comprised of the Exynos 7270, NFC (near field communication) and various sensors is currently available for device manufacturers and customers. 
