1.  Exchange Linking Software Development - Functional development was 
completed on schedule and we are currently performing testing of the Beta 
release.  Initial testing has gone very well.  
     A final release is scheduled for January 15th.  I will be working with 
Victoria Storey from the Operations group in turning over external testing of 
the system.  A deployment plan has been submitted to
     Operations to assist them with the rollout.

2.  Exchange Linking GUI - Development is complete and testing is being 
conducted.

3.  Product Mapping -  Product Control Group continues their effort of 
coordinating with TrueQuote the products covered under Schedule A of the 
contract.  Points of contact have been arranged 
      between Enron (Rob Cass) and TrueQuote (Richard Toubia) to continue the 
coordination effort required to support ongoing product mapping.

4.  Hardware - All network and server hardware has been received and 
installed.  

5.  Leased Lines - Anchi Z. has been coordinating with each exchange's 
network POC and assisting in obtaining T-1 lines to support this project.  In 
the absence of T-1 lines, both TrueQuote and Houston
     Street will be using VPN connectivity to conduct testing.  We should be 
up and running with TrueQuote by 28 December so that testing can begin.  
Houston Street does not anticipate being ready to 
     test anything until the end of February. 

6.  Bridging - Downstream system bridging modifications have been made to 
accommodate the addition of an external exchange id and an external exchange 
deal number.

7.  TrueQuote has stated that they will not make the contract date with 
regard to some of the functionality of their system.  They hope to be able to 
fully act as a client exchange but are not prepared to
      take on the role of an external exchange (i.e. handle transaction 
attempts from Enron.)

8.  Houston Street is back in the picture.  Their stated contract date is 
December 4th + 120 calendar days.  This gives them some breathing room.  They 
have canned Sapient, built their own internal 
      IT team, purchased messaging software from Web Methods and changed 
hosting providers.  They will no longer use Genuity out of Boston but Data 
Return out of Dallas for their hosting needs.
