I really appreciate your efforts in adding another hour to our meeting this
afternoon and in making Jay available for the discussion.  The following is
a list of technical questions that we would like to discuss in this
afternoon's meeting:

1) This one is probably going to be discussed in the first two hours - We
will need to have the data to populate our tables with in order to map PID,
CPID, RID, PSETID, CATGID, CTYID, CMDTYID.  The non-technical people know
all of the information about the products, deal types, etc.  However, do
they know that for example, PID "123" maps back to Product "ABC"?  I would
think the technical people are the ones that know how this codes map back to
specific product information on your system.

2) Could you provide us a little background on why Credit term changed from
"Required" to "Implied" during the last version of the DTD that we received
from you?

3) We sent this question a few days ago, but have not received a response:
There are several different parameter names specified for the XML that is
passed between systems.
The following is a list of those specified in the External Interface
Document:

Post Prices:  prices (Page 12, Notes, Decision 1, Parameters)
Request Prices:  prices (Page 14, Notes, Decision 1, Parameters)
Attempt Transaction: txn (Page 16, Notes, Decision 1, Parameters)
Post Product Set Data: xml (Page 26, Notes, Decision 1, Parameters)
Post Credit Matrix: xml (Page 28, Notes, Decision 1, Parameters)

Should all of the parameter names be "xml" or should the parameter names for
Post Product Set Data and Post Credit Matrix be changed to reflect the
naming convention of the other use cases?

Using "xml" as the parameter name for all use cases will reduce the
redundancy of the code we'll need to write to route the data to our internal
interfaces.

4) We still have some concerns over having to maintain Enron's calendar on
our system since term is sent as part of the key.  We would like to discuss
alternatives for dealing with date interpretation.

5) We had asked a question earlier regarding business responses being sent
back within the same HTTP session.   We are going to assume that
confirmation comes back in the HTTP response since there has been no
interface defined for business responses.  We would like to confirm this
assumption in this meeting.

6) Is there going to be some capability of cancelling a transaction attempt
if for some reason we do not receive a response back from Enron on a
transaction attempt and a subsequent transaction search?

7) Would Enron consider posting all of their requests to a .asp file as
opposed to a file with no extension (ext_nrt.asp instead of ext_nrt)?  It is
a generally accepted practice to include file extensions when transporting
files.

Thanks again for everything David.  We will look forward to talking to you
later today!
