The following questions were discussed in the telephone conference call with
Enron on September 26th.  We have inserted Enron's answers in Blue and have
highlighted follow-ups and offline discussions in Red.


Questions for Enron to answer regarding True Quote's interface:

High Priority Questions (need to be addressed):
(From Exhibit A) Will the product ID that Enron is transmitting specifically
identify a product offering including commodity, deal type, region /
location, and tradable term (fully qualified begin and end dates)?

Product ID is a fully transactable item - Product, Location, Dates
Product ID is a fully qualified instrument - excluding price, volume and
counterparty
Product ID can be for next day and balance of month.  However, on next to
last day of month, the Product ID will offer either next day or BOM, not
both (there is no reason for redundancy)
Product ID that is for anything, except for the rolling Tokenized
products/dates (example: For a spot month, the Product ID will expire on the
first day of that spot month)
Currency and Unit of measure is implied as part of Product ID, but it is not
an attribute


(From Exhibit B) Can we confirm a transaction attempt against Enron for an
Enron product id is a "Fill or Kill" transaction, meaning, a transaction
attempt submitted to Enron would not stay in their system if it was not
immediately filled.  If the deal is not confirmed by Enron, the order will
be immediately removed from Enron's system and could not be filled later if
market conditions made the order viable.

A transaction attempt by TrueQuote will be "Fill or Kill" (It will not in
stay in EOL's system)

If the deal is not confirmed by Enron due to non-availability of volume,
these volumes need to be expired in the True Quote system

If a transaction attempt fails for ANY reason, Enron will immediately
rebroadcast that Product to the True Quote system

Does True Quote need to design functionality for partial fill of a deal
transaction for an outside entity?

Enron will do partial fills.  The True Quote system needs to design
functionality to accept partial fills from an outside entity.

What is the time threshold for waiting on an Enron response to a transaction
attempt?

Enron will accept whatever True Quote determines is an acceptable threshold
for waiting.

What is the estimated delivery date for Enron's DTDs?

The EnronOnline Exchanges External Interface Document was received on
Monday, October 2, 2000.

Exhibit A (Enron Price Interface-what Enron sends to TQ):

Concerning the Enron price interface, Enron has stated that EOL currently
handles prices/volume updates at the rate of 100 updates per second, growing
potentially to 500 per second (across all EOL product offerings).  Given
this level of update activity, how will the transmission of these updates be
accomplished?  Below are some questions which should clarify these concerns:

What is the expected rate of updates for the sub-set of EOL products that
will be transmitted to the True Quote platform?  Is it expected that these
products will also endure update activity at the rate of 100-500 updates per
second?

Although it was not communicated how often an XML document will be sent, it
was clarified that the XML documents will be sent at certain time
intervals.Each update will contain all information since last time polled
(includes all changes (only changes) since last transmission)
Need to clarify if True Quote will be polling EOL for Updates, or if EOL
will send them automatically at certain time intervals.

Will there be one XML document interface transmission for each Enron product
update, or will one XML document interface contain updates for multiple
Enron products?  The implications of this are as follows:  Will True Quote
need to handle 100-500 XML documents per second, or will True Quote receive
one XML document at a determined interval that has updates for all Enron
products?  If the XML document contains updates for all Enron products, how
often will Enron send us the document?   If it's one XML document per Enron
product, will True Quote be expected to handle 100-500 XML document
submissions per second?

The XML document will contain updates for multiple Product IDs.  If only one
Product ID has changed in EOL since the last transmission, then only one
Product ID will be sent to True Quote in the updates.

Can we confirm that Enron will only submit one price/volume offering per
Enron product id; meaning, Enron will never have multiple price and quantity
offerings for the same Enron product ID on the True Quote platform.

Enron will never send Market Depth for any Product ID.  What you see on EOL
is exactly what is transmitted to True Quote (one offering per Enron Product
ID).  However, each Product ID update will contain both the Bid and the
Offer.

The interface currently does not have a field to define the duration of the
order.  Given this, can we assume that when the price interface submits a
product price/volume update to the True Quote platform, the order will be
loaded with a duration of "Good Until Canceled".  True Quote will mark the
order as 'GTC' until Enron submits a new XML document for that Enron product
that changes the status to "Suspended".  In this case True Quote would
cancel the order on the True Quote system.

All orders will remain on the True Quote system until the EOL traders pull
the deals.  At this time, EOL would send "Suspended Status" for the Product
ID.

How are terms related to Enron Product IDs?  Example:  For a given Enron
commodity, deal type, and location that is traded in October, would a new
product id be created for that same product offering when the month rolls to
November?
 Yes

If product ids do not include a direct relationship to a specific tradable
term, when a Price Interface XML document is submitted to the True Quote
platform, how will True Quote know which trade term the product id is
associated with?
Product IDs do have a direct relationship to a specific tradable term

We are currently assuming that an Enron product id specifically identifies a
product offering including commodity, deal type, region/location, and
tradable term.
This assumption is correct

Can we confirm that all Enron orders transmitted to the True Quote platform
will be cancelled at the end of the day and that all products will be
re-loaded into the True Quote system the following morning?  If not,  will
the assumed 'Good Until Canceled' duration for each product id remain active
until the status has been changed to "Suspended"?

All EOL orders should be removed by the traders at the end of the day.  For
those that are not removed, True Quote should run a nightly batch job that
removes all EOL orders left in the system.  Each morning, True Quote will
authenticate with EOL, and at this time, all orders on EOL will be
transmitted to True Quote.

Exhibit B (Transaction Interface with Enron):

For each field (across all interfaces), we will need clearly defined data
types (precision, range of length, space/bytes it takes).

This information still needs to be provided.

Can we assume the Bid/Ask flag is an integer? Perhaps a bit?  If it's a
character, what is the character indicator?  B/A?

This information still needs to be provided.

Can we confirm the data type for volume is integer?

This information still needs to be provided.

Across all interfaces, there is not a defined unit of measure for price and
volume by Enron product id.   Should part of the XML DTD specify the unit of
measure for both price and volume, or are we to assume that Enron product
ids for Power are in US dollars and megawatt/hr, and Enron product ids for
natural gas are US dollars and MMBTU?

Currency and Unit of measure is implied as part of Product ID, but it is not
an attribute

Price - how many decimal places? (precision of the number)

This information still needs to be provided.

Volume and Price - Does Enron have an min / max / default increment value
established for price and volume increment ranges by Enron product id?  (For
example, within True Quote the default volume increment for natural gas is
5000, and the price increment is $0.0025.  Both the price and volume
increments, min/max ranges can vary by region or location).

On EOL, the traders determine the minimal tradable increments and the
minimal tradable amounts (this minimums could be as low as 1).

To be worked Offline:
How to handle increments <> 5000 increment on the Enron side (will we only
display the 5000 increment below the volume submitted by Enron, if trader
has a minimum greater than entities are willing to participate, how do we
display this and how does the minimum increment come across in the order)


Can we confirm a transaction attempt against Enron for an Enron product id
is a "Fill or Kill" transaction, meaning, a transaction attempt submitted to
Enron would not stay in their system if it was not immediately filled.  If
the deal is not confirmed by Enron, the order will be immediately removed
from Enron's system and could not be filled later if market conditions made
the order viable.  If the deal is not confirmed by Enron due to
non-availability of volume, these volumes need to be expired in the True
Quote system.

Already answered above.

Will Enron allow partial fill of transactions?   For example, if the Enron
price interface submits an offer with 20,000 mmbtu available, can True Quote
submit a transaction bid attempt to take only 10,000 mmbtu of the Enron
offer?   If not, is it a valid assumption that we can only submit a
transaction attempt to lift the entire Enron offer of 20,000 mmbtu?

Enron will allow partial fills.

Exhibit C (True Quote Price Interface-what TQ sends to Enron):
Does Enron expect True Quote to submit a single price point offering for an
Enron product id that is the aggregate total volume of all orders available
for that product id on the True Quote platform at the best available price?
This would allow Enron to submit a transaction attempt against the True
Quote platform, submitting a volume request that would potentially sweep
multiple counter parties creating deals with all entities necessary to
satisfy transaction attempt.
Alternative 2:  Does Enron expect True Quote to submit only the best
individual order (the best price and volume for an Enron product id from
only one counterparty) identified by its True Quote order id (True Quote
would not transmit the counter party id; however, before sending the XML
interface to Enron, the counterparty would have to pass the credit rules
maintained in the counterparty credit matrix on the True Quote platform).
Alternative 3:  Would Enron expect True Quote to submit multiple price
offerings per Enron product id (a market depth of various price and volume
offerings).  In this scenario, the volume associated with each price point
should be an aggregate of multiple True Quote orders (as shown in the True
Quote market screen).  The XML interface could potentially transmit
individual True Quote orders and their associated volumes (not an aggregate
volume of multiple orders); however, giving Enron the ability to 'pick and
choose' individual orders could potentially violate True Quote customer
service agreements that require deals to be executed in the chronological
sequence that the order request was received by the True Quote platform.

Enron wants to see the granularity of each True Quote Product ID order.
Enron expects True Quote to submit multiple price offerings per Enron
Product ID.  (Example:  If  True Quote has an order in the system for
100,000 MMbtu's at $3.00, which is comprised of 10 individual orders of
10,000, Enron wants True Quote to send all of the individual orders).

To be worked Offline:
Fair and equitable treatment with prices sent to Enron (proper processing of
orders without bias)
Need to discuss in more detail how to handle EOL price interface
transactions and Enron Trader transactions
Need to clarify with Enron whether they want to receive the best price in
the market for a given Product ID, or if they want to see all of a given
Product ID's market depth.

Our concern is that if True Quote transmits individual True Quote orders and
their associated volumes (not an aggregate volume of multiple orders),
giving Enron the ability to 'pick and choose' individual orders, this could
potentially violate True Quote customer service agreements that require
deals to be executed in the chronological sequence that the order request
was received by the True Quote platform.


Exhibit D (Sponsor Transaction Interface):
Are we correct in assuming that transactions posted by Enron traders against
True Quote deals will be executed on the True Quote system?  Will the
duration of the order attempts being sent to True Quote be "Fill or Kill" or
some other duration?

To be worked Offline:
The traders will want to transact against True Quote directly without
adjusting the market position through EOL, but how this is accomplished will
be to be discussed.

Exhibit E (Counterparty Interface):
In general, we need more details about what Enron will be sending as part of
their daily counterparty credit / term interface, as well as the intra-day
counterparty credit/term interface:
Currently, exhibit E does not specific any fields or data types within an
XML DTD.
What are the "terms" under which participants can trade with Enron?  For
example, will the level of restriction include volumetric limits, financial
limits, tradable date range limits (number days or months into the future)
by Enron product id (assuming a product id specifically defines a commodity,
deal-type, region/location, and tradable term).  Will Enron send us a 'yes /
no' flag to turn off/on a counterparty's ability to trade with Enron by the
Enron product id?

To be worked Offline:
Credit terms and counterparty interface details were not addressed in the
teleconference.  The details of granularity will need to addressed to better
understand the responsibilities that True Quote will have in handling
Enron's credit structure.


Questions for True Quote to Answer:

Exhibit D:  Does the Sponsor Transaction interface (Enron proposing
transactions on the True Quote platform) still invoke the Enron Transaction
Interface?  There was some discussion that if internal Enron traders
proposed transactions against the True Quote platform, the point of
transaction would be the True Quote platform, and True Quote would not have
to invoke the transaction on the EOL platform.  True Quote would simply
confirm whether the Enron transaction attempt succeeded or failed.  If it
succeeded, True Quote would send a confirmation XML interface to confirm the
deal had been executed and transmit the True Quote Deal ID to Enron.
What is the time threshold for waiting on Enron's response to a transaction
attempt?  For example, after 'n' seconds the True Quote platform should
alert a system operator that an Enron transaction attempt has failed to
return either a confirmation or failure.

Please respond to the questions above.
