If you all could review our feedback and let us know your thoughts, that
would be great. Also, Dave, please let me know if you want to move forward
with the counsel discussion on Monday.

Informally and respectfully, I would like to comment on Enron's sentiment
that we have had six weeks to think about some of these things and as a
result, the ambiguity should already be gone. I appreciate this
point-of-view, but also want to share my perspective with you all:
     This is a nonstandard deal in terms of the traditional 'buyer seeks
     seller with needed asset'.  This traditional approach likely has the
     buyer in the market for that asset already.  All of the analysis to
     determine the value of that asset has most likely been completed.  As
     a result, the buyer probably has a strong sense of the value of that
     asset to their business and is ready to pull the trigger if the price
     is right.  Since Enron approached us with the service concept and the
     asset to be sold, this typical preexisting condition was not present.
     This is a big investment. It is not just the $5M, but an additional
     $15M in marketing, selling, designing, building, maintaining, and
     operating costs. Further, any delta between the $5M and the 30% TSH
     take due to Enron is additional investment for Accenture.  So, we are
     really evaluating a $20+M investment, not a $5M investment.
     There is not good historical evidence that transaction based
     businesses, on a stand alone basis, are sustainable over any long term
     horizon (just look at the dot.bomb bust).
     Pricing determination for a transaction based business is difficult
     and highly volatile. Our market review has proven this yet again.

I highlight these dynamics to explain, not excuse, our need to approach
things the way that we have. That being said, I will reiterate that we
would not even be performing this analysis (itself costly) if we did not
have the highest regards for Enron, our collective ability to do well in
the marketplace together, and a general bullishness for the value of this
offering.

I look forward to hearing from you all on Monday. Thanks,
