STANDARD OPERATIONAL FORMAT & GUIDANCE for REPORTING PROGRESS on the UNDAF
January 2010

STANDARD OPERATIONAL
FORMAT & GUIDANCE for
REPORTING PROGRESS
on the UNDAF
January 2010
2 Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF
28 January 2010 UNDG Working Group on
Programming Issues
Preamble
General Assembly resolution A/RES/62/208 on the triennial comprehensive policy review (TCPR) underscored
that the Resident Coordinator, supported by the United Nations Country Team (UNCT), should report to national
authorities on progress made against results agreed in the United Nations Development Assistance Framework
(UNDAF).1 This request was reiterated in Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) resolution 2009/1, which
specifically requested that the Secretary-General, through the United Nations Development Group and its
member agencies, develop a standard operational format on reporting for this purpose, bearing in mind the need
to reduce the administrative burden and transaction costs.
The standard operational format and guidance for developing the UNDAF Progress Report are a direct response
to these requests. They are a product of an extensive consultative process with UN staff at both headquarters and
country levels.
In addition, UNDG sees the standard operational format for reporting progress on the UNDAF as part of UN
reform efforts towards greater system-wide coherence, simplification and harmonization. It also represents the
UN’s response to the wider aid effectiveness agenda by supporting greater mutual accountability between the
UN and national authorities at country level.
The ECOSOC resolution included an explicit statement on the need to reduce the administrative burden and
transaction costs. As with other UN reform coordination initiatives, there will be time and other costs incurred
when developing the UNDAF Progress Report. However, to minimize these costs, this guidance is based, to the
extent possible, on material drawn from information and reports from existing systems and processes that Country
Teams have in place.
The extent to which the administrative burden and transaction costs can be further reduced will be contingent
upon introduction of parallel initiatives on, for example, common business practices and expenditure reporting,
which are being addressed under other UNDG processes. These initiatives, once implemented, will help to
provide clarity and reduce the burden to Country Teams of producing the UNDAF Progress Report.
1 In this document, reference to national authorities includes technical ministries and development agencies corresponding to the mandates
of UN agencies and bodies. The reporting also envisages social partners. In the case of outcomes related to labour and employment, ‘social
partners’ includes workers’ and employers’ organizations.
Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF 3
Table of Contents
Preamble...................................................................................................................................................................2
Table of Contents.....................................................................................................................................................3
1. Introduction.........................................................................................................................................................4
2. Principles.............................................................................................................................................................5
3. Purpose of the UNDAF Progress Report ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? 8
4. Standard Operational Format for the UNDAF Progress Report ????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????? 8
5. Using the Annual Review Process to Develop the UNDAF Progress Report ????????????????????????????????????????????? 12
Annex 1: Examples of Good Practice in the Annual Review Process.............................................................15
Annex 2: An Example of Assessing the UN’s Contribution in Rwanda...........................................................16
Annex 3: Examples of Good Practice for the UNDAF Progress Report..........................................................19
Annex 4: Annexes to the UNDAF Progress Report: Examples and Guidance ??????????????????????????????????????????????? 21
Annex 5: Roles and Responsibilities in the Production of the UNDAF Progress Report..............................23
4 Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF
1. Introduction
The purpose of this guidance note is to help Country
Teams to implement General Assembly resolution
A/RES/62/208 on the TCPR effectively. It does this by
providing Country Teams with a standard operational
format for producing an UNDAF Progress Report.2
This guidance was developed following extensive
review and consultations with UN staff in field offices
and at headquarters. It also provides examples of
good practice in the annual review process that were
collected to serve as inputs to support this exercise
by the UNDG.3 Consultations during the development
of this guidance highlighted the importance of making
it relevant and responsive to field needs and the
commitment from the Country Teams, if the process
is to be successful. The guidance is therefore
designed to be short, concise and easy to use
by Country Teams.
This guidance also responds to the need to offer
flexibility to Country Teams in developing a coherent
approach that is: (a) responsive to country needs;
(b) fits with the context within which Country Teams
operate; and (c) the level of capacity existing within
Country Teams. To support those who will lead the
development of the reporting approach and UNCT
management, hyperlinks to examples from existing
results reports and other relevant UN guidance are
provided in the annexes.
The guidance on the UNDAF Progress Report is
consistent with the UNDAF guidelines for Country
Teams entitled: How to Prepare an UNDAF: Part (I)
Guidelines for UN Country Teams and Part (II)
Technical Guidance for UN Country Teams.
According to the UNDAF guidelines, the UNCT and
the government must conduct an annual review of the
UNDAF. While it is essential that the annual review
process is documented, an annual Progress Report
is not mandatory. However, as a minimum, a single
UNDAF Progress Report must be produced per
UNDAF cycle.
The following is a summary of the contents of the
different parts of the guidance:
• Part 2 elaborates key principles that the UNCT
should consider;
• Part 3 identifies the purpose of the UNDAF
Progress Report;
• Part 4 presents the standard operating format
(structure) that UNCTs should use to develop the
UNDAF Progress Report;
• Part 5 outlines the annual review process to
develop the analysis and narrative for the sections
of the UNDAF Progress Report; and
• Additional material and good practice examples
are annexed.
2 UNCT refers to representatives of the UN funds, programmes and specialized agencies and other UN entities accredited to a given country.
It could also include representatives of the Bretton Woods institutions.
3 (a) UNDAF Annual Review Process and Annual Review Reporting – Good Practice Study. Report produced for the UNDG, September 2009
and (b) Mapping Exercise and Analysis of Agency Annual Report Requirements, June 2009.
Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF 5
2. Principles
a. The TCPR 2007 requests that “the resident
coordinator, supported by the United Nations
Country Team, should report to national
authorities on progress made against results
agreed in the United Nations Development
Assistance Framework.” This request was
reiterated in paragraph 10 of the 2009 ECOSOC
Resolution, which further requested that “the
Secretary-General, through the United Nations
Development Group and its member agencies,
develop a standard operational format for
reporting for this purpose, bearing in mind
the need to reduce administrative burden
and transaction costs.”
The UNDG interprets the above to mean that Country
Teams must produce a report to national authorities
on progress towards the UNDAF results at least once
during the UNDAF cycle. However, the option remains
open for the UNCT to decide, in consultation with
government and other key partners, to produce more
than a single UNDAF Progress Report per UNDAF
cycle, if this will add value.
b. The UNDAF Progress Report should focus on
reporting the UN’s contribution to results at
the UNDAF outcome level.
Results should be reported at the UNDAF outcome level,
with discussion of the evidence of the UN’s contribution
towards these results. Outcomes describe the intended
changes in development conditions and normally relate
to changes in institutional performance or behaviour
among individuals or groups which partially result from
UNCT cooperation. The report should not discuss UN
supported activities; it should only report on outputs in
terms of how their achievement has contributed to the
outcomes defined in the UNDAF results framework.
c. The UNDAF Progress Report is a tool to enhance
mutual accountability with national authorities.
The report is intended to contribute to the UN’s
response to the wider aid effectiveness agenda by
supporting greater mutual accountability between the
UN and Member States at country level.4
d. The UNCT and government are required to
have clear agreement on how the UNDAF
Progress Report is to be used and the
frequency of reporting.
UN agencies and their partners remain accountable for
the performance of individual projects and programmes,
and the UNDAF Progress Report does not blur this
existing line of accountability. The UNCT and government
agree on how the UNDAF Progress Report is to be used
to reinforce mutual accountability for progress towards
UNDAF outcomes and any other uses of the report.
As a minimum, a single UNDAF Progress Report
must be produced per UNDAF cycle, with the timing
to be agreed between the Country Team and national
authorities.5 The option remains open for the UNCT
to decide, in consultation with government and other
key partners, to produce more than a single UNDAF
Progress Report per UNDAF cycle, if this will add
value. Delivering as One countries are currently
required to report annually.
4 Mutual accountability has become established as a consideration of development and aid effectiveness, although questions remain
on its actual implications. For the purpose of the UNDAF Progress Report, mutual accountability is interpreted to mean the respective
accountability of parties working together towards shared outcomes. This notion of respective accountability reflects the fact that
accountability is not fungible and must, in the final analysis, be attached to a specific actor. Many stakeholders contribute to UNDAF
outcomes and each is accountable for its contribution. The UNDAF Progress Report will focus on UNCT contributions to these outcomes
and, as such, will address the respective accountability—at the outcome level—of each UNCT.
5 The suggestion is that the UNDAF Progress Report would have the maximum impact if produced in the first quarter of the last year of the
UNDAF cycle. This will maximize the use of UNDAF evaluation work normally carried out in the penultimate year. First, the context analysis
can draw upon the common country analysis work carried out in the penultimate year. Second, the annual review and UNDAF design
processes in the penultimate year will both provide analysis of the relevance of the UN’s support and contribution, and agreement with the
Government on lessons learned and the way forward. Finally, the UNDAF evaluation would enhance the credibility of results reported, as it
would provide an impartial assessment of the evidence of the UN’s contribution and much of the narrative needed in the UNDAF Progress
Report on the UN’s contribution by outcome.
6 Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF
e. Reporting is an integral part of a comprehensive
and strategic UNDAF planning and programming
cycle, which supports informed, evidence-based
decision making.
The credibility of the results reported will depend on
how well the UNDAF planning and annual review
systems operate. The annual review process should
inform and provide inputs for the UNDAF Progress
Report. Ideally an UNDAF process reflects:
• Strong links to national priorities and national
ownership of the UNDAF;
• An approach based on the current UNDAF
guidelines or country-specific modifications;
• UN staff ownership of the UNDAF and strong
support for the annual review process and
UNDAF progress reporting by the UNCT;
• Involvement of both national authorities and
UNCT members, including specialized and
non-resident agencies;
• Simplified procedures and reduced transaction
costs for partners, including government;
• A scale of effort appropriate for the
country programme;
• A strong results-based management (RBM)
approach, examining results areas and
indicators against the work that has been
done, the outputs and outcomes, and utilizing
a credible monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
plan and modification of the UNDAF based on
periodic reviews and evaluations; and
• UNDAF programming principles, particularly the
principle of human rights-based approach as
established by the UN and specialized agencies.6
f. Strong engagement and ownership by national
partners and the UNCT are critical.
Strong engagement, ownership and leadership are
required from both national authorities and the UNCT
in order to develop an UNDAF Progress Report. Unity
of purpose and commitment within the UNCT, as well
as the participation of national partners, are vital.
g. UNCTs have the flexibility to decide what
and how much information is presented in
the UNDAF Progress Report.
The UNDAF Progress Report should be short and
focused on reporting results at a strategic level in
order to minimize transaction costs and enhance
clarity and value.
The standard operational format is applicable to
most country situations, since the areas of focus are
generic.7 The amount of narrative and evidence
presented is decided by the UNCT in consultation
with the national authorities and would reflect the
performance information available. This will depend
on the stage of the UNDAF cycle and the amount of
analysis available from either the UNCT (i.e., UNDAF
end-of-cycle or other evaluations) or the national
authorities and other stakeholders.
h. Maximize use of data from existing reporting
systems, wherever possible.
To assess progress towards outcomes, the UNCT
will rely on data from national systems, where
available. UNCTs determine how far outputs have
been achieved and how far they are likely to contribute
to the outcomes. In doing so, UNCTs also maximize
the use of performance data from project/programme
performance assessments, the RC Annual Report,
and any process for reviewing UN reform.
6 Universal rights are part of each Member State’s commitments under the UN Charter, the constitutions of the specialized agencies and
related declarations and conventions. Each stage of the programming cycle should ensure that adherence to such principles and rights
is promoted by the UNCT. Reporting should include measurement of progress on principles and rights.
7 The format is also applicable in post-conflict situations, where the UN has developed a transition plan. However, UNCTs should have
flexibility to decide how to report on the UN’s humanitarian response, where relevant.
Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF 7
3. Purpose of the UNDAF Progress Report
The UNDAF Progress Report serves as a tool to show
progress towards achieving national development
priorities supported by the UNDAF and thereby
enhances mutual accountability. The UNCT consults
with national authorities to ensure that they share
common expectations on how the UNDAF Progress
Report will be used, where the added value in
enhancing mutual accountability will be gained,
and when in the UNDAF cycle the report(s) will be
produced. In fostering mutual accountability, the
UNCT, government, and other key partners share
key results to which they contribute.
In this context, it is important to remember that it is
during the annual review process that the UNCT
primarily engages with government and other partners,
based on the use of robust performance information,
to increase informed decision making and identify
detailed commitments for the coming year. The
UNDAF Progress Report will be accessible to a range
of stakeholders both within the national authorities
and more widely. The added value of the UNDAF
Progress Report may therefore come through
increased transparency, as it will become the single
point of reference on what has been achieved at the
UNDAF outcome level and the UN’s contribution.
Since countries face different circumstances, the
UNCT, in consultation with the national authorities,
can identify whether the report might meet additional
needs. Suggestions of additional purposes that might
be considered include:
a. Increasing information sharing;
b. Increasing ownership of shared outcomes
between the national authorities, other
stakeholders and the United Nations;
c. Strengthening the strategic management cycle
for the UNDAF by linking assessments of
performance, lessons learned and decisions on
how the overall programme might be adjusted;
d. Documenting agreed revisions of the UNDAF
results framework and consequently changes/
adaptations for which the UN may be held
accountable; and
e. Reporting on implementation of key UN reform at
country level and how the reform enhances UN
coherence and effectiveness.
8 Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF
This section provides an outline of the standard
operational format for the UNDAF Progress Report.
The format includes the following five sections and
required annexes.
I. Introduction
Length: 2-3 pages
What should be covered?
• State the purpose agreed with the Government for
the UNDAF Progress Report and summarize the
process for developing the report;
• Briefly describe how relevant national strategies,
the poverty reduction strategy paper (PRSP)
and sector-wide approaches (SWAPs), if relevant,
link to the achievement of the internationally
agreed development goals, including the
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs);
• Briefly describe the UNDAF, its time span, goals
and links between UNDAF outcomes and
achievement of the internationally agreed
development goals, including the MDGs;
• State the period covered by the UNDAF Progress
Report and describe any revisions of the UNDAF
that occurred during the reporting period;
• Identify the UN agencies for which results are
included and any changes in agency roles that
have affected UNDAF reporting; and
• Cross reference to annex 2, which should
include definitions of key terms to assist
non-UN stakeholders unfamiliar with them.8
II. Key Development Trends
Length: 1-2 pages
What should be covered?
• Key changes during the reporting period that have
affected the development context in which the
UNDAF has been implemented; and
• External trends that affected the risks and
assumptions made on what needed to be in place
for the UN’s support to be effective (i.e., political
changes and emerging priorities that significantly
changed policy focus, disasters [either
humanitarian or natural], significant shifts in
international prices, etc.).
III. Progress Towards the UNDAF Outcomes
and the UN’s Contribution
Length: Suggested 2 pages per UNDAF outcome
What should be covered under each separate
UNDAF outcome?
• A summary of progress in achieving the outcome
against the established baselines and targets for
each outcome. This information should be normally
drawn from information found in the government’s
reporting and data collection systems.
• A narrative report assessing the UN’s contribution to
achieving progress against the UNDAF outcomes
(based on the annual reviews and, where possible,
end-of-cycle reviews, by an inter-agency group
responsible for M&E or equivalent). The narrative
report should focus on:
a. (i) Describing the strategic contribution of
concerned UN agencies; and (ii) whether there
is evidence that the contribution has been
greater thanks to better coherence between
the agency outputs. There is no need to report
on activities under projects and programmes,
and UN outputs should only be identified
in terms of how their achievement has
contributed to a significant change at UNDAF
outcome level. It should also focus on
4. Standard Operational Format for the
UNDAF Progress Report
8 The minimum number of annexes that should be appended to the UNDAF Progress Report is given in annex VI.
Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF 9
TCPR guidance on the contribution of UN
operational activities to national capacity
development and development effectiveness,
including contributions to: (i) capacity building;
(ii) South-South cooperation and development
of national capacities; (iii) gender equality and
women’s empowerment; and (iv) transition
from relief to development, as appropriate to
each country context.
b. Outcome level quantitative indicators rarely
track performance under each of the UN’s five
inter-related programming principles—namely
human rights, gender equality, environmental
sustainability, results-based management and
capacity development. The narrative report on
the UN’s contribution, however, must include
an assessment of the degree to which these
five principles have been reflected in the UN’s
overall contribution and towards making
progress against UNDAF outcomes or other
cross-cutting issues relevant to the country.
c. Identifying advocacy successes of the
United Nations that have led to the
government increasing its commitment or
prioritizing achievement of internationally
agreed normative standards relevant to the
UNDAF outcome.
d. Presenting evidence showing that the UN’s
planned support remains relevant to the
country context and national priorities.
e. Describing progress on the implementation
or realization of principles, rights or other
normative standards.
IV. Progress on UN Reform
Length: 3 pages maximum
What should be included?
• A narrative identifying what the UNCT planned in
this area for the reporting period and the degree to
which these intentions have been met.
• A review of any improved functioning of the UN
development system in line with TCPR guidance
in terms of: (a) coherence, effectiveness and
relevance; and (b) country-level capacity of the
UN development system.
• Assessment of progress against agreed benchmarks
and results, where agreed.
V. Lessons Learned and Way Forward
Length: 3-4 pages maximum
What should be covered?
• Remember that this section addresses issues at
the UNCT level and therefore should not focus on
what is happening within agency-specific projects
and programmes, where accountability remains
with the individual UN agencies and their partners.
• Building on the deliberations during the annual
review process, the narrative should cover the
following issues:
a. Changes in major planning assumptions,
risks and emerging opportunities;
b. Continued relevance of UNDAF outcomes
and outputs to national priorities and broader
country context;
c. Corresponding adjustments to expected
results (country programme outputs);
d. Revisions to strategies, planned activities,
partnerships and resource allocations, and
identification of those responsible for these
changes; and
e. Any agreed changes in the UNDAF
results matrix.
10 Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF
VI. Annexes to the Report
Annex 1: Description of the Annual
Review Process
What should be covered?
• Describe the annual review processes undertaken
and how they fed in to the progress report;
• Explain the annual review and coordination
mechanisms that have been put in place by the
UN and the government and the efficacy of their
use, compared with what is proposed in UN
guidance on the annual review process; and
• Assess the degree to which the process has
been inclusive, including both non-resident and
specialized agencies, and how the UNCT might
strengthen this aspect in the future.
Annex 2: Definitions
What should be covered?
• Provide key definitions particularly for non-UN
stakeholders and a listing of acronyms used.
Annex 3: Indicative and Provisional
Programme Expenditures
What should be covered?
• Report on provisional expenditure across the
whole UN at country level;
• Identify continued funding gaps against the indicative
budget framework found in the UNDAF; and
• Discuss transaction costs and efficiency, where
appropriate, as per TCPR reporting requirements.
Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF 11
Figure 1 illustrates how the information needed to
complete the various sections of the UNDAF Progress
Report can be developed as part of the annual review
process, particularly the sections outlined above on
reporting progress against UNDAF outcomes, the
UN’s contribution and progress on UN reform.
According to the UNDAF guidelines, the UNDAF
annual review process is to be aligned with the review
of the national development plan, to the extent possible.
The agency-specific annual review processes would
contribute to the UNDAF annual review. The annual
review process is where the UNCT primarily engages
with government and other partners to review overall
progress towards results, and takes stock of lessons
and good practices that feed into the annual planning
processes and commitments for the coming year. In
order to facilitate the UNDAF annual review process,
the UNCT engages with national review mechanisms,
where such mechanisms exist for monitoring the
national development priorities and/or forms interagency
groups around each national development
priority reflected in the UNDAF.
As shown in figure 1, a UNCT may follow a three-step
process for conducting an UNDAF annual review. In
step 1, agency-specific annual consultations take
place on their individual programmes/projects to
review and agree on progress made, including on
the related UNDAF outputs. The results of these
consultations will feed into step 2.
In step 2, inter-agency groups responsible for M&E
track the UN’s contribution towards UNDAF outcome
level results. The M&E groups prepare assessment
reports by UNDAF outcome area, describing the
progress made towards the UNDAF outcome and key
UN’s contributions (as per Section III of the format).
This leads to step 3 where a high level consultation
with the government and other partners takes place
to review overall progress. This is a once-a-year
opportunity for all agencies and national partners to
interact and review the collective contribution of the
UN to national priorities based on the UNDAF. At this
meeting, key lessons learned and the way forward is
agreed and document (as per Section V of the format).
The consultative process, at all levels of the
UNDAF results chain, should provide agencies
and their national counterparts with an opportunity
to assess and make recommendations related
to the: planning assumptions, risks and emerging
opportunities; continued relevance of the UNDAF
results to national priorities; and any revisions to the
planned UNDAF results (at various levels), including
the related strategies, partnerships and resource
allocations. Any adjustments to the UNDAF outcomes
and outputs will need to be made to the corresponding
inter-agency and agency documents to maintain
consistency and alignment.
In a given year, when the UNDAF Progress Report
is being developed, the annual reviews of the current
and previous years (as appropriate) would help to
generate different sections of the progress report,
particularly sections III and V.
The recent Good Practice Study on UNDAF Annual
Review Process and Annual Review Reporting and
consultation during the development of this guidance
identified a number of examples and approaches that
UNCTs could consider in strengthening their annual
review process. Based on field requests, these are
summarized in annex 1 and include hyperlinks to
relevant country-level examples. An example of
contribution analysis is presented in annex 2. More
examples will continue to be compiled and made
available to Country Teams.
5. Using the Annual Review Process to
Develop the UNDAF Progress Report
12 Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF FIGURE 1: USING THE ANNUAL REVIEW PROCESS TO PRODUCE THE RELEVANT ANALYSIS
FOR VARIOUS SECTIONS OF THE UNDAF PROGRESS REPORT
STEP 1: Annual review of UNDAF outputs
• Review and assess progress UNDAF output as part of agency specific
annual review. For shared outputs, involved agencies should collectively
review progress.
• Assess constraints and opportunities and relevance of UNDAF outputs
to national priorities and identify strategic shifts, relating to programme
design and operational issues.
• Update output level indicators, as necessary.
• Identify opportunities to cut transaction costs by using same narrative
for corporate reporting.
• Agree on draft Annual Work Plans and/or equivalent for each agency
for the following year.
STEP 2: Annual review of UNDAF outcomes
• Review progress towards achieving UNDAF outcomes against
established indicators, baselines and targets.
• Identify strategic contribution of agencies and evidence that
their contribution is greater thanks to better coherence between
agency outputs.
• Analyze UN contribution and its ongoing relevance to country context.
• Conduct assessment of effect on human rights, gender equality,
environmental sustainability, RBM, and capacity development in
assessment of outcome progress and UN contribution.
• Review outcome level proposed work plans for the following year.
STEP 3: High level UNDAF consultation with Government
Meeting called by Government and/or RC and coordinated by government
coordinating body and RCO
Rationale:
• Endorse conclusions of UNDAF outcome reviews.
• Consider issues identified in lessons learned and define way forward.
• Look for examples of inter-linkage between outcomes.
High-level UNDAF consultation
with Government
Inter-agency UNDAF M&E Groups
Product:
UNDAF Review
documenting
lessons learned
and way forward
Product:
Synthesis of agency
consultations by
UNDAF outcome
area, describing
progress towards
UNDAF outcomes
and key UN
contributions
Product: Agency
specific findings
emerging from their
annual reviews and
annual work plans
for following year
Agency A,
consultations
Agency B,
consultations
Agency C,
consultations
Agency D,
consultations
Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF 13
Annex 1. Examples of Good Practice in
the Annual Review Process
The table below represents a compilation of country examples in four broad areas related to the annual review
process. These examples have been collected in an attempt to share good practices, including in undertaking
specific tasks related to the preparation, conduct and result of an annual review process. The examples may help
provide further guidance and/or be adapted to different country contexts, as appropriate.
Area One: Planning the UNDAF annual review with national partners as a tiered cumulative process
How to: Examples
• Develop a concept note with guidance and a schedule
for implementing the annual review and include them
in the UNDAF
• Determine a manager for the process such as a
consultant, agency staff or a lead agency, with
co-manager from the government
• Determine the resources and time that should be
applied to the process, in addition to how far in
advance and/or periodically the analysis that
should take place
• Determine how non-resident agencies (NRAs)
will participate
• Develop jointly agreed terms of reference (TOR) for
all stakeholders in the process and vet them
• Develop a schedule for the annual milestones
• Incorporate the process into the flow of UNCT reporting
requirements and choices
• Gain agreement with high level Government officials
for the process and schedule
• Promote adherence to process through the RC
and Government counterpart and the agreement
on deadlines
• Pacific UNDAF 2008-2012 Annual
Review Guidelines
• Viet Nam: Guidance Note on PCG Annual
Review, Reporting and Planning Process,
2009-2010
• Solomon Islands: Joint Strategy Meeting,
Objectives, Methodology and Messages, 2008
• Papua New Guinea Mini-paper, Integrated UN
Annual Progress Report (with flow of quarterly
reports into annual report)
• Cambodia, UNDAF Evaluation 2008 (concept
note with government expectations)
• Democratic Republic of the Congo, 2008
(UNDAF M&E concept note with budget for
annual review meeting)
• Malawi, 2008 Guidelines for UNDAF
Annual Review
• Bosnia-Herzegovina: TOR for UNDAF
Evaluation Consultant 2009
(cont’d) h
14 Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF
Area Two: Consolidating material from individual agency consultations into UNDAF Progress Reports
How to: Examples
• Develop UNDAF Outcome Reports
• Develop templates for reporting at UNDAF
outcome level
• Ensure that cross-cutting issues are covered
in the UNDAF Outcome Reports
• Viet Nam: Guidance Note on PCG Annual
Review, Reporting and Planning Process,
2009-2010
• Azerbaijan, UNDAF Annual Review Report 2008
(6 step process)
• Bangladesh UNDAF Annual Review Report 2007
(6 outcome groups, 6 reports and 6 workshops)
• Solomon Islands: UNDAF Annual Review Outline,
2008 (clear directives, dates, times, budget, roles
of government)
• Mongolia, 2007 Annual Review Report
(preparatory data collection exercise by UN staff)
• Turkey, 2008 UNDAF Midterm Review (notably,
report structure)
Area Three: Gaining high-level endorsement of conclusions in the UNDAF annual review meeting
• Determine with government partners the particulars
of the meeting, the timing, agenda, and invitees
• Consider whether donors should be involved in
the meeting
• Develop objectives for the meeting and determine
what the outputs will be and the follow-up mechanisms
to pursue the recommendations
• Produce a workshop summary report including
conclusions and recommendations, and annexes
with presentations and other key documents
(exchanges by stakeholders)
• Liberia, 2008 Joint Annual Review Meeting
Concept Note
• Zimbabwe, 2007 ‘ZUNDAF’ Annual
Review Workshop
(cont’d) h
g (cont’d)
Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF 15
Area Four: Revising the UNDAF and building RBM and M&E capacity
• Develop and revise the UNDAF and related
operational documents in consideration of
recommendations, lessons learned and good
practices from the annual review
• Promote capacity development in RBM and M&E for
UN and government partner staff
• Establish a division of labour among UNCT on particular
areas of the UNDAF
• Promote the participation of staff and their capacity
development using high level support where needed
• Establish a continuous feedback mechanism
that prompts and documents follow-up actions;
create a flow chart which depicts the way that the
recommendations will be followed up and will influence
the planning; and determine a schedule for issuing
periodic progress reports on the follow up of the
recommendations.
• Revise the UNDAF M&E plan
• Angola 2007 UNDAF Review and Revision
• Bosnia-Herzegovina – UNDAF Annual Review
2008 (review and revision of the UNDAF)
• Egypt M&E system and reporting framework
and concept note on M&E 2009
• Egypt M&E System Flow Diagram 2009
• Egypt, Midterm Review Report, 2009
• Kazakhstan, Annual Review 2008 (summary
matrix of progress)
g (cont’d)
16 Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF
Little guidance is available on contribution analysis,
which is key to reporting in the UNDAF Progress
Report. An example of what an inter-agency group
responsible for M&E might report in terms of the
UN’s contribution is shown below, based on the
experience of the UN in Rwanda, and shows that
contribution does not necessarily require large
amounts of data. As illustrated below, the following
points should be noted:
• The government’s overall goal is to build a
knowledge-based economy in Rwanda;
• Following good practice, the UNDAF outcome to
which the UN is contributing is shared between
the UN and government and other partners;
• The government would provide the data on
primary school completion rates;
• The UNDAF output, which in this example is
shared by four UN agencies, describes what
the UN’s contribution would be to achieving
the related UNDAF outcome; and
• The four UN agencies contributing to this UNDAF
output have also developed agency-specific outputs,
which would be reviewed as part of the regular
projects/programmes M&E processes.
The contribution analysis would then provide narrative
evidence against the following questions:
• Have the four UN agencies delivered their specific
outputs and on schedule? Note that each agency
is accountable for its output and the UN programme
officers should know the performance at this level;
• If all four UN agencies delivered their outputs on
time, were these successfully integrated into a
single model? Note this is where you would look
for synergy and coherence between the outputs
of the four involved agencies and the added value
of a common country programming approach;
• If the UN delivered its UNDAF output, what evidence
is there that the model will be implemented? In this
case, the main evidence would be that the model
was accepted by the government and funding for
its rollout nationwide was put in place. Again, if it is
clear what others are expected to do, this should
not require collecting new data to answer;
• If over the next 3 to 5 years, the government
reports a positive shift in the school completion
rates, what evidence is there that this is partly
due to the UN’s contribution (the model)? In this
case, the government piloted the model and
evaluated its affects on primary school completion
rates and found that there was strong evidence that
the model for education proposed would have the
intended effects upon completion rates.
Annex 2: An Example of Assessing
the UN’s Contribution
Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF 17
FIGURE 2. ASSESSING THE UN’S CONTRIBUTION IN RWANDA
National Goal: To build a
knowledge-based economy
UN agency
1’s output
UN agency
2’s output
UN agency
3’s output
UN agency
4’s output
UNDAF Output: A model for the school environment for
improved learning and building life skills developed by
government with UN support (Note: This is a joint UN
Country Teams output shared by 4 UN agencies)
National Outcome in the Rwanda PRS: All
children (boys and girls) complete primary
education and transit to secondary education
Assume that government
approves model and funds
its implementation across
all Rwanda
18 Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF
Annex 3. Examples of Good Practice for the
UNDAF Progress Report
One UN Results
Report Sections
Country Hyperlinked Source & Title
1. Introduction
2. Key Development
Trends
• Papua New Guinea • Papua New Guinea National Development Trends 2008
3. Progress Towards
The UNDAF
Outcomes and the
UN’s Contribution
• Papua New Guinea
• Malawi9
• Viet Nam
• Papua New Guinea: Outcome Narrative for Education 2008
• Malawi UNDAF Midterm Review 2009
• Viet Nam 2008 One Plan Annual Report
4. Progress on UN
Reform
• Rwanda
• Uruguay
• Rwanda Concept Note on One UN and Four Ones 2007
• Rwanda One UN Status Report 2008
• Uruguay Delivering as One Progress Report 2009
5. Lessons Learned
and Way Forward
• Papua New Guinea
• United Republic
of Tanzania
• Liberia
• Multi-country
• Papua New Guinea Progress Report (key lessons and
recommendations) 2008
• Tanzania 2008 Annual One Programme Report
(See Annex 6-JP6.2, p.12 and Annex 3-JP3, p.13)
• Liberia UNDAF Annual Review Report 2008
• Lessons Learned Delivering as One Pilot Countries
6. Proposed
Annexes to
the UNDAF
Progress Report
1. Description Of
The Annual
Review Process
• Egypt
• Egypt M&E Structure
2. Definitions
• United Republic
of Tanzania
• Tanzania One Programme Annual Report 2008
9 Highlight = waiting for submission
(cont’d) h
Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF 19
One UN Results
Report Sections
Country Hyperlinked Source & Title
3. Indicative And
Provisional Programme
Expenditures (see
Annex 4)
• Albania
• Fiji
• Uruguay
• Albania 2008 One UN Program Annual Report
• Pacific UNDAF Annual Review Report 2008
• Pacific Multi-country Programme Document, 2008-2012
• Uruguay One UN Coherence Fund Annual Report
Annex 5. Roles
and Responsibilities
in Production of
the UNDAF
Progress Report
• Viet Nam • Viet Nam: Guidance Note PCG Annual Review, Reporting
and Planning Process 2009-2010
g (cont’d)
20 Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF
Annex 4: Annexes to the UNDAF Progress
Report – Examples and Guidance
Annex 1: Description of the annual
review process
What should be covered?
• Describe the annual review process, including
timing, participation, etc.;
• Explain the annual review and coordination
mechanisms that have been put in place by the
UN and government partners, and the efficacy
of their use, compared with what is proposed in
UN guidance on the annual review process; and
• Assess the degree to which the process has been
inclusive, including both NRAs and specialized
agencies and how the UNCT might strengthen
this aspect in the future.
Examples: See the flow diagram of the Egypt M&E
and reporting framework and concept note on M&E
(see annex 1, area 4 for link to documents).
Annex 2: Definitions
What should be covered?
• Provide key definitions particularly for non-UN
stakeholders and a listing of acronyms used.
Examples: Tanzania Consolidated One Programme
Annual Report 2008
Annex 3: Indicative and provisional
programme expenditures
Reporting provisional expenditure across the UN
system at country level remains a challenge. Except
for multi-donor trust funds (MDTFs), including One
Funds, administered by the MDTF Office and joint
programmes, current financial reporting systems
are not designed to allow easy compilation of such
data. An automated web-based reporting system,
established by the UNDP MDTF Office, utilizes UNEX
and expense categories agreed to by the UNDG in
2006. Prior to the development of an automated UN
system-wide tool to facilitate the development of
integrated reports, other UNDG work streams
have to ensure: (a) consistent linking of programme
expenditure in financial reporting systems to
UNDAF outcomes by all relevant UN agencies;
and (b) application of harmonized practices for cost
classification across all UN agencies. The latter is
soon to be reviewed by the UNDG and reissued on
the basis of the 2006 agreement.
Until the above has been implemented, it is
recommended that this part of the report focus on:
• Considering adopting the approach to reporting
programme expenditure reflected in the examples
provided in annex 3. For those agencies that do
not currently have a system that links (expenditures
in) their work plan (or the equivalent) to the
UNDAF outcomes, a simple way of making such
a link is shown in Figure 3 below. Experience
suggests that while this takes considerable effort
initially, it does reduce the subsequent burden on
UNCTs, allowing them to focus on substantive
analysis for the report. Introducing such a system
should facilitate the preparation of reports against
UNDAFs on the basis of the common budgetary
framework, country development plans, agency
plans and individual project plans, in response
to requests from stakeholders, including agency
headquarters, the Resident Coordinator, national
governments and development partners.
Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF 21
FIGURE 3: EXAMPLE OF HOW TO APPROACH TAGGING EXPENDITURE
DATA THROUGH AGENCIES FINANCIAL REPORTING SYSTEMS
National Development Plan
Tag/code or whatever
identifier is used
National Priority 1
National Priority …
National Priority …
UNDAF
Tag/Code Tag/Code
Outcome UN1 1
Outcome UN2
Outcome UN3
Agency Strategic Plan/Framework
Tag/code or whatever
identifier is used
Output A1
Output …
Output …
Agency Work Plan
Tag/Code Tag/code or whatever
identifier is used
UN1 Output A1
Output …
Output …
22 Standard Operational Format & Guidance for Reporting Progress on the UNDAF
Annex 5. Roles and Responsibilities for
the Production of the UNDAF
Progress Report
In the TCPR 2007, paragraph 96, the General
Assembly underscored that the Resident Coordinator,
supported by the United Nations Country Team,
is responsible for reporting to national authorities
on progress made against results agreed in the
United Nations Development Assistance Framework.
Therefore, ultimately the Resident Coordinator is
responsible for delivery of the report.
Consultations clearly show, however, that production
of the report is significantly easier if the roles and
responsibilities of those involved, both from within
the UNCT and more broadly, are clearly understood
and accepted.
Broad roles and responsibilities for implementation of
the UNDAF and monitoring and reporting are set out
in the revised UNDAF guidelines.
Examples from the country level of definitions of roles
and responsibilities for annual review and reporting
processes are available in the draft Guidance Note for
the 2009 Review Process for Viet Nam and Albania’s
Delivering as One UN (see annex 1).