The implementation of the Automated Dispatch Messaging System (ADMS) from
the Power Pool of Alberta is proceeding on schedule, however, the processes
for implementation and training are changing slightly as described below.
The purpose of this memo is to inform all of the participants who have been
contacted for the implementation of ADMS of the processes over the next few
weeks and the requirements for the implementation at your dispatch
locations.

Beginning the week of July 2, 2001 and continuing through July 13, 2001,
Power Pool staff will be contacting you individually to provide you with
your username and password and ensure that you are able to log into the web
site.  This initial web site will be on a development system that is not
connected to the active market system.  This will enable participants to log
onto the system to become familiar with the screens and user features as
well as receive test dispatches.

Beginning the week of July 16, 2001, the Power Pool will turn off the
development system web server and transfer to the active market system.  The
System Controller area will contact each participant and "walk you through"
the screens and answer any questions that you may have regarding use of the
system.  Once you are familiar with the system through this conversation,
future active dispatches will then be provided over the ADMS system.  The
sequential addition of participants to the system will enable the orderly
transfer from the voice dispatch process to the automated process with a
minimum of disruption in the dispatch process.

The above process changes the manner in which training will be provided.  In
reviewing the user screens, we believe that participants will be able to
understand how to use the system simply by having access to the system prior
to the implementation.  If there is any difficulties encountered using the
system, the System Controllers will be available to assist you with any
questions as your users begin to use the dispatch system.

The majority of you have indicated that your computer equipment is in place
and that you are ready to start implementation.  If you are unable to start
the implementation process on July 2, 2001, please let the Power Pool
contact know and he will arrange to schedule your user names, passwords and
access closer to July 16, 2001.

The implementation of digital certificates to enhance the security of the
system will be delayed for a short period of time to enable a newer and
simpler digital certificate system.  We believe that by implementing without
the digital certificates, fewer implementation problems will be encountered
and will also simplify the digital certificate installation process with
users at a later date.  Our implementation of username and password
protection combined with server certification provides adequate security in
the short term before the digital certificates are incorporated.

As we discussed, the system provides audible alerts for the users when a
dispatch is received.  I am attaching six files that contains audible alert
sounds for you to load on your computers.  To install these .wav files on
your computers, create a folder
			C:\\PPOA\admin_sounds
and copy these files to the new folder.  Your internet browser will then use
these files for the audible alerts that are provided by the system.  You can
review this with the person who will be contacting you with usernames and
passwords if there is difficulty implementing these alert sounds.

As the implementation portion of the ADMS project moves to the operational
area of the Power Pool, contact points with the Power Pool will change.
Effective immediately, would you please use the following contact names for
work on the ADMS implementation.
