The following guidance is intended to assist policy writers to develop policy documents and should be read in conjunction with the policy document template.
Summary Table:
All the important information relating to the policy should be displayed at the top of the policy document so that it is easily accessible for the reader. This information should include the policy title, date of approval, effective date, date for review, name of the Policy Officer.
Policy Title:
Where possible the first word of the title should refer to the substance of the policy. This will assist the reader access the policy from the policy A-Z, e.g. Accreditation of Prior Learning Policy rather than Policy on the Accreditation of Prior Learning.
Structure: Information should be presented in a logical sequence to assist the reader. Policy writers should use the 7 section structure provided within the template but may create sub-headings if necessary.
1. Context
May contain some contextual or background information and may include a sentence on how the policy supports the University’s strategic plan.
2. Definitions
If necessary include an explanation of terms or abbreviations used within the policy and procedure. Where there are existing definitions of the terms in other University regulations or policy those definitions should be used.
2. Purpose
A concise statement on why the policy exists and what is its intent. This statement should not contain background information or detailed explanations, and should be suitable to act as a summary for viewing on the Policy A-Z prior to the user reviewing the whole document.
3. Scope
Specify the parameters of the policy, which university cohort does the policy apply to? This section should also reference any exclusions from the operation of the policy.
5. Policy Principles
Principles should provide broad directional information and the rationale for the policy by embodying the University’s expected outcomes of its application.
6. Roles and Responsibilities
Some policies may require the articulation of roles to be undertaken by those responsible for applying the policy. Outline the University’s expectations and detail the responsibilities of relevant parties.
7. Process (optional)
Detailed operational procedures are separate from policy documents, however, some procedural information may be appropriately provided in the policy document particularly with regard to academic decision making.
POLICY TOOLKIT Guidelines for Completion of Policy Documents
2
Document Management:
Policy documents and appendices are structured and presented consistently using the policy document template.
Document Control
During the development stage there may be a number of people contributing to the development of a draft policy and so document version control is very important. It is the responsibility of the Policy Officer to keep track of the developing drafts of the document via a continuously updated master document. Version numbers should be used to signify each revised version of the draft and a record of summarised revisions should be kept by the Policy Officer.
Document version history:
All policy documents should include a comprehensive revision list at the end of the document. This should chart the formal approval route and note any changes proposed by university committees. This version history should remain on the published policy document and be updated following any subsequent changes to the policy.
Style:
When drafting policy documents it is useful to bear in mind that different audiences are likely to access the policy and that policy users are not necessarily subject-matter experts and may be accessing information on a topic for the first time. It is important that policy documents are written in a clear and concise manner, using plain English and avoiding jargon. To ensure consistency of style and presentation those drafting policy documents are asked to consider the following:
Use the policy document template Use plain English and simple, short sentences Main headings and paragraphs should be numbered sequentially to facilitate referencing Policy should be directive in style and therefore words such as “will” and “must” are appropriate To create a recognisable identity for policy documents a uniform format should be used: font, Arial 11, headings in bold and paragraphs separated by one line space. Policies should be as succinct as possible.