Economic growth in Asia continued to moderate during the first half of 2016 as demand for exports remained subdued and
investment slowed. In mainland China, the domestic economy stabilised as infrastructure investment picked up, housing
market activity remained robust and bank lending continued to grow. Hong Kong’s economy slowed, as activity in the
finance, property, tourism and logistics sectors cooled. However, unemployment remained low and is expected to remain at
current levels. In ASEAN, a number of economies are experiencing better economic conditions, notably Indonesia and the
Philippines, while India continues to grow strongly and is beginning to institute necessary reforms.
In this environment, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited recorded profit before tax in the first half
of 2016 of HK$53,409m, compared with HK$70,079m in the first half of 2015 which included a gain on partial disposal of
Hang Seng Bank Limited’s (‘Hang Seng’) shareholding in Industrial Bank of HK$10,636m. Excluding this gain, net
operating income before loan impairment charges (‘Revenue’) was 7% lower as customer demand for loans and wealth
management services moderated from the high levels seen in 2015, while operating expenses reduced by 6% as we
maintained tight control of costs while continuing to invest in growth initiatives. The cost efficiency ratio for the period
was 42.8%. Loan impairment charges of HK$3bn were higher than the first half of 2015, but remained low in relation to
both average loans and total income, and overall asset quality continued to be strong.
While reduced demand led to a fall in loans and advances to customers, customer deposits increased, driven by Hong
Kong, and net interest income increased by 2%. Non-interest income fell however, principally as equity markets and
related revenues were less buoyant than during the first half of 2015. At the end of June 2016, the loans to deposits ratio
stood at 57.7%. Our capital position remained strong, with a common equity tier 1 ratio of 16.1% at the end of June 2016.
In Retail Banking and Wealth Management (‘RBWM’), we maintained our leading market shares in mortgages and cards
in Hong Kong and grew mortgage lending balances with average loan-to-value ratios of 42% on new drawdowns and an
estimated 32% on the portfolio as a whole. Our market shares in deposits and mutual fund sales in Hong Kong increased.
In July we were awarded ‘Asia Pacific International Retail Bank of the Year’ by Asian Banking & Finance. We are
continuing to invest in digital channels and in expanding our business in the Pearl River Delta (‘PRD’), and plan to launch
credit cards in mainland China during the third quarter of this year.
In Commercial Banking (‘CMB’), we continued to focus on supporting our customers through providing an increased
share of their banking requirements. Although overall market volumes in trade finance were lower, we increased our
market share. Customer advances were lower as a result of repayments and lower trade related lending, but customer
deposits grew, and net interest income increased. In the PRD, we continued to invest in infrastructure, people and
technology in support of our planned business expansion in the region.
In Global Banking and Markets (‘GB&M’), we consolidated our position as the leader in Asia ex-Japan G3 currency bonds
and offshore renminbi bonds with increased share in both markets. We ranked first in Merger & Acquisitions in Hong
Kong by deal value for the period and were awarded ‘Asia’s Best Investment Bank’ and ‘Hong Kong’s Best Investment
Bank’ by Euromoney. In the PRD our securities joint venture based in the Qianhai Special Economic Zone will be
operational following receipt of regulatory approvals, allowing us to engage in the full spectrum of the securities business
in mainland China
Continued moderate demand is likely to hold back growth in Asia and lead to further policy easing in some economies.
Low interest rates and relatively robust financial positions should ensure that financial stability is maintained. We expect
mainland China to continue to generate economic growth at around 6.5%, while India should sustain growth of over 7.0%.
Most of the region’s economies have the capacity to deploy fiscal stimulus through measures including financing
infrastructure development. Our strategy remains unchanged and focused on capturing the long-term opportunities in
Asia’s development as the world’s leading economic region. To achieve this, we will continue to serve and support our
customers as they invest and grow through the cycle.