WATT-EX ANNOUNCES EQUITY FINANCING AND MARKET-MAKER AGREEMENT

Dynegy to Enhance Liquidity in Canadian Electricity Market

Calgary, Alberta, Canada (Oct. 26, 2001) - Alberta Watt Exchange (Watt-Ex)
today announced significant advancement in its long-term business plan with
the execution of two definitive agreements. ENTx Capital Corporation and RAW
Energy Ltd. have agreed to purchase treasury shares in OXEN Inc., the parent
company of Watt-Ex. The new capital will be used to broaden the range of
services offered by Watt-Ex and for general corporate purposes.

Watt-Ex also announced that Dynegy Canada Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of
Dynegy Inc. (NYSE: DYN), has agreed to provide market-maker services. Under
the terms of the agreement, Dynegy Canada will maintain bid and offer prices
in Alberta electricity forward contracts traded on the online Watt-Ex
system.

Dynegy Canada's market-maker service will serve as a platform for enhancing
liquidity in the Alberta electricity market. The increased liquidity will be
available to suppliers and users to manage price risk, reduce financial
uncertainty and bring greater economic performance into the Alberta
electricity market.

Watt-Ex is an independently owned and operated online trading system for
electrical energy in the Alberta market. It allows market participants to
buy and sell contracts for firm forward commitments in the real time or spot
electricity market, as well as providing for the trade of ancillary
services.

ENTx Capital Corporation is a private equity investor, specializing in
emerging, innovative and financially sound small cap operating companies in
the electric power industry.

RAW Energy Ltd. is a private company, active across most aspects of the
energy industry.

Dynegy Inc. is a leading energy merchant and power generator in North
America, the United Kingdom and Continental Europe. A Fortune 100 company,
Dynegy in 2000 established its communications business, Dynegy Global
Communications, which is engaged in providing network solutions and
connectivity to wholesale customers worldwide.

Dynegy has been an active participant in Canadian energy markets since 1994.
With headquarters in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, Dynegy Canada is one of the
country's largest marketers and traders of natural gas, electricity, crude
oil and natural gas liquids.

For further information please contact:
Alberta Watt Exchange Limited
