EIVED

MAY 31 2013
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

In The Matter of:
The Application of SECURITIES INDUSTRY
AND FINANCIAL MARKETS ASSOCIATION

Admin. Proc. File No.

3-/5?f5CJ

For Review of Action Taken by NYSE Area, Inc.

APPLICATION FOR AN ORDER SETTING ASIDE RULE CHANGE
OF NYSE ARCA, INC. LIMITING ACCESS TO ITS SERVICES

The Securities Industry Financial Markets Association ("SIFMA") submits this
application, pursuant to Sections 19(d) and 19(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the
"Act"), for an order setting aside the Proposed Rule Change by NYSE Area, Inc. Relating to Fees
for NYSE Area Depth-of-Book Data, Release No. 34-63291, File No. SR-NYSEArca-201 0-97
(the "Rule Change"). The Rule Change limits the access ofSIFMA's members and their
customers to market data made available by NYSE Area, Inc. (the "Exchange") and is
inconsistent with the Act.
1.

SIFMA is a trade association that represents certain securities firms, banks, and

asset managers. Market data is integral to the business of SIFMA' s members and their
customers.
2.

On November 1, 2010, the Exchange filed the Rule Change, which purports to

allow the Exchange to charge fees for the use of Arcabook, a depth-of-book data feed provided
exclusively by the Exchange. The Rule Change became effective upon filing with the SEC.
3.

Despite SIFMA's comment letter and petition to suspend the Rule Change and

institute proceedings to disapprove it under Section 19(b)(2)(B), the SEC did not act within the
60-day period provided in Section 19 of the Act.
4.

SIFMA then petitioned for review in the Court of Appeals for the District of

Columbia Circuit. On April 30, 2013, the Court dismissed the petition for lack of jurisdiction
while "tak[ing] the Commission at its word ... that it will make the section 19(d) process
available to parties seeking review of unreasonable fees charged for market data, thereby
opening the gate to our review" and reaffirming that NetCoalition v. SEC, 615 F.3d 525 (D.C.
Cir 201 0), "remains a controlling statement of law as to what sections 6 and 11 A of the
Exchange Act require of SRO fees."

-I -

5.

The SEC should set aside the Rule Change because it constitutes a limitation on

access to the Exchange's services for purposes of Section 19(d) and (f) by limiting access to
critical market data for anyone unwilling or unable to pay the onerous, supracompetitive fees the
Exchange is charging. Furthermore, the SEC should set aside the Rule Change under Sections
19(d) and (f) because SIFMA' s members and their customers must pay fees that are not
consistent with the Act. The Rule Change is not "fair and reasonable" and does not "provide for
the equitable allocation ofreasonable ... fees ... among ... persons using [the Exchange's]
facilities." Nor does the Rule Change "promote just and equitable principles of trade," or
"protect investors and the public interest." In sum, the Rule Change is unenforceable under
section 19(b)(3)(C) ofthe Act.
6.

Under the SEC's "market-based" approach, market forces cannot provide a basis

for finding that an exchange's non-core data fees are "fair and reasonable" unless the exchange is
subject to significant competitive forces in setting the fees. The Exchange has offered no
evidence of such competitive forces. The Exchange also has provided no evidence of the cost of
collecting and distributing the data at issue, despite the D.C. Circuit's finding that such costs are
undeniably relevant to whether the Exchange is charging supracompetitive fees. There is,
therefore, no basis for finding that the Rule Change complies with the Act's "fair and
reasonable," or other, requirements.
7.

Finally, the Rule Change is essentially the very same one the Commission

approved in the order vacated by the D.C. Circuit in NetCoalition, such that the Exchange
continues to assess the very same fees that the D.C. Circuit in NetCoalition held were not
established as "fair and reasonable" as required by the Exchange Act.

- 2-

Respectfully submitted,

Dated: May 30, 2013

SIDLEY AUSTIN LLP

~ ~- 1'~,

Carter G. Phillips
Dennis C. Hensley
Kevin J. Campion
Eric D. McArthur
1501 K Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20005
(202) 736-8000
cphillips@sidley.com
Counselfor SJFMA

9642250

Rule of Practice 420( c) Statement: Service upon the applicant may be accomplished by
serving their attorneys at the address listed above.

-3-

