UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10051 / March 8, 2016
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 77318 / March 8, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4349 / March 8, 2016
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 32024 / March 8, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17157

In the Matter of
STEVEN ZOERNACK and
EQUITYSTAR CAPITAL
MANAGEMENT, LLC,

Respondents.

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTION 21C
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, SECTIONS 203(e), 203(f) AND 203(k)
OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940, AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
AND NOTICE OF HEARING
I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Section 21C of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company
Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Steven Zoernack and EquityStar Capital
Management, LLC (“EquityStar”)(collectively, “Respondents”).

II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
Summary
1. These proceedings involve violations of the anti-fraud provisions of the federal
securities laws by Steven Zoernack and his company EquityStar, an unregistered investment
adviser, in connection with the offer and sale of interests in Global Partners Fund, LLC (“Global
Partners”) and Momentum Growth Fund, LLC (“Momentum”), two unregistered investment funds
Zoernack created and then managed through EquityStar. From at least May 2010 through at least
March 2014, EquityStar and Zoernack—EquityStar’s managing member and sole employee—
made material misrepresentations and omissions and engaged in a fraudulent scheme involving this
and other deceptive conduct including:


taking extensive measures to hide Zoernack’s identity as fund manager—while
simultaneously advertising that the funds boasted a seasoned and reputable manager—and
otherwise failing to disclose to investors and others, material facts about Zoernack’s
background, including two felony fraud convictions, a bankruptcy filing, and other money
judgments and liens against Zoernack;



providing false and misleading data about Momentum to Morningstar, Inc. (a company that
provides independent investment research to individuals, financial advisers and institutions)
in order to obtain for Momentum the title of “Morningstar Five Star Rated Fund,” which
Zoernack then used to market the fund. For example, Zoernack misrepresented to
Morningstar that the Momentum fund had been in existence for years longer than it
actually had, and that its assets were more than 40 times higher than they actually were;



creating and distributing false and misleading investment marketing materials, which failed
to adequately indicate that results were hypothetical and not based on actual fund
performance;



hiring a firm to manipulate Internet search results for Zoernack and populating the Internet
with false and misleading information about him, including that he was a successful fund
manager, investor, and philanthropist. This had the effect of making it harder for potential
investors and others to discover information about Zoernack’s criminal convictions and
other negative information about him; and



secretly withdrawing more than $1 million from about February 2012 to at least May 2014,
without authorization, and without disclosing his withdrawals to investors, and falsely
characterizing the withdrawals as assets of the funds.

2. Through this deceptive conduct, Zoernack and EquityStar fraudulently offered and sold
at least $5.6 million of interests in Momentum and Global Partners to more than 40 investors in
about 20 states and two foreign countries. Respondents’ conduct violated the anti-fraud
provisions of the federal securities laws.

Respondents
3. Steven Zoernack, age 53, resides in Nokomis, Florida. He is the managing member
and sole employee of EquityStar. Zoernack is also the managing member for both the Momentum
and Global Partners funds.
4. EquityStar Capital Management, LLC, is a Delaware limited liability company
formed May 20, 2010. Zoernack is the managing member and sole employee of EquityStar.
During all relevant periods, EquityStar’s principal offices were located in Newport Beach,
California, and Washington, D.C. EquityStar is an unregistered investment adviser for Global
Partners and Momentum.
Related Entities
5. Momentum Global Growth Fund, LLC, is a Delaware limited liability company
formed July 10, 2012. Zoernack is its managing member. During all relevant periods, its principal
offices were located in Newport Beach, California. Momentum is an unregistered investment
fund.
6. Global Partners Fund, LLC, is a Delaware limited liability company formed
May 20, 2010. Zoernack is its managing member. During all relevant periods, its principal offices
were located in Newport Beach, California. Global Partners is an unregistered investment fund.
EquityStar’s Investment Offerings
7. Between approximately March 2011 and at least March 2014, Zoernack and EquityStar
offered and sold interests in the two investment funds, Momentum and Global Partners. From
about March 2011 to about mid-2012, Zoernack and EquityStar offered and sold interests in Global
Partners, raising at least $2.6 million from more than 20 investors in approximately 13 states and
Singapore. Between August 2012 and at least March 2014, Zoernack and EquityStar offered and
sold interests in Momentum, raising approximately $3 million in interests from about 20 investors
in approximately 11 states and Canada.
8. Zoernack handled all activities of EquityStar, Global Partners, and Momentum. He
drafted all marketing and offering materials, responded to all substantive information requests, and
made all investment decisions. In order to create the appearance that EquityStar was more than a
one-man operation – and to otherwise conceal his identity as fund manager in furtherance of his
fraudulent scheme – Zoernack used at least three other false identities in communications with
investors, prospective investors and others. One of the false identities was a non-existent woman
named Amanda Sutton, to whom Zoernack gave the title of Investor Relations Professional.
9. Global Partners and Momentum maintained brokerage accounts at two broker-dealer
firms during the relevant period. Both funds invested primarily in large cap stocks. Zoernack used
several independent fund administrators to calculate earnings (using the broker-dealer monthly

account statements) and send monthly statements to investors during the course of his scheme.
Zoernack employed another company to prepare annual tax statements for investors.
Respondent Misrepresented and Omitted Material Facts About Zoernack’s Background
10. In the offer and sale of interests in the funds, the solicitation and marketing materials
Zoernack drafted and distributed stressed the funds’ reliance on the manager and claimed that the
unnamed manager had “an impeccable and unblemished past record with the SEC.” The unnamed
manager was Zoernack, who had two criminal fraud convictions, had previously filed for
bankruptcy, and had numerous money judgments and liens against him. Neither he nor EquityStar
disclosed to prospective investors these facts about his background, which would have been
important to a reasonable investor’s investment decision.
11. Zoernack also took extensive steps to conceal his criminal history and troubling
financial record. Zoernack paid an Internet-based search engine manipulator (“Internet
company”), $10,000 to make negative information about him appear less prominently in search
engine results. The Internet company did this by acquiring multiple website domain names and
populating them with positive information about Zoernack—provided and approved by
Zoernack—then “hitting” the positive websites numerous times, thereby causing the positive
information about Zoernack to appear in search engine results before negative information.
However, much of the positive information that results from an Internet search of Zoernack’s name
is false or misleading.
12. In early 2012, EquityStar’s first fund administrator warned Zoernack numerous times
about his poor fund management decisions and actions. In one email, the CEO of the fund
administrator stated that, if Zoernack did not understand why one of the actions he had taken was
inappropriate, “then I strongly recommend you hand back all of the investors[’] money ASAP
before you end up in prison. And that’s the best advice I have ever given you.” Ultimately, after
only a few months, the first fund administrator, auditor, and lawyers resigned because of
Zoernack’s mismanagement of the Global Partners fund. In hiring EquityStar’s second fund
administrator, Zoernack attempted to hide his involvement by having his wife sign the contract
falsely identifying her as the managing director of the Global Partners fund and not indicating that
he had any role in managing it.
EquityStar, Zoernack, and Momentum Used False and Misleading Information to Gain a
Five-Star Morningstar Listing for Momentum
13. Morningstar is an independent investment research firm. Its website provides investors
with a quantitative assessment of a fund’s past performance compared with other similar funds. A
five-star rating, Morningstar’s highest, is given to only 10% of the funds rated by Morningstar.
Morningstar’s rating is based on a fund’s performance data, which is provided by the fund’s
management. Morningstar does not independently confirm the information supplied to it by fund
managers and includes a disclaimer to that effect on each Morningstar report. Zoernack supplied
false and misleading information to Morningstar in order to secure a Five-Star rating for the
Momentum fund.

14. Momentum’s listing on Morningstar—which was based entirely on information
Zoernack provided to Morningstar through its web portal—indicated that Momentum had a
performance history that began in 2009 with returns in the top 20% of all funds, and that it had
more than $120 million in funds under management. This statement was false and misleading for
multiple reasons. First, Momentum did not exist prior to 2012. This was a significant
misrepresentation because, according to Morningstar’s requirements, without at least three years’
worth of performance results a fund was not eligible to be listed on Morningstar’s website.
Second, most of Momentum’s returns listed in the Morningstar report were hypothetical or the
results of “back-testing,” not actual performance results. Nowhere in the information Zoernack
provided for the Morningstar listing—which then appeared on Morningstar’s website—did
Zoernack disclose the purportedly hypothetical or “back-tested” nature of Momentum’s
performance. Third, Momentum had nowhere near $120 million in total assets under management;
in reality, the fund never had more than $3 million in assets. Finally, the Morningstar report
contained a biography of Zoernack—which he provided—that failed to disclose his criminal
convictions, bankruptcy, other money judgments or liens against him.
15. Zoernack provided all the information about Momentum on Morningstar’s website. He
knew that the false and misleading information appeared in the funds’ Morningstar listings because
he received copies of them periodically from Morningstar.
16. As a result of the false information Zoernack provided, Momentum appeared on the
Morningstar website as a five-star rated fund when Zoernack and EquityStar offered and sold
interests in the fund; and EquityStar and Zoernack, advertised Momentum as a “Morningstar FiveStar Rated fund.” Moreover, Zoernack routinely touted EquityStar as an award winning fund and
even incorporated the claim that it was “Awarded Morningstar 5 Star Fund” into his standard email
signature block, sending many emails to investors and others which contained this misleading
information.
Respondents Made Misleading Statements About the Funds’ Investing Performance
17. Zoernack and EquityStar included false and misleading statements about investment
returns for Global Partners and Momentum in marketing materials and emails. These returns were
not the actual returns of the funds, but were based on what Zoernack asserted was a “back-testing”
algorithm. However, in many of these marketing materials, Zoernack and EquityStar did not
disclose that the purported results were not actual results but were based on Zoernack’s putative
“pro-forma back-testing.” In other materials, Zoernack included a misleading and confusing
footnote about the back-tested nature of the returns.
18. One of the methods Zoernack used to seek new investors was to send out materially
misleading solicitation emails to addresses he obtained through purchased leads. He sent one such
email to dozens of individuals in the business community on October 30, 2012, soliciting them to
invest in the Momentum Growth Fund. The email was materially misleading in various ways.
First, it was purportedly sent by the non-existent Ms. Sutton, when it was really sent by Zoernack.
Second, it touted EquityStar as an “award winning alternative investment fund manager” which
“Morningstar gives . . . 5 stars out of 5” despite the fact that Zoernack procured the rating for the

Momentum fund by providing wholly false and misleading data to Morningstar. Third, the email
asserted that “EquityStar’s reputation and credibility is [sic] further enhanced by the use of outside
auditors and an independent fund administrator.” Zoernack and EquityStar did not inform
investors that the prior fund administrator, auditors, and lawyers had all resigned.
Zoernack Misused Investors’ Funds
19. According to the offering memoranda for Global Partners and Momentum,
EquityStar would receive a management fee of 3% annually (or .25% monthly) for each fund. The
offering documents for each fund also stated that EquityStar would receive a 25% incentive
allocation on net profits.
20. From approximately February 2012 to at least May 2014, Zoernack made tens of
thousands of dollars a month in unauthorized withdrawals from both the Global Partners and
Momentum trading accounts. These withdrawals were in addition to the fees and expenses
authorized by the funds’ offering memoranda.
21. In all, Zoernack withdrew more than $1 million from fund assets that he was not
authorized to take. Zoernack transferred the money from the funds’ trading accounts to the
EquityStar account. From there, Zoernack transferred some of the funds to his personal bank
account or other bank accounts under his control (including a family trust account). In other cases,
Zoernack paid personal expenses directly from the EquityStar account, using checks, wires, and a
debit card.
22. The original offering memorandum for each fund did not allow fund assets to be used
to pay day-to-day expenses, such as rent, salaries, administration, legal, audit, and tax and
accounting. Instead, the documents stated that the fund manager was responsible for those
expenses. Although Zoernack later changed the offering memorandum for the Momentum fund
(but not the Global Partners fund), most investors did not receive any offering memorandum, let
alone one containing language that would permit Zoernack to borrow money or use fund assets (to
pay either himself or even legitimate management company liabilities).
23. Zoernack repeatedly represented to the second fund administrator that his withdrawals
from the funds were loans he would repay and thus should be accounted for as receivables due
from Zoernack to Global Partners and Momentum. For instance, as early as September 26, 2012,
Zoernack sent a letter to the managing director of the second fund administrator in which he
asserted that he would “reimburse the [Global Partners] fund for the[] higher than usual expenses”
the fund had purportedly incurred to that point. He added, “Our plan is to have these higher than
usual expenses reimbursed in full with 7% interest on or before December 31, 2012.” But neither
Zoernack nor EquityStar reimbursed the funds “in full” or paid any interest whatsoever. Instead,
Zoernack continued his withdrawals, largely unabated, more than tripling what he had agreed to
pay the funds by early 2014.
24. Due to a combination of Zoernack’s substantial unauthorized withdrawals and trading
losses, the value of the Global Partners fund fell precipitously. In or about September 2012,
Zoernack closed the fund to new investors. Around that time he started the Momentum fund and

urged investors—who were then unaware that almost 21% of the value of the Global Partners fund
was listed as a fund asset based on Zoernack’s unauthorized cash withdrawals—to transfer their
balances from Global Partners to Momentum. Some of them followed his recommendation. This
resulted in significant further losses for all those who did.
25. At no time before March 2014 did Zoernack or EquityStar disclose to investors the
existence of the withdrawals or balance of the alleged receivables Zoernack promised the second
fund administrator he would repay. As a result, investors were misled with respect to a material
fact, i.e., the value of their EquityStar fund portfolios. That is because, as discussed above,
Zoernack continued to have the fund administrator identify his withdrawals in the funds’ financial
statements as assets, rather than expenses, of Global Partners and Momentum. As assets, they
were included in the monthly account values sent by the fund administrator to Global Partners and
Momentum investors, causing the investors’ account balances and net returns to be materially
inflated. The monthly statements to investors, however, did not identify the existence or amounts
of the withdrawals by Zoernack or that there was an ever-increasing receivable balance.
26. The withdrawals were unauthorized and undisclosed. The offering materials for Global
Partners and Momentum did not authorize the withdrawals Zoernack made, and investors were not
aware that their account values in monthly statements included withdrawals made by Zoernack.
27. The withdrawals were also material, totaling more than $1 million. By May 2014, after
large trading losses and after some investors redeemed their interests in the funds, the withdrawals
accounted for nearly 75% of Global Partners’ NAV and almost 50% of Momentum’s NAV
reported to investors.
Violations
28. As a result of the conduct described above, Zoernack and EquityStar willfully violated
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of securities and in connection
with the purchase or sale of securities.
29. As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents Zoernack and EquityStar also
willfully violated Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibit fraudulent and
deceptive conduct by an investment adviser with respect to any client or prospective client, and
Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, which prohibit making an untrue
statement of a material fact or omitting any material fact to any investor or prospective investor in
a pooled investment vehicle and engaging in any act, practice, or course of business that is
fraudulent or deceptive with respect to any investor or prospective investor in a pooled investment
vehicle.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems it
necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist
proceedings be instituted to determine:

A. whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in connection
therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such allegations;
B. what, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondents
pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(f) of the Advisers Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Sections 203(i) and 203(j) of the Advisers Act;
C. what, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondents
pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act; and
D. whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, Respondents should be ordered to cease and desist from
committing or causing violations of and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act,
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, Sections 206(1), 206(2), and 206(4)
of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, whether Respondents should be ordered to pay a
civil penalty pursuant to Section 8A(g) of the Securities Act, Section 21B(a)(2) of the Exchange
Act, and Section 203(i) of the Advisers Act, and whether Respondents should be ordered to pay
disgorgement pursuant to Section 8A(e) of the Securities Act, Section 21C(e) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(j) and 203(k)(5) of the Advisers Act.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the questions
set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule 220
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondents fail to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being duly
notified, the Respondents may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against
them upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as
provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.
§§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents personally or by certified mail.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged
in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related
proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness
or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within

the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the
provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

