UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10237 / October 21, 2016
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79134 / October 21, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16228
ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF
THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

In the Matter of
NAVAGATE, INC. and
GREGORY RORKE
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate to enter
this Order Making Findings and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section 8A of the
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act”) against Navagate, Inc. (“Navagate”) and Gregory Rorke (“Rorke” and, together
with Navagate, “Respondents”).1
II.
Respondents have submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission
has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondents
admit the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these proceedings, and
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section
8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
1

On October 31, 2014, the Commission instituted cease-and-desist proceedings pursuant
to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange Act against
Respondents.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds2 that:
Summary
1.
From December 2009 through March 2011, Respondents made and disseminated
false and misleading statements concerning the risks of investing in short-term notes of Navagate, a
start-up venture purporting to create and sell sales force automation software. Specifically, in an
effort to sell the notes (the “Notes”), Respondents made a number of false and misleading
statements concerning (a) the assets purporting to guarantee the Notes and (b) Navagate’s tax
liabilities. Despite Respondents’ awareness, or reckless disregard, of these false statements,
Respondents prepared and distributed certain offering documents (the “Offering Documents”)
containing these falsehoods and reiterated the false statements to prospective investors. In
addition, Respondents knew or recklessly disregarded that Navagate’s placement agent,
Middlebury Securities, LLC (“Middlebury”) and one of its principals, Gregory Osborn (“Osborn”),
were also repeating many of the same false and misleading statements to prospective investors.
2.
Between December 2009 and April 2011, Respondents, Middlebury, and Osborn
sold approximately $3.2 million worth of the Notes (the “Notes Offering”). The Notes were
purportedly backed by a personal guarantee from Rorke (the “Personal Guarantee”).
3.
To demonstrate that he had sufficient assets to make good on his Personal
Guarantee, Rorke signed a personal financial statement (the “Personal Financial Statement”). The
Personal Financial Statement purported to show that (a) Rorke solely owned over $12 million in
assets, including $6 million in liquid assets, consisting of cash and readily-marketable securities,
and over $1 million in real estate; and (b) Rorke had no liabilities.
4.

2

In fact, as Respondents knew or recklessly disregarded:
a.

Virtually all of the $6 million in liquid assets—including almost all of the
purportedly pledged cash and readily marketable securities—as well as the
real estate, belonged solely to Rorke’s wife, who did not pledge any of her
assets in connection with the Notes Offering (or otherwise obligate herself
to make good on Rorke’s Personal Guarantee);

b.

Even including his wife’s unpledged assets, Rorke overstated the value of
the liquid assets (the cash and readily-marketable securities) listed in the
Personal Financial Statement by over 36%; and

c.

Rorke failed to disclose over $1,000,000 owed in federal taxes for which he
was personally liable.

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2

5.
As a result of the above—as Respondents knew or recklessly disregarded—Rorke
did not have anywhere near sufficient liquid assets to make good on his Personal Guarantee of the
Notes. Nonetheless, Respondents, along with Middlebury and Osborn, distributed and touted
Rorke’s Personal Guarantee and Personal Financial Statement to investors as a key reason to invest
in the Notes.
6.
Respondents also knowingly or recklessly made false and misleading statements
about Navagate’s federal tax liabilities, understating the tax liability by at least $1 million and then
falsely representing to Middlebury and Osborn that they had repaid at least a portion of the tax debt
(when they knew they had not).
7.
Ultimately, Navagate defaulted on the Notes and Rorke did not make good on his
promise under the Personal Guarantee.
Respondents
8.
Navagate is a Delaware limited liability company with its principal place of
business in New York. Navagate’s business is purportedly to create and sell computer software
that provides sales force automation to financial services organizations.
9.
Navagate.

Rorke, age 59, is a resident of New York, and is the co-founder and CEO of
Other Relevant Entity and Individuals

10.
Middlebury is a broker-dealer organized as a Delaware limited liability company
with offices in Vermont, New Jersey, and New York. Middlebury was the placement agent for
the Notes Offering from approximately December 2009 to April 2011.
11.
Osborn, age 50, is a resident of New Jersey, and was primarily responsible for
Middlebury’s relationship with Navagate. At all relevant times, Osborn was a Managing Partner at
Middlebury.
Background
12.
Rorke is an experienced businessman. From at least 1989, Rorke specialized in
turning around companies facing financial difficulties and building new businesses.
13.
From 1997 through 2012, Rorke was also an adjunct professor at Columbia
Business School, teaching turnaround management, bankruptcy, and restructuring in the MBA
program.
14.
In 2000, Rorke formed a Delaware limited liability company named G2X, which
purportedly developed software to automate certain sales and customer-relationship processes. In
2006, G2X changed its name to Navagate.

3

15.
Navagate developed its software into a program known as Agility Source Platform,
which purports to provide customer relations management and sales force automation software.
16.
In approximately October of 2009, Respondents hired Middlebury and Osborn to
act as placement agents to assist Navagate in selling its securities.
17.
Around October 2009, Respondents decided to raise capital by selling the Notes.
The Notes had a six-month maturity and bore interest at an annual rate of 12%, increasing to 15%
(and eventually 20%) in the event of default. Respondents intended for the Notes to serve as a
bridge to an eventual public offering of Navagate equity securities. They originally planned to sell
between $2 and $2.5 million in Notes. That amount was increased to $3.25 million in or about
March 2011.
The Personal Guarantee
18.
In offering the Notes, Respondents, Middlebury, and Osborn, prepared and
disseminated the Offering Documents.
19.
The Offering Documents stated that the Notes were backed by Rorke’s Personal
Guarantee. The first drafts of the Offering Documents, prepared around November 2009,
contained a general personal guarantee. In approximately December 2009, a potential investor
asked that—in addition to Rorke’s general personal guarantee—Rorke’s wife execute a personal
guarantee to back the Notes. Rorke refused to request that his wife sign any guarantee.
Eventually, the potential investor agreed to participate in the Notes Offering based on a Personal
Guarantee signed only by Rorke, “provided that [Rorke] provide[d] some evidence of not being
‘judgment proof’ ie [sic] a personal financial statement.” Rorke agreed to provide the Personal
Guarantee and a more detailed Personal Financial Statement.
20.
In or around April 21, 2010, Middlebury’s attorneys inserted the Personal
Guarantee into the Offering Documents and Rorke signed the Personal Financial Statement. The
Personal Guarantee represented to investors that Rorke had the “full power and capacity to execute
and deliver” the Personal Guarantee and to incur and perform the obligations therein contemplated.
Similarly, the signature block of the Personal Financial Statement contained a specific
representation that Rorke:
[H]ad no liabilities, direct or contingent, business or
accommodation, except as set forth in this statement, and that the
title to all assets therein set forth is in [Rorke’s] name solely, except
as may be otherwise noted.
21.
The Personal Financial Statement stated that Rorke solely owned the following
assets: (a) $200,000 in cash on hand; (b) $800,000 in cash in banks; (c) $5,000,000 in readily
marketable securities in a brokerage account; (d) $1,400,000 in real estate (his primary residence);
(e) $4,000,000 in shares of Navagate; and (f) $1,000,000 in illiquid investments in two other,
unrelated companies. Rorke also represented in the Personal Guarantee that he had zero liabilities.

4

22.
Rorke filled out and executed the Personal Financial Statement on or around April
21, 2010, and forwarded the document to Osborn and others at Middlebury for inclusion in the
Offering Documents.
23.
The Personal Financial Statement contained a number of false and misleading
statements concerning Rorke’s assets and liabilities:
a.

First, virtually none of the liquid assets Rorke pledged as his own were
actually in his name. Of the $6,000,000 Rorke claimed to have in cash and
readily marketable securities, only $1,527 was held by him alone. His wife
solely held $4,355,502 of the assets, and they jointly held an additional
$33,635. Rorke also did not own the listed $1,400,000 in real estate, having
transferred his primary residence to his wife in October 2008. Rorke had no
legal authority to pledge his wife’s assets, and his wife never agreed to such
a pledge.

b.

Second, Rorke substantially inflated the value of the assets he was
purporting to pledge. Although the Personal Financial Statement stated that
Rorke’s liquid assets totaled $6 million, in reality, the value of these assets
was approximately $4,391,000 (an overstatement of more than 36%).

c.

Third, in his Personal Financial Statement, Rorke claimed that he had zero
liabilities when, in fact, he was personally liable for at least $1 million in
taxes owed to the IRS.

24.
In order to further convince prospective investors that the Personal Guarantee
provided meaningful protection in the case of a default on the Notes, Rorke also represented that
he would not:
[S]ell, assign or transfer any of the Guarantor’s rights in the Pledged
Assets, or . . . create any other security interest in, mortgage or
otherwise encumber the Pledged Assets . . . .
25.
This statement was misleading because Rorke did not hold title to most of the listed
assets, and did not, therefore, have the ability to keep his wife from transferring or otherwise
encumbering them.
26.

In the Personal Guarantee, Rorke further agreed that he would:
[P]romptly obtain a mortgage on [his] primary residence located in
Bronxville, NY . . . in the event that [the Notes were in default and]
the Pledged Assets . . . [we]re not sufficient to satisfy all outstanding
Indebtedness.

27.
This statement was also misleading as Rorke could not mortgage the property
because he had transferred title to his wife in October 2008.
5

28.
Respondents repeatedly touted the Personal Guarantee and the Personal Financial
Statement as a selling point during the Notes Offering. For example, Rorke cited the guarantee as
a reason to invest in the Notes to at least three investors.
29.
In addition to the above, Respondents further knew or recklessly disregarded that
the Personal Guarantee and Personal Financial Statement were materially false and misleading, for
a number of reasons, including:
30.
First, Rorke had been explicitly asked for evidence that he was not judgment proof
as a condition for a potential investor foregoing its request for a personal guarantee from Rorke’s
wife. In addition, Rorke has held himself out as an experienced businessman and has been a
professor at Columbia business school teaching bankruptcy-related classes. Thus, Rorke fully
understood at the time of the Notes Offering that investors wanted to know which assets he solely
owned and, therefore, what protection existed against the danger of Navagate defaulting on its
Notes.
31.
Second, when pressed in July 2012 for documents to back up his assets, Rorke
provided Osborn with a copy of one of his wife’s account statements that he had altered by
deleting the line showing that the account was in her name.
32.
Third, Rorke had signed the document in October 2008 that had transferred his
primary residence from joint ownership with his wife to sole ownership by his wife.
33.
Fourth, Rorke never informed his wife that he was pledging her assets to support
the Notes, and his wife never gave him authority to do so.
Misrepresentations with Respect to Navagate’s Payroll Tax Liabilities
34.

The Offering Documents also materially misrepresented Navagate’s tax liabilities.

35.
The early versions of the Offering Documents, given to investors who purchased
the Notes between December 2009 and April 2010, stated that Navagate was current in its federal
tax filing and tax payment obligations.
36.
However, starting in mid-2008 and continuing through the end of 2009, Navagate
had failed to stay current on the employer’s share of Social Security and Medicare taxes (also
known as payroll or trust fund taxes) to the IRS.
37.
From mid-2008 and continuing through the end of 2009, Rorke was one of the
Navagate officers responsible for remitting federal payroll taxes to the IRS. Rorke thus knew, or
recklessly disregarded, that Navagate was not current on its federal payroll tax obligations.
Moreover, because he was responsible for remitting these payments to the IRS, Rorke was
personally liable for the unpaid payroll taxes, as Rorke knew or recklessly disregarded.

6

38.
As a result of Navagate’s failure to stay current on its payroll taxes, by late 2009 the
IRS had filed tax liens against Navagate totaling approximately $1.7 million, accounting for
principal, interest, and penalties.
39.
Accordingly, the Offering Documents’ statement that Navagate was current in its
federal tax filing and tax payment obligations was false.
40.
In January 2010, Middlebury and its lawyers uncovered approximately $543,000 of
the total then-outstanding tax liens. Middlebury’s lawyers asked Rorke about these liabilities, but
Respondents failed to disclose to Middlebury and its lawyers that the existing tax liens were, at that
time, greater than $543,000. In addition, Respondents represented to Middlebury and its lawyers
that the tax liens would be extinguished within the next two weeks.
41.

Respondents, however, did not pay down even the tax liens totaling $543,000.

42.
Moreover, as noted, the tax liens were in fact significantly higher than $543,000.
On April 29, 2010, Middlebury’s lawyers conducted a follow-up tax lien search that revealed that
(a) the $543,000 liens remained unsatisfied; (b) the IRS had filed other liens against Respondents
in 2009, totaling approximately $1,165,000; and (c) the IRS filed an additional lien against
Respondents in April of 2010 for approximately $133,000.
43.
Thus, by April 2010, the tax liens against Respondents totaled approximately $1.8
million, contrary to the Offering Documents’ statements that Navagate was current on its taxes,
and to the Personal Financial Statement’s disclosure that Rorke had no liabilities.
44.
When confronted with these liens, Rorke agreed to amend the Offering Documents
to state that Navagate owed approximately $790,000 in payroll taxes to the IRS and that Rorke
would pay $350,000 to decrease this liability. Most investors who purchased Notes between
September 2010 and April 2011 were given this updated disclosure. However, even this amended
disclosure was materially false and misleading because the total amount of liens amounted to
approximately $1.8 million and because Rorke never paid the $350,000 to decrease the tax liability
(as discussed below).
45.
As Rorke knew or recklessly disregarded, at least some investors requested that
their funds be held in escrow until Rorke personally paid the $350,000 to the IRS.
46.
When Rorke was asked by Middlebury’s attorneys about his payment of the
$350,000 to the IRS, Rorke responded by representing that he had sent a check directly to the IRS,
and asking for a release of $100,000 of investor money in escrow. Middlebury’s attorneys asked
Rorke for proof that Rorke had paid the $350,000. To satisfy Middlebury and its attorneys, Rorke
completed a notarized affidavit stating that he had sent the check to the IRS and attached a copy of
the purported check. Based on Rorke’s affidavit, Middlebury authorized releasing the investor
funds from the escrow account to Navagate.

7

47.
However, Rorke never actually paid the IRS the $350,000, and his affidavit was,
therefore, false and misleading.
Navagate Defaults on the Notes
48.
Starting in June 2010, Navagate began defaulting on the Notes. Despite these
defaults, Respondents, continued selling the Notes, but failed to tell any new investors about the
defaults. Indeed, following the first defaults, Navagate raised another approximately $2.2 million
from sales of the Notes.
49.
Despite the defaults, Rorke did not fulfil his obligations under the Personal
Guarantee and Personal Financial Statement to repay investors.
50.
As of early 2014, Navagate owed over $1.25 million in principal and approximately
$1.4 million in interest on the Notes.
51.
Respondent Rorke has pleaded guilty to criminal conduct relating to the findings in
Part IV of this Order. Specifically, in United States v. Rorke, 15 Cr. 11 (KPF) (S.D.N.Y.),
Respondent Rorke pleaded guilty to violations of 15 U.S.C. §§ 78j(b) and 78ff, and 17 C.F.R. §
240.10b-5 thereunder, and 18 U.S.C. § 1343.
Violations
52.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully violated Section
17(a) of the Securities Act, which makes it unlawful for any person in the offer or sale of any
securities, directly or indirectly, to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud, or to obtain
money or property by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission to state a
material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of circumstances under
which they were made, not misleading, or to engage in any transaction, practice, or course of
business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser.
53.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully violated Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which make it unlawful for any person,
directly or indirectly, to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud, to make any untrue
statement of a material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, or
to engage in any act, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or
deceit upon any person, in connection with the purchase or sale of any security.
54.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent Rorke caused Navagate’s
violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule
10b-5 thereunder.

8

V.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondents’ Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange Act,
Respondents Navagate and Rorke cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and
any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
B.
Pursuant to Section 8A(f) of the Securities Act and Section 21C(f) of the Exchange
Act, Respondent Rorke be, and hereby is, permanently prohibited from acting as an officer or
director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange
Act, or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

9

