Corrected to Conform to Federal Register Version of Release

Disclosure Update and Simplification
Demonstration Version
This document provides a demonstration version, with the proposed amendments
discussed in this release, with added text underlined and deleted text struck out. Commission
disclosure requirements for which we solicit comment on whether to retain, modify, eliminate, or
refer them to the FASB for potential incorporation into U.S. GAAP, as discussed in Section
III.E, are in bracketed red font. This document is being provided as a reference to assist in
understanding the changes being proposed; however, it does not include the official regulatory
text of the proposed changes, which may be found in Section XI of this release.
PART 210 – FORM AND CONTENT OF AND REQUIREMENTS FOR FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940, INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
AND ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975
§ 210.1-02 Definitions of Terms used in Regulation S-X.
(17 CFR part 210)
(d) Audit (or examination). The term audit (or examination), when used in regard to financial
statements of issuers as defined by section 2(a)(7) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, means an
examination of the financial statements by an independent accountant in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)
(“PCAOB”)generally accepted auditing standards, as may be modified or supplemented by the
Commission, for the purpose of expressing an opinion thereon. When used in regard to financial

A-1

statements of entities that are not issuers as defined by section 2(a)(7) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act
of 2002, the term means an examination of the financial statements by an independent
accountant in accordance with either the standards of the PCAOB or U.S. generally accepted
auditing standards (“U.S. GAAS”) as specified or permitted in the regulations and forms
applicable to those entities for the purpose of expressing an opinion thereon. The standards of
the PCAOB and U.S. GAAS may be modified or supplemented by the Commission.
See discussion in Section V.B.1 of this release.
***
(w) Significant subsidiary. The term significant subsidiary means a subsidiary, including its
subsidiaries, which meets any of the following conditions:
***
(3) The registrant's and its other subsidiaries' equity in the income from continuing operations
before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle of the subsidiary exclusive of amounts attributable to any noncontrolling interests
exceeds 10 percent of such income of the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated for the most
recently completed fiscal year.
***
(bb) Summarized financial information. (1) Except as provided in paragraph (aa)(2), summarized
financial information referred to in this regulation shall mean the presentation of summarized
information as to the assets, liabilities and results of operations of the entity for which the
information is required. Summarized financial information shall include the following
disclosures:
***

A-2

(ii) Net sales or gross revenues, gross profit (or, alternatively, costs and expenses applicable to
net sales or gross revenues), income or loss from continuing operations before extraordinary
items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net income or loss, and net
income or loss attributable to the entity (for specialized industries, other information may be
substituted for sales and related costs and expenses if necessary for a more meaningful
presentation); and
See discussion in Sections V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
***
(cc) Statement(s) of comprehensive income. The term statement(s) of comprehensive income
means a financial statement that includes all changes in equity during a period except those
resulting from investments by owners and distributions to owners. Comprehensive income
comprises all components of net income and all components of other comprehensive income.
The statement of comprehensive income may be presented either in a single continuous financial
statement or in two separate but consecutive financial statements. A statement(s) of operations or
variations thereof may be used in place of a statement(s) of comprehensive income if there was
no other comprehensive income during the period(s).
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
(dd) Restricted net assets. The term restricted net assets shall mean that amount of the
registrant's proportionate share of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries (after intercompany
eliminations) which as of the end of the most recent fiscal year may not be transferred to the
parent company by subsidiaries in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends without the
consent of a third party (i.e., lender, regulatory agency, foreign government, etc.). Not all
limitations on transferability of assets are considered to be restrictions for purposes of this

A-3

paragraph, which considers only specific third party restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to
transfer funds outside of the entity. For example, the presence of subsidiary debt which is
secured by certain of the subsidiary's assets does not constitute a restriction under this paragraph.
However, if there are any loan provisions prohibiting dividend payments, loans or advances to
the parent by a subsidiary, these are considered restrictions for purposes of computing restricted
net assets. When a loan agreement requires that a subsidiary maintain certain working capital, net
tangible asset, or net asset levels, or where formal compensating arrangements exist, there is
considered to be a restriction under this paragraph because the lender's intent is normally to
preclude the transfer by dividend or otherwise of funds to the parent company. Similarly, a
provision which requires that a subsidiary reinvest all of its earnings is a restriction, since this
precludes loans, advances or dividends in the amount of such undistributed earnings by the
entity. Where restrictions on the amount of funds which may be loaned or advanced differ from
the amount restricted as to transfer in the form of cash dividends, the amount least restrictive to
the subsidiary shall be used. Redeemable preferred stocks (§ 210.5-02, paragraph 27) and
noncontrolling interests shall be deducted in computing net assets for purposes of this test.
See discussion in Section III.D.2.a of this release.
§ 210.2-01 Qualifications of accountants.
***
(f) Definitions of terms. For purposes of this section:
***
(7)
(ii) Audit partner means a partner or persons in an equivalent position, other than a partner who
consults with others on the audit engagement team during the audit, review, or attestation

A-4

engagement regarding technical or industry-specific issues, transactions, or events, who is a
member of the audit engagement team who has responsibility for decision-making on significant
auditing, accounting, and reporting matters that affect the financial statements, or who maintains
regular contact with management and the audit committee and includes the following:
***
(B) The partner conducting a quality review under applicable professional standards and any
applicable rules of the Commission to evaluate the significant judgments and the related
conclusions reached in forming the overall conclusion on the audit or review engagement.
(“engagement quality reviewer” or “engagement quality control reviewer”) performing a second
level of review to provide additional assurance that the financial statements subject to the audit
or review are in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and the audit or
review and any associated report are in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards
and rules promulgated by the Commission or the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(the "concurring or reviewing partner");
See discussion in Section V.B.1 of this release.
§ 210.2-02 Accountants’ reports and attestation reports.
***
(b) Representations as to the audit included in accountants' reports. The accountant's report
(1) Shall state the applicable professional standards under which the audit was conducted
whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards; and
(2) Shall designate any auditing procedures deemed necessary by the accountant under the
circumstances of the particular case, which have been omitted, and the reasons for their
omission. Nothing in this rule shall be construed to imply authority for the omission of any

A-5

procedure which independent accountants would ordinarily employ in the course of an audit
made for the purpose of expressing the opinions required by paragraph (c) of this section.
See discussion in Section V.B.1 of this release.
§ 210.3-01 Consolidated balance sheets.
***
(c) The instruction in paragraph (b) of this section is also applicable to filings, other than on
Form 10-K or Form 10, made after 45 days but within the number of days of the end of the
registrant's fiscal year specified in paragraph (i) of this section: Provided, that the following
conditions are met:
***
(2) For the most recent fiscal year for which audited financial statements are not yet available the
registrant reasonably and in good faith expects to report income attributable to the registrant,
after taxes but before extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle; and
(3) For at least one of the two fiscal years immediately preceding the most recent fiscal year the
registrant reported income attributable to the registrant, after taxes but before extraordinary items
and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.
See discussion in Sections V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
§ 210.3-02 Consolidated statements of comprehensive income and cash flowschanges in
financial positions.
(a) There shall be filed, for the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated and for its
predecessors, audited statements of comprehensive income and cash flows for each of the three

A-6

fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent audited balance sheet being filed or such
shorter period as the registrant (including predecessors) has been in existence.
(b) In addition, for any interim period between the latest audited balance sheet and the date of the
most recent interim balance sheet being filed, and for the corresponding period of the preceding
fiscal year, statements of comprehensive income and cash flows shall be provided. Such interim
financial statements may be unaudited and need not be presented in greater detail than is required
by § 210.10-01.
(c) For filings by registered management investment companies, the requirements of § 210.3-18
shall apply in lieu of the requirements of this section.
(d) Any foreign private issuer, other than a registered management investment company or an
employee plan, may file the financial statements required by Item 8.A of Form 20-F (§ 249.220
of this chapter) in lieu of the financial statements specified in this rule.
See discussion in Sections V.B.2 and V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.3-03 Instructions to statement of comprehensive income statement requirements.
***
(b) If the registrant is engaged primarily (1) in In the generation, transmission or distribution of
electricity, the manufacture, mixing, transmission or distribution of gas, the supplying or
distribution of water, or the furnishing of telephone or telegraph service; or (2) in In holding
securities of companies engaged in such businesses, it may at its option include statements of
comprehensive income and cash flows (which may be unaudited) for the twelve-month period
ending on the date of the most recent balance sheet being filed, in lieu of the statements of
comprehensive income and cash flows for the interim periods specified.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.

A-7

***
(d) Any unaudited interim financial statements furnished shall reflect all adjustments which are,
in the opinion of management, necessary to a fair statement of the results for the interim periods
presented. A statement to that effect shall be included. Such adjustments shall include, for
example, appropriate estimated provisions for bonus and profit sharing arrangements normally
determined or settled at year-end. If all such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature, a
statement to that effect shall be made; otherwise, there shall be furnished information describing
in appropriate detail the nature and amount of any adjustments other than normal recurring
adjustments entering into the determination of the results shown.
See discussion in Section II.B.12 of this release.
(e) Disclosures regarding segments required by generally accepted accounting principles shall be
provided for each year for which an audited statement of comprehensive income (or statement of
net income if comprehensive income is presented in two separate but consecutive financial
statements or if no other comprehensive income) is provided. To the extent that the segment
information presented pursuant to this instruction complies with the provisions of Item 101 of
Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.101), the disclosures may be combined by cross referencing to or
from the financial statements.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.3-04 Changes in stockholders' equity and noncontrolling interests.
An analysis of the changes in each caption of stockholders' equity and noncontrolling interests
presented in the balance sheets shall be given in a note or separate statement. This analysis shall
be presented in the form of a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance for
each period for which an statement of comprehensive income statement is required to be filed

A-8

with all significant reconciling items described by appropriate captions with contributions from
and distribution to owners shown separately. Also, state-separately the adjustments to the
balance at the beginning of the earliest period presented for items which were retroactively
applied to periods prior to that period. With respect to any dividends, state the amount per share
and in the aggregate for each class of shares. Provide a separate schedule in the notes to the
financial statements that shows the effects of any changes in the registrant's ownership interest in
a subsidiary on the equity attributable to the registrant.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.3-05 Financial statements of businesses acquired or to be acquired.
***
(b) Periods to be presented.
***
(4) Financial statements required for the periods specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section may
be omitted to the extent specified as follows:
***
(iii) Separate financial statements of the acquired business need not be presented once the
operating results of the acquired business have been reflected in the audited consolidated
financial statements of the registrant for a complete fiscal year unless such financial statements
have not been previously filed or unless the acquired business is of such significance to the
registrant that omission of such financial statements would materially impair an investor's ability
to understand the historical financial results of the registrant. For example, if, at the date of
acquisition, the acquired business met at least one of the conditions in the definition of
significant subsidiary in § 210.1-02 at the 80 percent level, the statements of comprehensive

A-9

income statements of the acquired business should normally continue to be furnished for such
periods prior to the purchase as may be necessary when added to the time for which audited
statements of comprehensive income statements after the purchase are filed to cover the
equivalent of the period specified in § 210.3-02.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.3-12 Age of financial statements at effective date of registration statement or at
mailing date of proxy statement.
(a) If the financial statements in a filing are as of a date the number of days specified in
paragraph (g) of this section or more before the date the filing is expected to become
effective, or proposed mailing date in the case of a proxy statement, the financial statements
shall be updated, except as specified in the following paragraphs, with a balance sheet as of
an interim date within the number of days specified in paragraph (g) of this section and with
statements of comprehensive income and cash flows for the interim period between the end
of the most recent fiscal year and the date of the interim balance sheet provided and for the
corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year. Such interim financial statements may be
unaudited and need not be presented in greater detail than is required by § 210.10-01.
Notwithstanding the above requirements, the most recent interim financial statements shall
be at least as current as the most recent financial statements filed with the Commission on
Form 10-Q.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.3-14 Special instructions for real estate operations to be acquired.
(a) If, during the period for which statements of comprehensive income statements are required,
the registrant has acquired one or more properties which in the aggregate are significant, or since

A-10

the date of the latest balance sheet required has acquired or proposes to acquire one or more
properties which in the aggregate are significant, the following shall be furnished with respect to
such properties:
***
Note to paragraph (a)(1):.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.3-15 Special provisions as to real estate investment trusts.
(a)(1) The income statement prepared pursuant to §210.5-03 shall include the following
additional captions between those required by §210.5-03.15 and 16: (i) Income or loss before
gain or loss on sale of properties, extraordinary items and cumulative effects of accounting
changes, and (ii) gain or loss on sale of properties, less applicable income tax.
(2) The balance sheet required by §210.5-02 shall set forth in lieu of the captions required by
§210.5-02.31(a)(3): (i) The balance of undistributed income from other than gain or loss on sale
of properties and (ii) accumulated undistributed net realized gain or loss on sale of properties.
The information specified in §210.3-04 shall be modified similarly. [Reserved]
See discussion in Sections III.C.1.a, V.B.3, V.B.13, and V.B.14 of this release.
(b) The trust's status as a real estate investment trust under applicable provisions of the Internal
Revenue Code as amended shall be stated in a note referred to in the appropriate statements.
Such note shall also indicate briefly the principal present assumptions on which the trust has
relied in making or not making provisions for Federal income taxes. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.1.b of this release.
[(c) The tax status of distributions per unit shall be stated (e.g., ordinary income, capital gain,
return of capital).]

A-11

See discussion in Section III.E.1 of this release.
§ 210.3-17 Financial statements of natural persons.
(a) In lieu of the financial statements otherwise required, a natural person may file an unaudited
balance sheet as of a date within 90 days of date of filing and unaudited statements of
comprehensive income for each of the three most recent fiscal years.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.3-20 Currency for financial statements of foreign private issuers.
(a)(1) A foreign private issuer, as defined in § 230.405 of this chapter, shall state amounts in its
primary financial statements in the currency which it deems appropriate.
(2) An issuer that is not a foreign private issuer shall present its financial statements in U.S.
dollars.
(b)(1) The currency in which amounts in the financial statements are stated shall be disclosed
prominently on the face of the financial statements. If dividends on publicly-held equity
securities will be declared in a currency other than the reporting currency, a note to the financial
statements shall identify that currency. If there are material exchange restrictions or controls
relating to the issuer's reporting currency, the currency of the issuer's domicile, or the currency in
which the issuer will pay dividends, prominent disclosure of this fact shall be made in the
financial statements. If the reporting currency is not the U.S. dollar, dollar-equivalent financial
statements or convenience translations shall not be presented, except a translation may be
presented of the most recent fiscal year and any subsequent interim period presented using the
exchange rate as of the most recent balance sheet included in the filing, except that a rate as of
the most recent practicable date shall be used if materially different.

A-12

(2) If there are material exchange restrictions or controls relating to the currency of a
subsidiary’s domicile, the currency held by a subsidiary, or the currency in which a subsidiary
will pay dividends or transfer funds to the issuer or other subsidiaries, prominent disclosure of
this fact shall be made in the financial statements.
See discussion in Section III.D.1 of this release.
***
(d) Notwithstanding the currency selected for reporting purposes, the issuer shall measure
separately its own transactions, and those of each of its material operations (e.g., branches,
divisions, subsidiaries, joint ventures, and similar entities) that is included in the issuer's
consolidated financial statements and not located in a hyperinflationary environment, using the
particular currency of the primary economic environment in which the issuer or the operation
conducts its business. Assets and liabilities so determined shall be translated into the reporting
currency at the exchange rate at the balance sheet date; all revenues, expenses, gains, and losses
shall be translated at the exchange rate existing at the time of the transaction or, if appropriate, a
weighted average of the exchange rates during the period; and all translation effects of exchange
rate changes shall be included as a separate component (“cumulative translation adjustment”) of
shareholder's equity. For purposes of this paragraph, the currency of an operation's primary
economic environment is normally the currency in which cash is primarily generated and
expended; a hyperinflationary environment is one that has cumulative inflation of approximately
100% or more over the most recent three year period. Departures from the methodology
presented in this paragraph shall be quantified pursuant to Item 17(c)(2) of Form 20-F
(§249.220f of this chapter).
See discussion in Section II.B.1 of this release.

A-13

§ 210.3A-01 Application of §210.3A-01 to §210.3A-05.
Sections 210.3A-01 to 210.3A-05 shall govern the presentation of consolidated and combined
financial statements. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section II.B.2 of this release.
§ 210.3A-02 Consolidated financial statements of the registrant and its subsidiaries.
In deciding upon consolidation policy, the registrant must consider what financial presentation is
most meaningful in the circumstances and should follow in the consolidated financial statements
principles of inclusion or exclusion which will clearly exhibit the financial position and results of
operations of the registrant. There is a presumption that consolidated statements are more
meaningful than separate statements and that they are usually necessary for a fair presentation
when one entity directly or indirectly has a controlling financial interest in another entity. Other
particular facts and circumstances may require combined financial statements, an equity method
of accounting, or valuation allowances in order to achieve a fair presentation. In any case, the
disclosures required by §210.3A-03 should clearly explain the accounting policies followed by
the registrant in this area, including the circumstances involved in any departure from the normal
practice of consolidating majority owned subsidiaries and not consolidating entities that are less
than majority owned. Among the factors that the registrant should consider in determining the
most meaningful presentation are the following:
(a) Majority ownership: Among the factors that the registrant should consider in determining the
most meaningful presentation is majority ownership. Generally, registrants shall consolidate
entities that are majority owned and shall not consolidate entities that are not majority owned.
The determination of "majority ownership" requires a careful analysis of the facts and
circumstances of a particular relationship among entities. In rare situations, consolidation of a

A-14

majority owned subsidiary may not result in a fair presentation, because the registrant, in
substance, does not have a controlling financial interest (for example, when the subsidiary is in
legal reorganization or in bankruptcy). In other situations, consolidation of an entity,
notwithstanding the lack of technical majority ownership, is necessary to present fairly the
financial position and results of operations of the registrant, because of the existence of a parentsubsidiary relationship by means other than record ownership of voting stock.
(b) [Reserved]Different fiscal periods: Generally, registrants shall not consolidate any entity
whose financial statements are as of a date or for periods substantially different from those of the
registrant. Rather, the earnings or losses of such entities should be reflected in the registrant's
financial statements on the equity method of accounting. However:
(1) A difference in fiscal periods does not of itself justify the exclusion of an entity from
consolidation. It ordinarily is feasible for such entity to prepare, for consolidation purposes,
statements for a period which corresponds with or closely approaches the fiscal year of the
registrant. Where the difference is not more than 93 days, it is usually acceptable to use, for
consolidation purposes, such entity's statements for its fiscal period. Such difference, when it
exists, should be disclosed as follows: the closing date of the entity should be expressly
indicated, and the necessity for the use of different closing dates should be briefly explained.
Furthermore, recognition should be given by disclosure or otherwise to the effect of intervening
events which materially affect the financial position or results of operations.
(2) Notwithstanding the 93-day provision specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, in
connection with the retroactive combination of financial statements of entities following a
combination between entities under common control, the financial statements of the constituents
may be combined even if their respective fiscal periods do not end within 93 days, except that

A-15

the financial statements for the latest fiscal year shall be recast to dates which do not differ by
more than 93 days, if practicable. Disclosure shall be made of the periods combined and of the
sales or revenues, net income before extraordinary items and net income of any interim periods
excluded from or included more than once in results of operations as a result of such recasting.
See discussion in Sections II.B.2, III.C.2.a, V.B.4.a, and V.B.13 of this release.
(c) Bank Holding Company Act: Registrants shall not consolidate any subsidiary or group of
subsidiaries of a registrant subject to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 as amended as to
which (1) a decision requiring divestiture has been made, or (2) there is substantial likelihood
that divestiture will be necessary in order to comply with provisions of the Bank Holding
Company Act.
See discussion in Section V.B.4.b of this release.
(d) Foreign subsidiaries: Due consideration shall be given to the propriety of consolidating with
domestic corporations foreign subsidiaries which are operated under political, economic or
currency restrictions. If consolidated, disclosure should be made as to the effect, insofar as this
can reasonably be determined, of foreign exchange restrictions upon the consolidated financial
position and operating results of the registrant and its subsidiaries.
See discussion in Sections II.B.2 and III.D.1 of this release.
§ 210.3A-03 Statement as to principles of consolidation or combination followed.
(a) A brief description of the principles followed in consolidating or combining the separate
financial statements, including the principles followed in determining the inclusion or exclusion
of (1) subsidiaries in consolidated or combined financial statements and (2) companies in
consolidated or combined financial statements, shall be stated in the notes to the respective
financial statements. [Reserved]

A-16

See discussion in Section II.B.2 of this release.
[(b) As to each consolidated financial statement and as to each combined financial statement, if
there has been a change in the persons included or excluded in the corresponding statement for
the preceding fiscal period filed with the Commission that which has a material effect on the
financial statements, the persons included and the persons excluded shall be disclosed.] If there
have been any changes in the respective fiscal periods of the persons included made during the
periods of the report which have a material effect on the financial statements, indicate clearly
such changes and the manner of treatment.
See discussion in Sections III.C.2.b and III.E.2 of this release.
§ 210.3A-04 Intercompany items and transactions.
In general, there shall be eliminated intercompany items and transactions between persons
included in the (a) consolidated financial statements being filed and, as appropriate, (b)
unrealized intercompany profits and losses on transactions between persons for which financial
statements are being filed and persons the investment in which is presented in such statements by
the equity method. If such eliminations are not made, a statement of the reasons and the methods
of treatment shall be made.
See discussion in Sections II.B.2 and V.B.4.c of this release.
§ 210.4-01 Form, order, and terminology.
(a) Financial statements should be filed in such form and order, and should use such generally
accepted terminology, as will best indicate their significance and character in the light of the
provisions applicable thereto. The information required with respect to any statement shall be
furnished as a minimum requirement to which shall be added such further material information

A-17

as is necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which
they are made, not misleading.
***
(3)(i) Notwithstanding the effective dates set forth in FASB ASC Topic 718, Compensation—
Stock Compensation”, financial statements shall be prepared in accordance with FASB ASC
Topic 718 beginning with:
(A) The first interim or annual reporting period of the registrant's first fiscal year beginning on or
after June 15, 2005, provided the registrant does not file as a smaller reporting company; and
(B) The first interim or annual reporting period of the registrant's first fiscal year beginning on or
after December 15, 2005, provided the registrant files as a smaller reporting company.
(ii) For periods prior to the effective dates set forth in this paragraph, FASB ASC Topic 718 and
prior authoritative guidance, shall be considered to be generally accepted accounting principles.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
§ 210.4-07 Discount on shares.
[Discount on shares, or any unamortized balance thereof, shall be shown separately as a
deduction from the applicable account(s) as circumstances require.]
See discussion in Section III.E.3 of this release.
§ 210.4-08 General notes to financial statements.
If applicable to the person for which the financial statements are filed, the following shall be set
forth on the face of the appropriate statement or in appropriately captioned notes. The
information shall be provided for each statement required to be filed, except that the information
required by paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (e) and (f) shall be provided as of the most recent audited
balance sheet being filed and for paragraph (j) as specified therein. When specific statements are

A-18

presented separately, the pertinent notes shall accompany such statements unless crossreferencing is appropriate.
(a) Principles of consolidation or combination. With regard to consolidated or combined
financial statements, refer to §§210.3A-01 to 3A-08 for requirements for supplemental
information in notes to the financial statements. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section II.B.2 of this release.
[(b) Assets subject to lien. Assets mortgaged, pledged, or otherwise subject to lien, and the
approximate amounts thereof, shall be designated and the obligations collateralized briefly
identified.]
See discussion in Section III.E.4 of this release.
[(c) Defaults. The facts and amounts concerning any default in principal, interest, sinking fund,
or redemption provisions with respect to any issue of securities or credit agreements, or any
breach of covenant of a related indenture or agreement, which default or breach existed at the
date of the most recent balance sheet being filed and which has not been subsequently cured,
shall be stated in the notes to the financial statements. If a default or breach exists but
acceleration of the obligation has been waived for a stated period of time beyond the date of the
most recent balance sheet being filed, state the amount of the obligation and the period of the
waiver.]
See discussion in Sections III.E.5.a and III.E.5.b of this release.
[(d) Preferred shares. (1) Aggregate preferences on involuntary liquidation, if other than par or
stated value, shall be shown parenthetically in the equity section of the balance sheet.]

A-19

(2) Disclosure shall be made of any restriction upon retained earnings that arises from the fact
that upon involuntary liquidation the aggregate preferences of the preferred shares exceeds the
par or stated value of such shares.
See discussion in Sections III.D.2.a and III.E.6 of this release.
(e) Restrictions which limit the payment of dividends by the registrant. (1) Describe the most
significant restrictions, other than as reported under paragraph (d) of this section, on the payment
of dividends by the registrant, indicating their sources, their pertinent provisions, and the amount
of retained earnings or net income restricted or free of restrictions.
(2) Disclose the amount of consolidated retained earnings which represents undistributed
earnings of 50 percent or less owned persons accounted for by the equity method.
(3) The disclosures in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) inof this section shall be provided when
material the restricted net assets of consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries and the parent's
equity in the undistributed earnings of 50 percent or less owned persons accounted for by the
equity method together exceed 25 percent of consolidated net assets as of the end of the most
recently completed fiscal year. For purposes of this test, restricted net assets of subsidiaries shall
mean that amount of the registrant's proportionate share of net assets (after intercompany
eliminations) reflected in the balance sheets of its consolidated and unconsolidated subsidiaries
as of the end of the most recent fiscal year which may not be transferred to the parent company
in the form of loans, advances or cash dividends by the subsidiaries without the consent of a third
party (i.e., lender, regulatory agency, foreign government, etc.). Not all limitations on
transferability of assets are considered to be restrictions for purposes of this test, which considers
only specific third party restrictions on the ability of subsidiaries to transfer funds outside of the
entity. For example, the presence of subsidiary debt which is secured by certain of the

A-20

subsidiary's assets does not constitute a restriction under this rule. However, if there are any loan
provisions prohibiting dividend payments, loans or advances to the parent by a subsidiary, these
are considered restrictions for purposes of computing restricted net assets. When a loan
agreement requires that a subsidiary maintain certain working capital, net tangible asset, or net
asset levels, or where formal compensating arrangements exist, there is considered to be a
restriction under the rule because the lender's intent is normally to preclude the transfer by
dividend or otherwise of funds to the parent company. Similarly, a provision which requires that
a subsidiary reinvest all of its earnings is a restriction, since this precludes loans, advances or
dividends in the amount of such undistributed earnings by the entity. Where restrictions on the
amount of funds which may be loaned or advanced differ from the amount restricted as to
transfer in the form of cash dividends, the amount least restrictive to the subsidiary shall be used.
Redeemable preferred stocks (§210.5-02.27) and noncontrolling interests shall be deducted in
computing net assets for purposes of this test.
(i) Describe the nature of any restrictions on the ability of consolidated subsidiaries and
unconsolidated subsidiaries to transfer funds to the registrant in the form of cash dividends, loans
or advances (i.e., borrowing arrangements, regulatory restraints, foreign government, etc.)
(ii) Disclose separately the amounts of such restricted net assets for unconsolidated subsidiaries
and consolidated subsidiaries as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal year.
See discussion in Section III.D.2.a of this release.
[(f) Significant changes in bonds, mortgages and similar debt. Any significant changes in the
authorized or issued amounts of bonds, mortgages and similar debt since the date of the latest
balance sheet being filed for a particular person or group shall be stated.]
See discussion in Sections II.B.3 and III.E.5.c of this release.
***

A-21

[(h) Income tax expense. (1) Disclosure shall be made in the statement of comprehensive income
statement or a note thereto, of (i) the components of income (loss) before income tax expense
(benefit) as either domestic or foreign.;] (ii) the components of income tax expense, including
(A) taxes currently payable and (B) the net tax effects, as applicable, of timing differences
(indicate separately the amount of the estimated tax effect of each of the various types of timing
differences, such as depreciation, warranty costs, etc., where the amount of each such tax effect
exceeds five percent of the amount computed by multiplying the income before tax by the
applicable statutory Federal income tax rate; other differences may be combined.)
[Note to paragraph (h)(1):. Amounts applicable to United States Federal income taxes, to foreign
income taxes and the other income taxes shall be stated separately for each major component.
Amounts applicable to foreign income (loss) and amounts applicable to foreign or other income
taxes which are less than five percent of the total of income before taxes or the component of tax
expense, respectively, need not be separately disclosed. For purposes of this rule, foreign income
(loss) is defined as income (loss) generated from a registrant's foreign operations, i.e., operations
that are located outside of the registrant's home country.
(2) Provide a In the reconciliation between the amount of reported total income tax expense
(benefit) and the amount computed by multiplying the income (loss) before tax by the applicable
statutory Federal income tax rate, showing the estimated dollar amount of each of the underlying
causes for the difference. Iif no individual reconciling item amounts to more than five percent of
the amount computed by multiplying the income before tax by the applicable statutory Federal
income tax rate, and the total difference to be reconciled is less than five percent of such
computed amount, no reconciliation need be provided unless it would be significant in appraising
the trend of earnings. Reconciling items that are individually less than five percent of the

A-22

computed amount may be aggregated in the reconciliation. The reconciliation may be presented
in percentages rather than in dollar amounts. Where the reporting person is a foreign entity, the
income tax rate in that person's country of domicile should normally be used in making the
above computation, but different rates should not be used for subsidiaries or other segments of a
reporting entity. When the rate used by a reporting person is other than the United States Federal
corporate income tax rate, the rate used and the basis for using such rate shall be disclosed.]
(3) Paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section shall be applied in the following manner to
financial statements which reflect the adoption of FASB ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes.
(i) The disclosures required by paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section and by the parenthetical
instruction at the end of paragraph (h)(1) of this section and by the introductory sentence of
paragraph (h)(2) of this section shall not apply.
(ii) The instructional note between paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section and the balance of
the requirements of paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section shall continue to apply.
See discussion in Sections II.B.4, III.E.7, IV.B.2, and V.B.12 of this release.
(i) Warrants or rights outstanding. Information with respect to warrants or rights outstanding at
the date of the related balance sheet shall be set forth as follows:
(1) Title of issue of securities called for by warrants or rights.
(2) Aggregate amount of securities called for by warrants or rights outstanding.
(3) Date from which warrants or rights are exercisable.
(4) Price at which warrant or right is exercisable. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section II.B.5 of this release.
***
[(k) Related party transactions which that affect the financial statements.

A-23

(1) Amounts of Rrelated party transactions should be identified and the amounts stated on the
face of the balance sheet, statement of comprehensive income statement, or statement of cash
flows.]
See discussion in Sections II.B.6, III.E.8, and V.B.12 of this release.
[(2) In cases where separate financial statements are presented for the registrant, certain
investees, or subsidiaries, separate disclosure shall be made in such statements of the amounts in
the related consolidated financial statements which are (i) eliminated and (ii) not eliminated.
Also, [any intercompany profits or losses resulting from transactions with related parties and not
eliminated [and the effects thereof shall be disclosed.]
See discussion in Sections III.E.8 and V.B.4.d of this release.
***
[(m) Repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements-(1) Repurchase agreements (assets sold under agreements to repurchase).
(i) If, as of the most recent balance sheet date, the carrying amount (or market value, if higher
than the carrying amount or if there is no carrying amount) of the securities or other assets sold
under agreements to repurchase (repurchase agreements) exceeds 10% of total assets, disclose
sSeparately presentation in the balance sheet of the aggregate amount of liabilities incurred
pursuant to repurchase agreements shall includeing accrued interest payable thereon.
(ii)] (A) If, as of the most recent balance sheet date, the carrying amount (or market value, if
higher than the carrying amount) of securities or other assets sold under repurchase agreements,
other than securities or assets specified in paragraph (m)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, exceeds 10% of
total assets, disclose in an appropriately captioned footnote containing a tabular presentation,
segregated as to type of such securities or assets sold under agreements to repurchase (e.g., U.S.

A-24

Treasury obligations, U.S. Government agency obligations and loans), the following information
as of the balance sheet date for each such agreement or group of agreements (other than
agreements involving securities or assets specified in paragraph (m)(1)(ii)(B) of this section)
maturing (1) overnight; (2) term up to 30 days; (3) term of 30 to 90 days; (4) term over 90 days
and (5) demand:
(i) The carrying amount and market value of the assets sold under agreement to repurchase,
including accrued interest plus any cash or other assets on deposit under the repurchase
agreements; and
(ii) The repurchase liability associated with such transaction or group of transactions and [tThe
interest rate(s) on the repurchase liabilities shall be disclosedthereon.]
(B) For purposes of paragraph (m)(1)(ii)(A) of this section only, do not include securities or
other assets for which unrealized changes in market value are reported in current income or
which have been obtained under reverse repurchase agreements.
[(iii) If, as of the most recent balance sheet date, the amount at risk under repurchase agreements
with any individual counterparty or group of related counterparties exceeds 10% of stockholders'
equity (or in the case of investment companies, net asset value), disclose the name of each such
counterparty or group of related counterparties, the amount at risk with each, and the weighted
average maturity of the repurchase agreements with each. The amount at risk under repurchase
agreements is defined as the excess of carrying amount (or market value, if higher than the
carrying amount or if there is no carrying amount) of the securities or other assets sold under
agreement to repurchase, including accrued interest plus any cash or other assets on deposit to
secure the repurchase obligation, over the amount of the repurchase liability (adjusted for

A-25

accrued interest). (Cash deposits in connection with repurchase agreements shall not be reported
as unrestricted cash pursuant to rule 5-02.1.)
(2) Reverse repurchase agreements (assets purchased under agreements to resell).
(i) If, as of the most recent balance sheet date, the aggregate carrying amount of "reverse
repurchase agreements" (securities or other assets purchased under agreements to resell) exceeds
10% of total assets: (A) Disclose separately such amount in the balance sheet; and (B) Ddisclose
in an appropriately captioned footnote: (1) The registrant's policy with regard to taking
possession of securities or other assets purchased under agreements to resell; and (2) whether or
not there are any provisions to ensure that the market value of the underlying assets remains
sufficient to protect the registrant in the event of default by the counterparty and if so, the nature
of those provisions.
(ii) If, as of the most recent balance sheet date, the amount of risk under reverse repurchase
agreements with any individual counterparty or group of related counterparties exceeds 10% of
stockholders' equity (or in the case of investment companies, net asset value), disclose the name
of each such counterparty or group of related counterparties, the amount at risk with each, and
the weighted average maturity of the reverse repurchase agreements with each. The amount at
risk under reverse repurchase agreements is defined as the excess of the carrying amount of the
reverse repurchase agreements over the market value of assets delivered pursuant to the
agreements by the counterparty to the registrant (or to a third party agent that has affirmatively
agreed to act on behalf of the registrant) and not returned to the counterparty, except in exchange
for their approximate market value in a separate transaction.]
See discussion in Sections III.C.3 and III.E.9 of this release.

A-26

(n) Accounting policies for certain derivative instruments. Disclosures regarding accounting
policies shall include descriptions of the accounting policies used for derivative financial
instruments and derivative commodity instruments and the methods of applying those policies
that materially affect the determination of financial position, cash flows, or results of operation.
This description shall include, to the extent material, each of the following items:
(1) A discussion of each method used to account for derivative financial instruments and
derivative commodity instruments;
(2) The types of derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments
accounted for under each method;
(3) The criteria required to be met for each accounting method used, including a discussion of
the criteria required to be met for hedge or deferral accounting and accrual or settlement
accounting (e.g., whether and how risk reduction, correlation, designation, and effectiveness tests
are applied);
(4) The accounting method used if the criteria specified in paragraph (n)(3) of this section are not
met;
(5) The method used to account for terminations of derivatives designated as hedges or
derivatives used to affect directly or indirectly the terms, fair values, or cash flows of a
designated item;
(6) The method used to account for derivatives when the designated item matures, is sold, is
extinguished, or is terminated. In addition, the method used to account for derivatives designated
to an anticipated transaction, when the anticipated transaction is no longer likely to occur; and

A-27

(7) Where and when derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity instruments, and
their related gains and losses, are reported in the statements of financial position, cash flows, and
results of operations.
Instructions to paragraph (n):
1. For purposes of this paragraph (n), derivative financial instruments and derivative commodity
instruments (collectively referred to as "derivatives") are defined as follows:
(i) Derivative financial instruments have the same meaning as defined by generally accepted
accounting principles (see, e.g., FASB ASC Master Glossary), and include futures, forwards,
swaps, options, and other financial instruments with similar characteristics.
(ii) Derivative commodity instruments include, to the extent such instruments are not derivative
financial instruments, commodity futures, commodity forwards, commodity swaps, commodity
options, and other commodity instruments with similar characteristics that are permitted by
contract or business custom to be settled in cash or with another financial instrument. For
purposes of this paragraph, settlement in cash includes settlement in cash of the net change in
value of the derivative commodity instrument (e.g., net cash settlement based on changes in the
price of the underlying commodity).
2. For purposes of paragraphs (n)(2), (n)(3), (n)(4), and (n)(7), the required disclosures should
address separately derivatives entered into for trading purposes and derivatives entered into for
purposes other than trading. For purposes of this paragraph, trading purposes means dealing and
other trading activities measured at fair value with gains and losses recognized in earnings.
3. For purposes of paragraph (n)(6), anticipated transactions means transactions (other than
transactions involving existing assets or liabilities or transactions necessitated by existing firm

A-28

commitments) an enterprise expects, but is not obligated, to carry out in the normal course of
business.
4. Registrants should provide disclosures required under paragraph (n) in filings with the
Commission that include financial statements of fiscal periods ending after June 15, 1997.
See discussion in Section III.C.4 of this release.
§ 210.4-10 Financial accounting and reporting for oil and gas producing activities
pursuant to the Federal securities laws and the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of
1975.
***
(c) Application of the full cost method of accounting. A reporting entity that follows the full cost
method shall apply that method to all of its operations and to the operations of its subsidiaries, as
follows:
***
(7) Disclosures. Reporting entities that follow the full cost method of accounting shall disclose
all of the information required by paragraph (k) of this section, with each cost center considered
as a separate geographic area, except that reasonable groupings may be made of cost centers that
are not significant in the aggregate. In addition:
(i) For each cost center for each year that an statement of comprehensive income statement is
required, disclose the total amount of amortization expense (per equivalent physical unit of
production if amortization is computed on the basis of physical units or per dollar of gross
revenue from production if amortization is computed on the basis of gross revenue).
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.5-02 Balance sheets.

A-29

***
Assets and Other Debits
Current assets, when appropriate
[See §210.4-05]
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
***
6. Inventories.(a) State separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto, if practicable, the
amounts of major classes of inventory such as: (1) finished goods; (2) inventoried costs relating
to long-term contracts or programs (see paragraph (d) of this section below and §210.4-05); (3)
work in process (see §210.4-05); (4) raw materials; and (5) supplies. If the method of calculating
a LIFO inventory does not allow for the practical determination of amounts assigned to major
classes of inventory, the amounts of those classes may be stated under cost flow assumptions
other than LIFO with the excess of such total amount over the aggregate LIFO amount shown as
a deduction to arrive at the amount of the LIFO inventory.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
***
Current Liabilities, When Appropriate (See §210.4-05)
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
***
19. Accounts and notes payable. (a) State separately amounts payable to (1) banks for
borrowings; (2) factors or other financial institutions for borrowings; (3) holders of commercial
paper; (4) trade creditors; (5) related parties (see § 210.4-08(k)); (6) underwriters, promoters, and

A-30

employees (other than related parties); and (7) others. Amounts applicable to (1), (2) and (3) may
be stated separately in the balance sheet or in a note thereto.
[(b) The amount and terms (including commitment fees and the conditions under which lines
may be withdrawn) of unused lines of credit for short-term financing shall be disclosed, if
significant, in the notes to the financial statements. The weighted average interest rate on short
term borrowings outstanding as of the date of each balance sheet presented shall be furnished in
a note. The amount of these lines of credit which support a commercial paper borrowing
arrangement or similar arrangements shall be separately identified.]
See discussion in Section III.E.5.d of this release.
***
22. Bonds, mortgages and other long-term debt, including capitalized leases. (a) State separately,
in the balance sheet or in a note thereto, each issue or type of obligation and such information as
will indicate (see §210.4-06):
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
***
[(b) The amount and terms (including commitment fees and the conditions under which
commitments may be withdrawn) of unused commitments for long-term financing arrangements
that would be disclosed under this rule if used shall be disclosed in the notes to the financial
statements if significant.]
See discussion in Section III.E.5.d of this release.
***
27. Preferred stocks subject to mandatory redemption requirements or whose redemption is
outside the control of the issuer.

A-31

***
(c) State in a separate note captioned “Redeemable Preferred Stocks” (1) a general description of
each issue, including its redemption features (e.g. sinking fund, at option of holders, out of future
earnings) and the rights, if any, of holders in the event of default, including the effect, if any, on
junior securities in the event a required dividend, sinking fund, or other redemption payment(s) is
not made; (2) the combined aggregate amount of redemption requirements for all issues each
year for the five years following the date of the latest balance sheet; and (3) the changes in each
issue for each period for which an a statement of comprehensive income statement is required to
be filed. (See also § 210.4-08(d).)
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
28. Preferred stocks which are not redeemable or are redeemable solely at the option of the
issuer. State on the face of the balance sheet, or if more than one issue is outstanding state in a
note, the title of each issue and the dollar amount thereof. Show also the dollar amount of any
shares subscribed but unissued, and show the deduction of subscriptions receivable therefrom.
State on the face of the balance sheet or in a note, for each issue, the number of shares authorized
and the number of shares issued or outstanding, as appropriate (see § 210.4-07). Show in a note
or separate statement the changes in each class of preferred shares reported under this caption for
each period for which an statement of comprehensive income statement is required to be filed.
(See also § 210.4-08(d).)
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
29. Common stocks. For each class of common shares state, on the face of the balance sheet, the
number of shares issued or outstanding, as appropriate (see § 210.4-07), and the dollar amount
thereof. If convertible, this fact should be indicated on the face of the balance sheet. For each

A-32

class of common shares state, on the face of the balance sheet or in a note, the title of the issue,
the number of shares authorized, and, if convertible, the basis of conversion (see also § 210.408(d)). Show also the dollar amount of any common shares subscribed but unissued, and show
the deduction of subscriptions receivable therefrom. Show in a note or statement the changes in
each class of common shares for each period for which an statement of comprehensive income
statement is required to be filed.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
30. Other stockholders' equity.
(a) Separate captions shall be shown for
(1) aAdditional paid-in capital,
(2) oOther additional capital, and
(3) rRetained earnings
(i) aAppropriated and
(ii) uUnappropriated. (See § 210.4-08(e).), and
(4) Accumulated other comprehensive income.
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH 30.(a). Additional paid-in capital and other additional capital may be
combined with the stock caption to which it applies, if appropriate.
See discussion in V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.5-03 Statements of comprehensive income statements.
(a) The purpose of this section rule is to indicate the various line items which, if applicable, and
except as otherwise permitted by the Commission, should appear on the face of the statements of
comprehensive income statements filed for the persons to whom this article pertains (see §
210.4-01(a)).

A-33

See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
(b) If income is derived from more than one of the subcaptions described under § 210.5-03.1,
each class which is not more than 10 percent of the sum of the items may be combined with
another class. If these items are combined, related costs and expenses as described under §
210.5-03.2 shall be combined in the same manner.
***
7. Non-operating income.
State separately in the statement of comprehensive income statement or in a note thereto amounts
earned from (a) dividends, (b) interest on securities, (c) profits on securities (net of losses), and
(d) miscellaneous other income. Amounts earned from transactions in securities of related parties
shall be disclosed as required under § 210.4-08(k). Material amounts included under
miscellaneous other income shall be separately stated in the statement of comprehensive income
statement or in a note thereto, indicating clearly the nature of the transactions out of which the
items arose.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
9. Non-operating expenses.
State separately in the statement of comprehensive income statement or in a note thereto amounts
of (a) losses on securities (net of profits) and (b) miscellaneous income deductions. Material
amounts included under miscellaneous income deductions shall be separately stated in the
statement of comprehensive income statement or in a note thereto, indicating clearly the nature
of the transactions out of which the items arose.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.

A-34

***
15. Income or loss before extraordinary items and cumulative effects of changes in accounting
principles. [Reserved]
See discussion in Sections V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
16. Extraordinary items, less applicable tax. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section V.B.13 of this release.
17. Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section V.B.14 of this release.
***
20. Net income attributable to the controlling interest.
21. Other comprehensive income.
State separately the components of and the total for other comprehensive income. Present the
components either net of related tax effects or before related tax effects with one amount shown
for the aggregate income tax expense or benefit. State the amount of income tax expense or
benefit allocated to each component, including reclassification adjustments, in the statement of
comprehensive income or in a note.
22. Comprehensive income.
23. Comprehensive income attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
24. Comprehensive income attributable to the controlling interest.
2125. Earnings per share data.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.5-04 What schedules are to be filed.
(a) Except as expressly provided otherwise in the applicable form:

A-35

***
(2) Schedule II of this section shall be filed for each period for which an audited statement of
comprehensive income statement is required to be filed for each person or group.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
Schedule I—Condensed financial information of registrant. The schedule prescribed by §
210.12-04 shall be filed when the restricted net assets (§ 210.1-02(dd)4-08(e)(3)) of consolidated
subsidiaries exceed 25 percent of consolidated net assets as of the end of the most recently
completed fiscal year. For purposes of the above test, restricted net assets of consolidated
subsidiaries shall mean that amount of the registrant's proportionate share of net assets of
consolidated subsidiaries (after intercompany eliminations) which as of the end of the most
recent fiscal year may not be transferred to the parent company by subsidiaries in the form of
loans, advances or cash dividends without the consent of a third party (i.e., lender, regulatory
agency, foreign government, etc.). Where restrictions on the amount of funds which may be
loaned or advanced differ from the amount restricted as to transfer in the form of cash dividends,
the amount least restrictive to the subsidiary shall be used. Redeemable preferred stocks (§210.502.27) and noncontrolling interests shall be deducted in computing net assets for purposes of this
test.
See discussion in Section III.D.2.a of this release.
§ 210.6-03 Special rules of general application to registered investment companies.
***
(c) Consolidated and combined statements.

A-36

(1) Consolidated and combined statements filed for registered investment companies shall be
prepared in accordance with §§ 210.3A-021 to and 210.3A-053 (Article 3A), except that (i)
statements of the registrant may be consolidated only with the statements of subsidiaries which
are investment companies; (ii) a consolidated statement of the registrant and any of its
investment company subsidiaries shall not be filed unless accompanied by a consolidating
statement which sets forth the individual statements of each significant subsidiary included in the
consolidated statement: Provided, however, That a consolidating statement need not be filed if
all included subsidiaries are totally held; and (iii) consolidated or combined statements filed for
subsidiaries not consolidated with the registrant shall not include any investment companies
unless accompanied by consolidating or combining statements which set forth the individual
statements of each included investment company which is a significant subsidiary.
See discussion in Sections II.B.2 and V.B.4 of this release.
§ 210.6-04 Balance sheets.
***
13. Notes payable, bonds and similar debt.
***
[(b) Provide in a note the information required under § 210.5-02.19(b) regarding unused lines of
credit for short-term financing and § 210.5-02.22(b) regarding unused commitments for longterm financing arrangements.]
See discussion in Section III.E.5.d of this release.
***
17. Accumulated undistributed income (loss). Total distributable earnings (loss).
Disclose total distributable earnings (loss), which generally comprise:

A-37

(a) The aAccumulated undistributed investment income-net,;
(b) aAccumulated undistributed net realized gains (losses) on investment transactions, and
(c) nNet unrealized appreciation (depreciation) in value of investments at the balance sheet date.
See discussion in Section III.C.5 of this release.
§ 210.6-07 Statements of operations.
Statements of operations, or statements of comprehensive income, where applicable, filed by
registered investment companies, other than issuers of face-amount certificates subject to the
special provisions of § 210.6-08 of this part, shall comply with the following provisions:
***
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.6-09 Statements of changes in net assets.
***
7. Net assets at the end of the period. Disclose parenthetically the balance of undistributed net
investment income included in net assets at the end of the period.
See discussion in Section III.C.5 of this release.
§ 210.6A-04 Statements of comprehensive income and changes in plan equity.
Statements of comprehensive income and changes in plan equity filed under this rulesection shall
comply with the following provisions:
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.6A-05 What schedules are to be filed.
(a) Schedule I of this section, specified below, shall be filed as of the most recent audited
statement of financial condition and any subsequent unaudited statement of financial condition
being filed. Schedule II of this section shall be filed as of the date of each statement of financial

A-38

condition being filed. Schedule III of this section shall be filed for each period for which a
statement of comprehensive income and changes in plan equity is filed. All schedules shall be
audited if the related statements are audited.
***
Schedule III—Allocation of plan income and changes in plan equity to investment programs. If
the plan provides for separate investment programs with separate funds, and if the allocation of
income and changes in plan equity to the several funds is not shown in the statement of
comprehensive income and changes in plan equity in columnar form or by the submission of
separate statements for each fund, a schedule shall be submitted showing the allocation of each
caption of each statement of comprehensive income and changes in plan equity filed to the
applicable fund.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.7-02 General requirement.
***
(b) Financial statements filed for mutual life insurance companies and wholly-owned stock
insurance company subsidiaries of mutual life insurance companies may be prepared in
accordance with statutory accounting requirements. Financial statements prepared in accordance
with statutory accounting requirements may be condensed as appropriate, but the amounts to be
reported for net gain from operations (or net income or loss) and total capital and surplus (or
surplus as regards policyholders) shall be the same as those reported on the corresponding
Annual Statement. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section V.B.8.a of this release.
§ 210.7-03 Balance sheets.

A-39

(a) The purpose of this rule is to indicate the various items which, if applicable, and except as
otherwise permitted by the Commission, should appear on the face of the balance sheets and in
the notes thereto filed for persons to whom this article pertains. (See § 210.4-01(a).)
***
6. Reinsurance recoverable on paid losses.
See discussion in Section V.B.8.b of this release.
***
11. Separate account aAssets held in separate accounts. Include under this caption the portion of
separate account aggregate amount of assets representing contract holder funds required to be
reported in an insurance entity’s financial statements as a summary total. used to fund liabilities
related to variable annuities, pension funds and similar activities. The aggregate An equivalent
summary total for the related liability shall be included under caption 18. Describe in a note to
the financial statements the general nature of the activities being reported on in the separate
accounts.
See discussion in Sections II.B.9 and V.B.8.c of this release.
***
13. Policy liabilities and accruals.
***
(b) State in a note to the financial statements the basis of assumptions (interest rates, mortality,
withdrawals) for future policy benefits and claims and settlements which are stated at present
value. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.6.a of this release.

A-40

(c) Information shall be given in a note concerning the general nature of reinsurance transactions,
including a description of the significant types of reinsurance agreements executed. The
information provided shall include (1) the nature of the contingent liability in connection with
insurance ceded and (2) the nature and effect of material nonrecurring reinsurance transactions.
See discussion in Section III.C.6.b of this release.
***
16. Notes payable, bonds, mortgages and similar obligations, including capitalized leases.
***
[(b) The disclosure required by § 210.5-02.19(b) shall be given if the aggregate of short-term
borrowings from banks, factors and other financial institutions and commercial paper issued
exceeds five percent of total liabilities.
(c) The disclosure requirements of § 210.5-02.22 shall be followed for long-term debt. ]
See discussion in Section III.E.5.d of this release.
***
Other Stockholders' Equity
23. Other stockholders' equity. (a) Separate captions shall be shown for (1) additional paid-in
capital, (2) other additional capital, (3) accumulated other comprehensive income unrealized
appreciation or depreciation of equity securities less applicable deferred income taxes, (4)
retained earnings (i) appropriated and (ii) unappropriated. (See § 210.4-08(e).) Additional paid-in
capital and other additional capital may be combined with the stock caption to which they apply,
if appropriate.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.

A-41

(b) The classification and disclosure requirements of § 210.5-02.30(b) shall be followed for
dating and effect of a quasi-reorganization.
(c) State in a note the following information separately for (1) life insurance legal entities, and
(2) property and liability insurance legal entities: the amount of statutory stockholders' equity as
of the date of each balance sheet presented and the amount of statutory net income or loss for
each period for which an statement of comprehensive income statement is presented.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.7-04 Statements of comprehensive iIncome statements.
The purpose of this section rule is to indicate the various items which, if applicable, should
appear on the face of the income statements of comprehensive income and in the notes thereto
filed for persons to whom this article pertains. (See § 210.4-01(a).)
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
3. Realized investment gains and losses. Disclose the following amounts:
***
(b) Indicate in a footnote the registrant's policy with respect to whether investment income and
realized gains and losses allocable to policyholders and separate accounts are included in the
investment income and realized gain and loss amounts reported in the statement of
comprehensive income statement. If the statement of comprehensive income statement includes
investment income and realized gains and losses allocable to policyholders and separate
accounts, indicate the amounts of such allocable investment income and realized gains and losses
and the manner in which the insurance enterprise's obligation with respect to allocation of such

A-42

investment income and realized gains and losses is otherwise accounted for in the financial
statements.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
(c) The method followed in determining the cost of investments sold (e.g., "average cost," "firstin, first-out," or "identified certificate") shall be disclosed. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section II.B.9 of this release.
(d) For each period for which an statement of comprehensive income statement is filed, include
in a note an analysis of realized and unrealized investment gains and losses on fixed maturities
and equity securities. For each period, state separately for fixed maturities [see § 210.7-03.1(a)]
and for equity securities [see § 210.7-03.1(b)] the following amounts:
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
7. Underwriting, acquisition and insurance expenses. State separately in the statement of
comprehensive income statement or in a note thereto (a) the amount included in this caption
representing deferred policy acquisition costs amortized to income during the period, and (b) the
amount of other operating expenses. State separately in the statement of comprehensive income
statement any material amount included in all other operating expenses.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
9. Income tax expense. Include under this caption only taxes based on income. (See § 210.408(gh).)
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
***

A-43

13. Income or loss before extraordinary items and cumulative effects of changes in accounting
principles. [Reserved]
See discussion in Sections V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
14. Extraordinary items, less applicable tax. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section V.B.13 of this release.
15. Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section V.B.14 of this release.
***
18. Net income attributable to the controlling interest.
19. Other comprehensive income.
State separately the components of and the total for other comprehensive income. Present the
components either net of related tax effects or before related tax effects with one amount shown
for the aggregate income tax expense or benefit. State the amount of income tax expense or
benefit allocated to each component, including reclassification adjustments, in the statement of
comprehensive income or in a note.
20. Comprehensive income.
21. Comprehensive income attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
22. Comprehensive income attributable to the controlling interest.
1923. Earnings per share data.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.7-05 What schedules are to be filed.
(a) Except as expressly provided otherwise in the applicable form:
***

A-44

(2) The schedules specified below in this section as Schedule IV and V shall be filed for each
period for which an audited statement of comprehensive income statement is required to be filed
for each person or group.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
(c) The schedules shall be examined by the independent accountant.
***
Schedule II—Condensed financial information of registrant. The schedule prescribed by §
210.12-04 shall be filed when the restricted net assets (§ 210.4.08(e)(3)1-02(dd)) of consolidated
subsidiaries exceed 25 percent of consolidated net assets as of the end of the most recently
completed fiscal year. For purposes of the above test, restricted net assets of consolidated
subsidiaries shall mean that amount of the registrant's proportionate share of net assets of
consolidated subsidiaries (after intercompany eliminations) which as of the end of the most
recent fiscal year may not be transferred to the parent company by subsidiaries in the form of
loans, advances or cash dividends without the consent of a third party (i.e., lender, regulatory
agency, foreign government, etc.). Where restrictions on the amount of funds which may be
loaned or advanced differ from the amount restricted as to transfer in the form of cash dividends,
the amount least restrictive to the subsidiary shall be used. Redeemable preferred stocks (§210.703.20) and noncontrolling interests shall be deducted in computing net assets for purposes of this
test.
See discussion in Section III.D.2.a of this release.
Schedule III—Supplementary insurance information. The schedule prescribed by § 210.12-16
shall be filed giving segment detail in support of various balance sheet and statement of
comprehensive income statement captions. The required balance sheet information shall be

A-45

presented as of the date of each audited balance sheet filed, and the statement of comprehensive
income statement information shall be presented for each period for which an audited statement
of comprehensive income statement is required to be filed, for each person or group.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§210.8-01 Preliminary Notes to Article 8
***
NOTE 2 TO § 210.8. Smaller reporting companies electing to prepare their financial statements
with the form and content required in this article need not apply the other form and content
requirements in Regulation S-X with the exception of the following:
a. The report and qualifications of the independent accountant shall comply with the
requirements of Article 2 of this part (§§ 210.2-01 through 210.2-07); and
b. The description of accounting policies shall comply with Article 4-08(n) of this part; and
[Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.4 of this release.
***
NOTE 6 TO §210.8: Section 210.4-01(a)(3) shall apply to the preparation of financial statements
of smaller reporting companies.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
§ 210.8-02 Annual financial statements.
Smaller reporting companies shall file an audited balance sheet as of the end of each of the most
recent two fiscal years, or as of a date within 135 days if the issuer has existed for a period of
less than one fiscal year, and audited statements of comprehensive income, cash flows and

A-46

changes in stockholders' equity for each of the two fiscal years preceding the date of the most
recent audited balance sheet (or such shorter period as the registrant has been in business).
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.8-03 Interim financial statements.
Interim financial statements may be unaudited; however, before filing, interim financial
statements included in quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308(a) of this chapter) must be
reviewed by an independent public accountant using applicable professional standards and
procedures for conducting such reviews, as established by generally accepted auditing standards,
as may be modified or supplemented by the Commission. If, in any filing, the issuer states that
interim financial statements have been reviewed by an independent public accountant, a report of
the accountant on the review must be filed with the interim financial statements. Interim
financial statements shall include a balance sheet as of the end of the issuer's most recent fiscal
quarter, a balance sheet as of the end of the preceding fiscal year, and statements of
comprehensive income statements and statements of cash flows for the interim period up to the
date of such balance sheet and the comparable period of the preceding fiscal year.
See discussion in Sections V.B.1 and V.B.12 of this release.
***
(a) Condensed format. Interim financial statements may be condensed as follows:
***
(2) Statements of comprehensive iIncome statements (or the statement of net income if
comprehensive income is presented in two separate but consecutive financial statements) should
include net sales or gross revenue, each cost and expense category presented in the annual
financial statements that exceeds 20% of sales or gross revenues, provision for income taxes, and

A-47

discontinued operations, extraordinary items and cumulative effects of changes in accounting
principles or practices. (Financial institutions should substitute net interest income for sales for
purposes of determining items to be disclosed.) Dividends per share should be presented.
See discussion in Sections V.B.5, V.B.12, V.B.13, and V.B.14 of this release.
***
(5) Provide the information required by § 210.3-04.
See discussion in Sections III.C.16 and V.B.5 of this release.
***
(b) Disclosure required and additional instructions as to content—***
(2) Material subsequent events and contingencies. Disclosure must be provided of material
subsequent events and material contingencies notwithstanding disclosure in the annual financial
statements. [Reserved]
See discussion in Sections II.B.7 and III.C.7 of this release.
***
(4) Significant dispositions and business combinations. If a significant disposition or business
combination has occurred during the most recent interim period and the transaction required the
filing of a Form 8-K (§249.308 of this chapter), pro forma data must be presented that reflects
revenue, income from continuing operations, net income, net income attributable to the registrant
and income per share for the current interim period and the corresponding interim period of the
preceding fiscal year as though the transaction occurred at the beginning of the periods.
[Reserved]
See discussion in Sections III.C.9,III.C.10, and V.B.6 of this release.

A-48

(5) Material accounting changes. Disclosure must be provided of the date and reasons for any
material accounting change. The registrant's independent accountant must provide a letter in the
first Form 10-Q (§ 249.308a of this chapter) filed after the change indicating whether or not the
change is to a preferable method. [Disclosure must be provided of any retroactive change to prior
period financial statements, including the effect of any such change on income and income per
share.]
See discussion in Sections II.B.11, III.C.8, and III.E.11 of this release.
(6) Development stage companies. A registrant in the development stage must provide
cumulative financial information from inception.
See discussion in Section V.B.7 of this release.
Instruction 1 to § 210.8-03: Where Article 8 of this part (§§ 210.8-01 to 210.8-08) is applicable
to a Form 10-Q (§ 249.308a of this chapter) and the interim period is more than one quarter,
statements of comprehensive income statements must also be provided for the most recent
interim quarter and the comparable quarter of the preceding fiscal year.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.8-04 Financial statements of businesses acquired or to be acquired.
***
(b) The periods for which financial statements are to be presented are determined by comparison
of the most recent annual financial statements of the business acquired or to be acquired and the
smaller reporting company's most recent annual financial statements filed at or before the date of
acquisition to evaluate each of the following conditions:
***

A-49

(3) Compare the smaller reporting company's equity in the income from continuing operations
before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principles of the acquiree exclusive of amounts attributable to any noncontrolling interests to
such consolidated income of the smaller reporting company for the most recently completed
fiscal year.
See discussion in Sections V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
§ 210.8-05 Pro forma financial information.
***
(b) Pro forma statements should be condensed, in columnar form showing pro forma adjustments
and results, and should include the following:
(1) If the transaction was consummated during the most recent fiscal year or subsequent interim
period, pro forma statements of comprehensive income reflecting the combined operations of the
entities for the latest fiscal year and interim period, if any; or
(2) If consummation of the transaction has occurred or is probable after the date of the most
recent balance sheet required by § 210.8-02 or § 210.8-03, a pro forma balance sheet giving
effect to the combination as of the date of the most recent balance sheet. For a purchase, pro
forma statements of comprehensive income reflecting the combined operations of the entities for
the latest fiscal year and interim period, if any, are required.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.8-06 Real estate operations acquired or to be acquired.
If, during the period for which statements of comprehensive income statements are required, the
smaller reporting company has acquired one or more properties that in the aggregate are
significant, or since the date of the latest balance sheet required by § 210.8-02 or § 210.8-03, has

A-50

acquired or proposes to acquire one or more properties that in the aggregate are significant, the
following shall be furnished with respect to such properties:
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.9-03 Balance sheets.
The purpose of this rule is to indicate the various items which, if applicable, should appear on the
face of the balance sheets or in the notes thereto.
***
3. Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements or similar arrangements.
These amounts should be presented gross and not netted against Federal funds purchased and
securities sold under agreement to repurchase as reported in Caption 13.
See discussion in Section V.B.9.a of this release.
***
6. Investment securities.
***
(a) Disclose in a note the carrying value and market value of securities of (1) the U.S. Treasury
and other U.S. Government agencies and corporations; (2) states of the U.S. and political
subdivisions; and (3) other securities.
See discussion in Section II.B.10 of this release.
7. Loans. Disclose separately (1) total loans, (2) the related allowance for losses and (3) unearned
income.
***
(d) For each period for which an income statement is required, furnish in a note a statement of
changes in the allowance for loan losses showing the balances at beginning and end of the period

A-51

provision charged to income, recoveries of amounts charged off and losses charged to the
allowance. [Reserved]
See discussion in Sections II.B.10 of this release.
(e)
***
(3) Notwithstanding the aggregate disclosure called for by paragraph (e)(1) of this section above,
if any loans were not made in the ordinary course of business during any period for which an
statement of comprehensive income statement is required to be filed, provide an appropriate
description of each such loan (see §210.4-08(L)(3)).
See discussion in Sections V.B.12 and V.B.18 of this release.
***
10. Other assets. Disclose separately on the balance sheet or in a note thereto any of the
following assets or any other asset the amount of which exceeds thirty percent of stockholders
equity. The remaining assets may be shown as one amount.
(1) GoodwillExcess of cost over tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired (net of
amortization).
See discussion in Section V.B.9.b of this release.
***
(4) Other real estates.
(a) Disclose in a note the basis at which other real estate is carried. An reduction to fair market
value from the carrying value of the related loan at the time of acquisition shall be accounted for
as a loan loss. Any allowance for losses on other real estate which has been established
subsequent to acquisition should be deducted from other real estate. For each period for which an

A-52

statement of comprehensive income statement is required, disclosures should be made in a note
as to the changes in the allowances, including balance at beginning and end of period, provision
charged to income, and losses charged to the allowance.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
13. Short-term borrowing. Disclose separately on the balance sheet or in a note, amounts payable
for (1) Federal funds purchased and securities sold under agreements to repurchase; (2)
commercial paper, and (3) other short-term borrowings.
[(a) Disclose any unused lines of credit for short-term financing (§ 210.5-02.19(b)).]
***
16. Long-term debt. [Disclose in a note the information required by § 210.5-02.22.]
See discussion in Section III.E.5.d of this release.
§ 210.9-04 Statement of comprehensive Iincome statements.
The purpose of this section rule is to indicate the various items which, if applicable, should
appear on the face of the statement of comprehensive income statement or in the notes thereto.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
13. Other income. Disclose separately any of the following amounts, or any other item of other
income, which exceed one percent of the aggregate of total interest income and other income.
The remaining amounts may be shown as one amount, except for investment securities gains or
losses which shall be shown separately regardless of size.
***

A-53

(h) Investment securities gains or losses. The method followed in determining the cost of
investments sold (e.g., "average cost," "first-in, first-out," or "identified certificate") and rRelated
income taxes shall be disclosed.
See discussion in Section II.B.10 of this release.
***
14. Other expenses. Disclose separately any of the following amounts, or any other item of other
expense, which exceed one percent of the aggregate of total interest income and other income.
The remaining amounts may be shown as one amount.
(a) Salaries and employee benefits.
(b) Net occupancy expense of premises.
(c) Goodwill amortization.[Reserved]
See discussion in Section V.B.9.b of this release.
***
17. Income or loss before extraordinary items and cumulative effects of changes in accounting
principles. [Reserved]
See discussion in Sections V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
18. Extraordinary items, less applicable tax. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section V.B.13 of this release.
19. Cumulative effects of changes in accounting principles. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section V.B.14 of this release.
***
22. Net income attributable to the controlling interest.
23. Other comprehensive income.

A-54

State separately the components of and the total for other comprehensive income. Present the
components either net of related tax effects or before related tax effects with one amount shown
for the aggregate income tax expense or benefit. State the amount of income tax expense or
benefit allocated to each component, including reclassification adjustments, in the statement of
comprehensive income or in a note.
24. Comprehensive income.
25. Comprehensive income attributable to the noncontrolling interest.
26. Comprehensive income attributable to the controlling interest.
2327. Earnings per share data.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.9-05 Foreign activities.
***
(b) Disclosures.
***
(2) For each period for which an statement of comprehensive income statement is filed, state the
amount of revenue, income (loss) before taxes, and net income (loss) associated with foreign
activities. Disclose significant estimates and assumptions (including those related to the cost of
capital) used in allocating revenue and expenses to foreign activities; describe the nature and
effects of any changes in such estimates and assumptions which have a significant impact on
interperiod comparability.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.9-06 Condensed financial information of registrant.

A-55

The information prescribed by § 210.12-04 shall be presented in a note to the financial
statements when the restricted net assets (§ 210.1-02(dd)4-08(e)(3)) of consolidated subsidiaries
exceed 25 percent of consolidated net assets as of the end of the most recently completed fiscal
year. The investment in and indebtedness of and to bank subsidiaries shall be stated separately in
the condensed balance sheet from amounts for other subsidiaries; the amount of cash dividends
paid to the registrant for each of the last three years by bank subsidiaries shall be stated
separately in the condensed statement of comprehensive income statement from amounts for
other subsidiaries. For purposes of the above test, restricted net assets of consolidated
subsidiaries shall mean that amount of the registrant's proportionate share of net assets of
consolidated subsidiaries (after intercompany eliminations) which as of the end of the most
recent fiscal year may not be transferred to the parent company by subsidiaries in the form of
loans, advances or cash dividends without the consent of a third party (i.e., lender, regulatory
agency, foreign government, etc.). Where restrictions on the amount of funds which may be
loaned or advanced differ from the amount restricted as to transfer in the form of cash dividends,
the amount least restrictive to the subsidiary shall be used. Redeemable preferred stocks (§210.502.27) and noncontrolling interests shall be deducted in computing net assets for purposes of this
test.
See discussion in Sections III.D.2.a and V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.10-01 Interim financial statements.
(a) Condensed statements. Interim financial statements shall follow the general form and content
of presentation prescribed by the other sections of this Regulation with the following exceptions:
***

A-56

(3) Interim statements of comprehensive income shall also include major captions prescribed by
the applicable sections of this Regulation S-X (part 210 of this chapter). When any major
statement of comprehensive income (or statement of net income if comprehensive income is
presented in two separate but consecutive financial statements)statement caption is less than 15%
of average net income for the most recent three fiscal years and the amount in the caption has not
increased or decreased by more than 20% as compared to the corresponding interim period of the
preceding fiscal year, the caption may be combined with others. In calculating average net
income, loss years should be excluded. If losses were incurred in each of the most recent three
years, the average loss shall be used for purposes of this test. Notwithstanding these tests, §
210.4-02 applies and de minimis amounts therefore need not be shown separately, except that
registrants reporting under § 210.9 shall show investment securities gains or losses separately
regardless of size.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
(5) The interim financial information shall include disclosures either on the face of the financial
statements or in accompanying footnotes sufficient so as to make the interim information
presented not misleading. Registrants may presume that users of the interim financial
information have read or have access to the audited financial statements for the preceding fiscal
year and that the adequacy of additional disclosure needed for a fair presentation, except in
regard to material contingencies, may be determined in that context. Accordingly, footnote
disclosure which would substantially duplicate the disclosure contained in the most recent annual
report to security holders or latest audited financial statements, such as a statement of significant
accounting policies and practices, details of accounts which have not changed significantly in

A-57

amount or composition since the end of the most recently completed fiscal year, and detailed
disclosures prescribed by Rule § 4-08of this Regulation, may be omitted. However, disclosure
shall be provided where events subsequent to the end of the most recent fiscal year have occurred
which have a material impact on the registrant. Disclosures should encompass for example,
significant changes since the end of the most recently completed fiscal year in such items as:
accounting principles and practices; estimates inherent in the preparation of financial statements;
status of long-term contracts; capitalization including significant new borrowings or modification
of existing financing arrangements; and the reporting entity resulting from business
combinations or dispositions. Notwithstanding the above, where material contingencies exist,
disclosure of such matters shall be provided even though a significant change since year end may
not have occurred.
See discussion in Sections II.B.7 and III.C.7 of this release.
***
(7) In addition to the financial statements required by paragraphs (a) (2), (3) and (4) of this
section, registrants in the development stage shall provide the cumulative financial statements
(condensed to the same degree as allowed in this paragraph) and disclosures required by FASB
ASC Topic 915, Development Stage Entities, to the date of the latest balance sheet presented.
Provide the information required by § 210.3-04.
See discussion in Section III.C.16, V.B.5, and V.B.7 of this release.
(b) Other instructions as to content. The following additional instructions shall be applicable for
purposes of preparing interim financial statements:
(1) Summarized statement of comprehensive income statement information shall be given
separately as to each subsidiary not consolidated or 50 percent or less owned persons or as to

A-58

each group of such subsidiaries or fifty percent or less owned persons for which separate
individual or group statements would otherwise be required for annual periods. Such
summarized information, however, need not be furnished for any such unconsolidated subsidiary
or person which would not be required pursuant to Rule § 240.13a-13 or § 240.15d-13 of this
chapter to file quarterly financial information with the Commission if it were a registrant.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
(2) If appropriate, the income statement shall show earnings per share and dividends declared per
share applicable to common stock. [The basis of the earnings per share computation shall be
stated together with the number of shares used in the computation.] In addition, see Item
601(b)(11) of Regulation S-K, (17 CFR 229.601(b)(11)).
See discussion in Sections II.B.8, III.E.10, and V.B.5 of this release.
[(3) If, during the most recent interim period presented, the registrant or any of its consolidated
subsidiaries entered into a combination between entities under common control, the interim
financial statements for both the current year and the preceding year shall reflect the combined
results of the combined businesses. Ssupplemental disclosure of the separate results of the
combined entities for periods prior to the combination shall be given, with appropriate
explanations.]
See discussion in Sections II.B.13 and III.E.12 of this release.
(4) Where a material business combination has occurred during the current fiscal year, pro forma
disclosure shall be made of the results of operations for the current year up to the date of the
most recent interim balance sheet provided (and for the corresponding period in the preceding
year) as though the companies had combined at the beginning of the period being reported on.
This pro forma information shall, at a minimum, show revenue, income before extraordinary

A-59

items and the cumulative effect of accounting changes, including such income on a per share
basis, net income, net income attributable to the registrant, and net income per share. [Reserved]
See discussion in Sections III.C.9, V.B.6, V.B.13, and V.B.14 of this release.
(5) Where the registrant has reported a discontinued operation (as required by FASB ASC
Subtopic 205-20, Presentation of Financial Statements—Discontinued Operations) during any of
the periods covered by the interim financial statements, the effect thereof on revenues and net
income—total and per share—for all periods shall be disclosed. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section II.B.14 of this release.
(6) In addition to meeting the reporting requirements specified by existing standards for
accounting changes, the registrant shall state the date of any material accounting change and the
reasons for making it. In addition, fFor filings on Form 10-Q (§ 249.308(a) of this chapter), a
letter from the registrant's independent accountant shall be filed as an exhibit (in accordance with
the provisions of Item 601 of Regulation S-K, (17 CFR 229.601)) in the first Form 10-Q after the
date of an accounting change indicating whether or not the change is to an alternative principle
which, in the accountant's judgment, is preferable under the circumstances; except that no letter
from the accountant need be filed when the change is made in response to a standard adopted by
the Financial Accounting Standards Board that requires such change.
See discussion in Sections II.B.11 and III.C.8 of this release.
[(7) Any material retroactive prior period adjustment made during any period covered by the
interim financial statements shall be disclosed, together with the effect thereof upon net
income—total and per share—of any prior period included and upon the balance of retained
earnings. If results of operations for any period presented have been adjusted retroactively by

A-60

such an item subsequent to the initial reporting of such period, similar disclosure of the effect of
the change shall be made.]
See discussion in Section III.E.11 of this release.
(8) Any unaudited interim financial statements furnished shall reflect all adjustments which are,
in the opinion of management, necessary to a fair statement of the results for the interim periods
presented. A statement to that effect shall be included. Such adjustments shall include, for
example, appropriate estimated provisions for bonus and profit sharing arrangements normally
determined or settled at year-end. If all such adjustments are of a normal recurring nature, a
statement to that effect shall be made; otherwise, there shall be furnished information describing
in appropriate detail the nature and amount of any adjustments other than normal recurring
adjustments entering into the determination of the results shown.
See discussion in Sections II.B.12 of this release.
(c) Periods to be covered. The periods for which interim financial statements are to be provided
in registration statements are prescribed elsewhere in this Regulation (see §§ 210.3-01 and 3-02).
For filings on Form 10-Q, financial statements shall be provided as set forth in this paragraph
(c):
***
(2) Interim statements of comprehensive income shall be provided for the most recent fiscal
quarter, for the period between the end of the preceding fiscal year and the end of the most recent
fiscal quarter, and for the corresponding periods of the preceding fiscal year. Such statements
may also be presented for the cumulative twelve month period ended during the most recent
fiscal quarter and for the corresponding preceding period.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.

A-61

***
(4) Registrants engaged in seasonal production and sale of a single-crop agricultural commodity
may provide interim statements of comprehensive income and cash flows for the twelve month
period ended during the most recent fiscal quarter and for the corresponding preceding period in
lieu of the year-to-date statements specified in (c)(2) and (3) of this section above.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
(d) Interim review by independent public accountant. Prior to filing, interim financial statements
included in quarterly reports on Form 10-Q (17 CFR 249.308(a)) must be reviewed by an
independent public accountant using applicable professional standards and procedures for
conducting such reviews, as established by generally accepted auditing standards, as may be
modified or supplemented by the Commission. If, in any filing, the company states that interim
financial statements have been reviewed by an independent public accountant, a report of the
accountant on the review must be filed with the interim financial statements.
See discussion in Section V.B.1 of this release.
§ 210.11-02 Preparation requirements.
***
(b) Form and content. (1) Pro forma financial information shall consist of a pro forma condensed
balance sheet, pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income, and accompanying
explanatory notes. In certain circumstances (i.e., where a limited number of pro forma
adjustments are required and those adjustments are easily understood), a narrative description of
the pro forma effects of the transaction may be furnished in lieu of the statements described
herein.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.

A-62

***
(3) The pro forma condensed financial information need only include major captions (i.e., the
numbered captions) prescribed by the applicable sections of this Regulation S-X (part 210).
Where any major balance sheet caption is less than 10 percent of total assets, the caption may be
combined with others. When any major statement of comprehensive income statement caption is
less than 15 percent of average net income attributable to the registrant for the most recent three
fiscal years, the caption may be combined with others. In calculating average net income
attributable to the registrant, loss years should be excluded unless losses were incurred in each of
the most recent three years, in which case the average loss shall be used for purposes of this test.
Notwithstanding these tests, de minimis amounts need not be shown separately.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
(5) The pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income statement shall disclose
income (loss) from continuing operations before nonrecurring charges or credits directly
attributable to the transaction. Material nonrecurring charges or credits and related tax effects
which result directly from the transaction and which will be included in the income of the
registrant within the 12 months succeeding the transaction shall be disclosed separately. It should
be clearly indicated that such charges or credits were not considered in the pro forma condensed
statement of comprehensive income statement. If the transaction for which pro forma financial
information is presented relates to the disposition of a business, the pro forma results should give
effect to the disposition and be presented under an appropriate caption.
(6) Pro forma adjustments related to the pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive
income statement shall be computed assuming the transaction was consummated at the beginning

A-63

of the fiscal year presented and shall include adjustments which give effect to events that are (i)
directly attributable to the transaction, (ii) expected to have a continuing impact on the registrant,
and (iii) factually supportable. Pro forma adjustments related to the pro forma condensed balance
sheet shall be computed assuming the transaction was consummated at the end of the most recent
period for which a balance sheet is required by § 210.3-01 and shall include adjustments which
give effect to events that are directly attributable to the transaction and factually supportable
regardless of whether they have a continuing impact or are nonrecurring. All adjustments should
be referenced to notes which clearly explain the assumptions involved.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
(7) Historical primary and fully diluted per share data based on continuing operations (or net
income if the registrant does not report either discontinued operations, extraordinary items, or the
cumulative effects of accounting changes) for the registrant, and primary and fully diluted pro
forma per share data based on continuing operations before nonrecurring charges or credits
directly attributable to the transaction shall be presented on the face of the pro forma condensed
statement of comprehensive income statement together with the number of shares used to
compute such per share data. For transactions involving the issuance of securities, the number of
shares used in the calculation of the pro forma per share data should be based on the weighted
average number of shares outstanding during the period adjusted to give effect to shares
subsequently issued or assumed to be issued had the particular transaction or event taken place at
the beginning of the period presented. If a convertible security is being issued in the transaction,
consideration should be given to the possible dilution of the pro forma per share data.
See discussion in Sections V.B.12, V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
***

A-64

Instructions: 1 to paragraph (b). The historical statement of comprehensive income used in the
pro forma financial information shall not report discontinued operations of a segment that has
been discontinued, extraordinary items, or the cumulative effects of accounting changes. If the
historical statement of comprehensive income includes such items, only the portion of the
statement of comprehensive income statement through “income from continuing operations” (or
the appropriate modification thereof) should be used in preparing pro forma results.
See discussion in Sections V.B.10, V.B.12, V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
Instruction 2 to paragraph (b). For a business combination, pro forma adjustments for the
statement of comprehensive income statement shall include amortization, depreciation and other
adjustments based on the allocated purchase price of net assets acquired. In some transactions,
such as in financial institution acquisitions, the purchase adjustments may include significant
discounts of the historical cost of the acquired assets to their fair value at the acquisition date.
When such adjustments will result in a significant effect on earnings (losses) in periods
immediately subsequent to the acquisition which will be progressively eliminated over a
relatively short period, the effect of the purchase adjustments on reported results of operations
for each of the next five years should be disclosed in a note.
***
Instruction 3 to paragraph (b).
***
Instruction 4 to paragraph (b).
***
Instruction 5 to paragraph (b). Adjustments to reflect the acquisition of real estate operations
or properties for the pro forma statement of comprehensive income statement shall include a

A-65

depreciation charge based on the new accounting basis for the assets, interest financing on
any additional or refinanced debt, and other appropriate adjustments that can be factually
supported. See also Instruction 4 to paragraph (b) of this section above.
***
Instruction 6 to paragraph (b).
***
Instruction 7 to paragraph (b). Tax effects, if any, of pro forma adjustments normally should
be calculated at the statutory rate in effect during the periods for which pro forma condensed
statements of comprehensive income statements are presented and should be reflected as a
separate pro forma adjustment.
(c) Periods to be presented.
***
(2)(i) Pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income shall be filed for only the most
recent fiscal year and for the period from the most recent fiscal year end to the most recent
interim date for which a balance sheet is required. A pro forma condensed statement of
comprehensive income may be filed for the corresponding interim period of the preceding fiscal
year. A pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income shall not be filed when the
historical statement of comprehensive income statement reflects the transaction for the entire
period.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
(ii) For combinations between entities under common control a business combination accounted
for as a pooling of interests, the pro forma statements of comprehensive income statements
(which are in effect a restatement of the historical statements of comprehensive income

A-66

statements as if the combination had been consummated) shall be filed for all periods for which
historical statements of comprehensive income statements of the registrant are required.
See discussion in Sections V.B.11 and V.B.12 of this release.
(3) Pro forma condensed statements of comprehensive income shall be presented using the
registrant's fiscal year end. If the most recent fiscal year end of any other entity involved in the
transaction differs from the registrant's most recent fiscal year end by more than 93 days, the
other entity's statement of comprehensive income statement shall be brought up to within 93
days of the registrant's most recent fiscal year end, if practicable. This updating could be
accomplished by adding subsequent interim period results to the most recent fiscal year-end
information and deducting the comparable preceding year interim period results. Disclosure shall
be made of the periods combined and of the sales or revenues and income for any periods which
were excluded from or included more than once in the condensed pro forma statements of
comprehensive income statements (e.g., an interim period that is included both as part of the
fiscal year and the subsequent interim period). For investment companies subject to §§ 210.6-01
through to 210.6-10, the periods covered by the pro forma statements must be the same.
(4) Whenever unusual events enter into the determination of the results shown for the most
recently completed fiscal year, the effect of such unusual events should be disclosed and
consideration should be given to presenting a pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive
income statement for the most recent twelve-month period in addition to those required in
paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section above if the most recent twelve-month period is more
representative of normal operations.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.11-03 Presentation of financial forecast.

A-67

(a) A financial forecast may be filed in lieu of the pro forma condensed statements of
comprehensive income required by § 210.11-02(b)(1).
***
(2) The forecasted statement of comprehensive income shall be presented in the same degree of
detail as the pro forma condensed statement of comprehensive income required by § 210.1102(b)(3).
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.12-16 Supplementary insurance information.
***
4

The total of columns I and J should agree with the amount shown for statement of

comprehensive income statement caption 7.
5

Totals should agree with the indicated balance sheet and statement of comprehensive income

statement caption amounts, where a caption number is shown.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.12-17 Reinsurance.
***
2

This Column represents the total of column B less column C plus column D. The total

premiums in this column should represent the amount of premium revenue on the statement of
comprehensive income statement.(or statement of net income if comprehensive income is
presented in two separate but consecutive financial statements).
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 210.12-18 Supplemental information (for property-casualty insurance underwriters).

A-68

1

Information included in audited financial statements, including other schedules, need not be

repeated in this schedule. Columns B, C, D, and E are as of the balance sheet dates, columns F,
G, H, I, J, and K are for the same periods for which statements of comprehensive income
statements are presented in the registrant's audited consolidated financial statements.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.

A-69

§ 210.12-28 Real estate and accumulated depreciation.1
(For certain real estate companies)
Column A
***

Column B
***

Column C
***

Column D
***

Column E
***

Column F
***

Column G
***

Column H Column I – Life
***
on
which
depreciation
in latest
statements of
comprehensive
income
statements
is
computed
***

1

All money columns shall be totaled.

***
4

In a note to this schedule, furnish a reconciliation, in the following form, of the total amount at which real estate was carried at the

beginning of each period for which statements of comprehensive income statements are required, with the total amount shown in
column E:
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.

A-70

§ 210.12-29 Mortgage loans on real estate.1
***
1

All money columns shall be totaled.

***
6

In a note to this schedule, furnish a reconciliation, in the following form, of the carrying amount

of mortgage loans at the beginning of each period for which statements of comprehensive
income statements are required, with the total amount shown in column G:
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
PART 229 – STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND ENERGY
POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975—REGULATION S-K
§ 229.10 (Item 10) General.
***
(b) Commission policy on projections. The Commission encourages the use in documents
specified in Rule 175 under the Securities Act (§ 230.175 of this chapter) and Rule 3b-6 under
the Exchange Act (§ 240.3b-6 of this chapter) of management's projections of future economic
performance that have a reasonable basis and are presented in an appropriate format. The
guidelines set forth herein represent the Commission's views on important factors to be
considered in formulating and disclosing such projections.
***
(2) Format for projections. In determining the appropriate format for projections included in
Commission filings, consideration must be given to, among other things, the financial items to be
projected, the period to be covered, and the manner of presentation to be used. Although

A-71

traditionally projections have been given for three financial items generally considered to be of
primary importance to investors (revenues, net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share),
projection information need not necessarily be limited to these three items. However,
management should take care to assure that the choice of items projected is not susceptible of
misleading inferences through selective projection of only favorable items. Revenues, net
income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share usually are presented together in order to avoid any
misleading inferences that may arise when the individual items reflect contradictory trends.
There may be instances, however, when it is appropriate to present earnings (loss) from
continuing operations, or income (loss) before extraordinary items in addition to or in lieu of net
income (loss). It generally would be misleading to present sales or revenue projections without
one of the foregoing measures of income. The period that appropriately may be covered by a
projection depends to a large extent on the particular circumstances of the company involved.
For certain companies in certain industries, a projection covering a two or three year period may
be entirely reasonable. Other companies may not have a reasonable basis for projections beyond
the current year. Accordingly, management should select the period most appropriate in the
circumstances. In addition, management, in making a projection, should disclose what, in its
opinion, is the most probable specific amount or the most reasonable range for each financial
item projected based on the selected assumptions. Ranges, however, should not be so wide as to
make the disclosures meaningless. Moreover, several projections based on varying assumptions
may be judged by management to be more meaningful than a single number or range and would
be permitted.
See discussion in Section V.B.13 of this release.
***

A-72

(e) Use of non-GAAP financial measures in Commission filings.
***
(2) For purposes of this paragraph (e), a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of
a registrant's historical or future financial performance, financial position or cash flows that:
(i) Excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that
are included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance
with GAAP in the statement of comprehensive income, balance sheet or statement of cash flows
(or equivalent statements) of the issuer; or
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 229.101 (Item 101) Description of business.
***
(b) Financial information about segments. Report for each segment, as defined by generally
accepted accounting principles, revenues from external customers, a measure of profit or loss
and total assets. A registrant must report this information for each of the last three fiscal years or
for as long as it has been in business, whichever period is shorter. If the information provided in
response to this paragraph (b) conforms with generally accepted accounting principles, a
registrant may include in its financial statements a cross reference to this data in lieu of
presenting duplicative information in the financial statements; conversely, a registrant may cross
reference to the financial statements. [Reserved]
(1) If a registrant changes the structure of its internal organization in a manner that causes the
composition of its reportable segments to change, the registrant must restate the corresponding
information for earlier periods, including interim periods, unless it is impracticable to do so.
Following a change in the composition of its reportable segments, a registrant shall disclose

A-73

whether it has restated the corresponding items of segment information for earlier periods. If it
has not restated the items from earlier periods, the registrant shall disclose in the year in which
the change occurs segment information for the current period under both the old basis and the
new basis of segmentation, unless it is impracticable to do so.
(2) If the registrant includes, or is required by Article 3 of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210) to
include, interim financial statements, discuss any facts relating to the performance of any of the
segments during the period which, in the opinion of management, indicate that the three year
segment financial data may not be indicative of current or future operations of the segment.
Comparative financial information shall be included to the extent necessary to the discussion.
See discussion in Section III.C.11 of this release.
(c) Narrative description of business. (1) Describe the business done and intended to be done by
the registrant and its subsidiaries, focusing upon the registrant's dominant segment or each
reportable segment about which financial information is presented in the financial statements. To
the extent material to an understanding of the registrant's business taken as a whole, the
description of each such segment shall include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)
through (x) of this section. The matters specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(xi) through (xiii) of this
section shall be discussed with respect to the registrant's business in general; where material, the
segments to which these matters are significant shall be identified.
(i) The principal products produced and services rendered by the registrant in the segment and
the principal markets for, and methods of distribution of, the segment's principal products and
services. [In addition, state for each of the last three fiscal years the amount or percentage of total
revenue contributed by any class of similar products or services which accounted for 10 percent
or more of consolidated revenue in any of the last three fiscal years or 15 percent or more of

A-74

consolidated revenue, if total revenue did not exceed $50,000,000 during any of such fiscal
years.]
See discussion in Section III.E.13 of this release.

***
(v) The extent to which the business of the segment is or may be seasonal. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.13.b of this release.
***
[(vii) The dependence of the segment upon a single customer, or a few customers, the loss of any
one or more of which would have a material adverse effect on the segment. The name of any
customer and its relationship, if any, with the registrant or its subsidiaries shall be disclosed if
sales to the customer by one or more segments are made in an aggregate amount equal to 10
percent or more of the registrant's consolidated revenues and the loss of such customer would
have a material adverse effect on the registrant and its subsidiaries taken as a whole. The names
of other customers may be included, unless in the particular case the effect of including the
names would be misleading. For purposes of this paragraph, a group of customers under
common control or customers that are affiliates of each other shall be regarded as a single
customer.]
See discussion in Section III.E.14 of this release.
***
(xi) If material, the estimated amount spent during each of the last three fiscal years on companysponsored research and development activities determined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. In addition, state, if material, the estimated dollar amount spent during

A-75

each of such years on customer-sponsored research activities relating to the development of new
products, services or techniques or the improvement of existing products, services or techniques.
[Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.14.a of this release.
(d) Financial information about geographic areas. (1) State for each of the registrant's last three
fiscal years, or for each fiscal year the registrant has been engaged in business, whichever period
is shorter:
(i) Revenues from external customers attributed to:
(A) The registrant's country of domicile;
(B) All foreign countries, in total, from which the registrant derives revenues; and
(C) Any individual foreign country, if material. Disclose the basis for attributing revenues from
external customers to individual countries.
(ii) Long-lived assets, other than financial instruments, long-term customer relationships of a
financial institution, mortgage and other servicing rights, deferred policy acquisition costs, and
deferred tax assets, located in:
(A) The registrant's country of domicile;
(B) All foreign countries, in total, in which the registrant holds assets; and
(C) Any individual foreign country, if material.
(2) A registrant shall report the amounts based on the financial information that it uses to
produce the general-purpose financial statements. If providing the geographic information is
impracticable, the registrant shall disclose that fact. A registrant may wish to provide, in addition
to the information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, subtotals of geographic
information about groups of countries. To the extent that the disclosed information conforms

A-76

with generally accepted accounting principles, the registrant may include in its financial
statements a cross reference to this data in lieu of presenting duplicative data in its financial
statements; conversely, a registrant may cross-reference to the financial statements. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.12.a of this release.
(3) A registrant shall describe any risks attendant to the foreign operations and any dependence
on one or more of the registrant's segments upon such foreign operations, unless it would be
more appropriate to discuss this information in connection with the description of one or more of
the registrant's segments under paragraph (c) of this item.
See discussion in Section III.C.12.b of this release.
(4) If the registrant includes, or is required by Article 3 of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210), to
include, interim financial statements, discuss any facts relating to the information furnished
under this paragraph (d) that, in the opinion of management, indicate that the three year financial
data for geographic areas may not be indicative of current or future operations. To the extent
necessary to the discussion, include comparative information.
See discussion in Section III.D.3 of this release.
(e) Available information. Disclose the information in paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2) and (e) through
(3) of this section in any registration statement you file under the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.), and disclose the information in paragraphs (e)(3) of this section in your annual report on
Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter). and Further disclose the information in paragraph (e)(4)
of this section if you are an accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer (as defined in § 240.12b2 of this chapter) filing an annual report on Form 10-K (§ 249.310 of this chapter):
(1) Whether you file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If you are a
reporting company, identify the reports and other information you file with the SEC.

A-77

(2) That the public may read and copy any materials you file with the SEC at the SEC's Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549. State that the public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC0330. If you are an electronic filer, sState that the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains
reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file
electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov).
(3) You are encouraged to give your Internet address, if available, except that if you are an
accelerated filer or a large accelerated filer filing your annual report on Form 10-K, you must
dDisclose your Internet address, if you have one.
See discussion in Sections IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
***
(h) Smaller reporting companies. A smaller reporting company, as defined by § 229.10(f)(1),
may satisfy its obligations under this Item by describing the development of its business during
the last three years. If the smaller reporting company has not been in business for three years,
give the same information for predecessor(s) of the smaller reporting company if there are any.
This business development description should include:
***
(4) Business of the smaller reporting company. Briefly describe the business and include, to the
extent material to an understanding of the smaller reporting company:
***
(vi) [Dependence on one or a few major customers;]
See discussion in Section III.E.14 of this release.
***

A-78

(x) Estimate of the amount spent during each of the last two fiscal years on research and
development activities, and if applicable, the extent to which the cost of such activities is borne
directly by customers; [Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.14.a of this release.
(5) Reports to security holders. Disclose the following in any registration statement you file
under the Securities Act of 1933:
***
(iii) That the public may read and copy any materials you file with the Commission at the SEC's
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, on official business days
during the hours of 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. State that the public may obtain information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. State
that the Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Commission
and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). You are encouraged to give Disclose your
Internet address, if available.
See discussion in Sections IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
§ 229.103 (Item 103) Legal proceedings.
[Describe briefly any material pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation
incidental to the business, to which the registrant or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which
any of their property is the subject. Include the name of the court or agency in which the
proceedings are pending, the date instituted, the principal parties thereto, a description of the
factual basis alleged to underlie the proceeding and the relief sought. Include similar information
as to any such proceedings known to be contemplated by governmental authorities.

A-79

Instructions to Item 103. 1. If the business ordinarily results in actions for negligence or other
claims, no such action or claim need be described unless it departs from the normal kind of such
actions.
2. No information need be given with respect to any proceeding that involves primarily a claim
for damages if the amount involved, exclusive of interest and costs, does not exceed 10 percent
of the current assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. However, if any
proceeding presents in large degree the same legal and factual issues as other proceedings
pending or known to be contemplated, the amount involved in such other proceedings shall be
included in computing such percentage.
3. Notwithstanding Instructions 1 and 2, any material bankruptcy, receivership, or similar
proceeding with respect to the registrant or any of its significant subsidiaries shall be described.
4. Any material proceedings to which any director, officer or affiliate of the registrant, any owner
of record or beneficially of more than five percent of any class of voting securities of the
registrant, or any associate of any such director, officer, affiliate of the registrant, or security
holder is a party adverse to the registrant or any of its subsidiaries or has a material interest
adverse to the registrant or any of its subsidiaries also shall be described.
5. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an administrative or judicial proceeding (including, for
purposes of A and B of this Instruction, proceedings which present in large degree the same
issues) arising under any Federal, State or local provisions that have been enacted or adopted
regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or primary [primarily] for the purpose
of protecting the environment shall not be deemed "ordinary routine litigation incidental to the
business" and shall be described if:
A. Such proceeding is material to the business or financial condition of the registrant;

A-80

B. Such proceeding involves primarily a claim for damages, or involves potential monetary
sanctions, capital expenditures, deferred charges or charges to income and the amount involved,
exclusive of interest and costs, exceeds 10 percent of the current assets of the registrant and its
subsidiaries on a consolidated basis; or
C. A governmental authority is a party to such proceeding and such proceeding involves
potential monetary sanctions, unless the registrant reasonably believes that such proceeding will
result in no monetary sanctions, or in monetary sanctions, exclusive of interest and costs, of less
than $100,000; provided, however, that such proceedings which are similar in nature may be
grouped and described generically.]
See discussion in Section III.E.15 of this release.
§ 229.201 (Item 201) Market price of and dividends on the registrant's common equity
and related stockholder matters.
(a) Market information. (1)(i) Identify the principal United States market or markets and the
trading symbol(s) in which for each class of the registrant's common equity is being traded.
Where there is no established public trading market for a class of common equity, furnish a
statement to that effect. For purposes of this Item the existence of limited or sporadic quotations
should not of itself be deemed to constitute an “established public trading market.” In the case of
foreign registrants, also identify the principal established foreign public trading market, if any,
and the trading symbol(s), for each class of the registrant's common equity.
(ii) If the principal United States market for such common equity is an exchange, state the high
and low sales prices for the equity for each full quarterly period within the two most recent fiscal
years and any subsequent interim period for which financial statements are included, or are
required to be included by Article 3-01 through 3-04 of Regulation S-X (§210.3-01 through 3-04

A-81

of this chapter), or Article 8-02 through 8-03 of Regulation S-X (§210.8-02 through 8-03 of this
chapter) in the case of smaller reporting companies, as reported in the consolidated transaction
reporting system or, if not so reported, as reported on the principal exchange market for such
equity.
(iii) If the principal United States market for such common equity is not an exchange, state the
range of high and low bid information for the equity for each full quarterly period within the two
most recent fiscal years and any subsequent interim period for which financial statements are
included, or are required to be included by Article 3 of Regulation S-X, as regularly quoted in
the automated quotation system of a registered securities association, or where the equity is not
quoted in such a system, the range of reported high and low bid quotations, indicating the source
of such quotations. Iindicate, as applicable, that such any over-the-counter market quotations
reflect inter-dealer prices, without retail mark-up, mark-down or commission and may not
necessarily represent actual transactions. Where there is an absence of an established public
trading market, reference to quotations shall be qualified by appropriate explanation.
(iii) Where there is no established public trading market for a class of common equity, furnish a
statement to that effect and, if applicable, state the range of high and low bid information for
each full quarterly period within the two most recent fiscal years and any subsequent interim
period for which financial statements are included, or are required to be included by Article 3 of
Regulation S-X (part 210 of this chapter), indicating the source of such quotations. Reference to
quotations shall be qualified by appropriate explanation. For purposes of this Item the existence
of limited or sporadic quotations should not of itself be deemed to constitute an “established
public trading market.”

A-82

(iv) Where a foreign registrant has identified a principal established foreign trading market for its
common equity pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this Item, also provide market price information
comparable, to the extent practicable, to that required for the principal United States market,
including the source of such information. Such prices shall be stated in the currency in which
they are quoted. The registrant may translate such prices into United States currency at the
currency exchange rate in effect on the date the price disclosed was reported on the foreign
exchange. If the primary United States market for the registrant's common equity trades using
American Depositary Receipts, the United States prices disclosed shall be on that basis.
(v) If the information called for by this Item is being presented in a registration statement filed
pursuant to the Securities Act or a proxy or information statement filed pursuant to the Exchange
Act, the document also shall include price information as of the latest practicable date, and, in
the case of securities to be issued in connection with an acquisition, business combination or
other reorganization, as of the date immediately prior to the public announcement of such
transaction.
See discussion in Section IV.B.4.a of this release.
(2) If the information called for by this paragraph (a) is being presented in a registration
statement on Form S-1 (§ 239.11 of this chapter) under the Securities Act or on Form 10 (§
249.210 of this chapter) under the Exchange Act relating to a class of common equity for which
at the time of filing there is no established United States public trading market, indicate the
amount(s) of common equity:
(i) That is subject to outstanding options or warrants to purchase, or securities convertible into,
common equity of the registrant;[Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.15 of this release.

A-83

(c) Dividends.(1) [Reserved] State the frequency and amount of any cash dividends declared on
each class of its common equity by the registrant for the two most recent fiscal years and any
subsequent interim period for which financial statements are required to be presented by §210.3
of Regulation S-X. Where there are restrictions (including, where appropriate, restrictions on the
ability of registrant's subsidiaries to transfer funds to the registrant in the form of cash dividends,
loans or advances) that currently materially limit the registrant's ability to pay such dividends or
that the registrant reasonably believes are likely to limit materially the future payment of
dividends on the common equity so state and either (i) describe briefly (where appropriate
quantify) such restrictions, or (ii) cross reference to the specific discussion of such restrictions in
the Management's Discussion and Analysis of financial condition and operating results
prescribed by Item 303 of Regulation S-K (§229.303) and the description of such restrictions
required by Regulation S-X in the registrant's financial statements.
See discussion in Sections III.C.16 and III.D.2.a of this release.
***
(d) [Reserved]Securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans.(1) In the
following tabular format, provide the information specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this Item as of
the end of the most recently completed fiscal year with respect to compensation plans (including
individual compensation arrangements) under which equity securities of the registrant are
authorized for issuance, aggregated as follows:
(i) All compensation plans previously approved by security holders; and
(ii) All compensation plans not previously approved by security holders.
Equity Compensation Plan Information

A-84

Plan category Number of

Weighted-

Number of securities

securities to be average

remaining available

issued upon

exercise price

for future issuance

exercise of

of outstanding under equity

outstanding

options,

compensation plans

options,

warrants and

(excluding securities

warrants and

rights

reflected in column

rights
(a)

(a))
(b)

(c)

Equity
compensation
plans
approved by
security
holders

Equity
compensation
plans not
approved
by security
holders

A-85

Total

(2) The table shall include the following information as of the end of the most recently
completed fiscal year for each category of equity compensation plan described in paragraph
(d)(1) of this Item:
(i) The number of securities to be issued upon the exercise of outstanding options, warrants and
rights (column (a));
(ii) The weighted-average exercise price of the outstanding options, warrants and rights disclosed
pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this Item (column (b)); and
(iii) Other than securities to be issued upon the exercise of the outstanding options, warrants and
rights disclosed in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this Item, the number of securities remaining available
for future issuance under the plan (column (c)).
(3) For each compensation plan under which equity securities of the registrant are authorized for
issuance that was adopted without the approval of security holders, describe briefly, in narrative
form, the material features of the plan.
Instructions to Paragraph (d). 1. Disclosure shall be provided with respect to any compensation
plan and individual compensation arrangement of the registrant (or parent, subsidiary or affiliate
of the registrant) under which equity securities of the registrant are authorized for issuance to
employees or non-employees (such as directors, consultants, advisors, vendors, customers,
suppliers or lenders) in exchange for consideration in the form of goods or services as described
in FASB ASC Topic 718, Compensation – Stock Compensation, and FASB ASC Subtopic 50550, Equity - Equity-Based Payments to Non-Employees. No disclosure is required with respect
to:

A-86

(a) Any plan, contract or arrangement for the issuance of warrants or rights to all security holders
of the registrant as such on a pro rata basis (such as a stock rights offering) or
(b) Any employee benefit plan that is intended to meet the qualification requirements of Section
401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. §401(a)).
2. For purposes of this paragraph, an "individual compensation arrangement" includes, but is not
limited to, the following: a written compensation contract within the meaning of "employee
benefit plan" under §230.405 of this chapter and a plan (whether or not set forth in any formal
document) applicable to one person as provided under Item 402(a)(6)(ii) of Regulation S-K
(§229.402(a)(6)(ii)).
3. If more than one class of equity security is issued under its equity compensation plans, a
registrant should aggregate plan information for each class of security.
4. A registrant may aggregate information regarding individual compensation arrangements with
the plan information required under paragraph (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this item, as applicable.
5. A registrant may aggregate information regarding a compensation plan assumed in connection
with a merger, consolidation or other acquisition transaction pursuant to which the registrant may
make subsequent grants or awards of its equity securities with the plan information required
under paragraph (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this item, as applicable. A registrant shall disclose on an
aggregated basis in a footnote to the table the information required under paragraph (d)(2)(i) and
(ii) of this item with respect to any individual options, warrants or rights assumed in connection
with a merger, consolidation or other acquisition transaction.
6. To the extent that the number of securities remaining available for future issuance disclosed in
column (c) includes securities available for future issuance under any compensation plan or
individual compensation arrangement other than upon the exercise of an option, warrant or right,

A-87

disclose the number of securities and type of plan separately for each such plan in a footnote to
the table.
7. If the description of an equity compensation plan set forth in a registrant's financial statements
contains the disclosure required by paragraph (d)(3) of this item, a cross-reference to such
description will satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this item.
8. If an equity compensation plan contains a formula for calculating the number of securities
available for issuance under the plan, including, without limitation, a formula that automatically
increases the number of securities available for issuance by a percentage of the number of
outstanding securities of the registrant, a description of this formula shall be disclosed in a
footnote to the table.
9. Except where it is part of a document that is incorporated by reference into a prospectus, the
information required by this paragraph need not be provided in any registration statement filed
under the Securities Act.
See discussion in Section III.C.17 of this release.
***
Instructions to Item 201: Instruction 1 to Item 201. Registrants, the common equity of which is
listed for trading on more than one securities exchange registered under the Exchange Act, are
required to indicate each such exchange pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this Item; such
registrants, however, need only report one set of price quotations pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(ii)
of this Item; where available, these shall be the prices as reported in the consolidated transaction
reporting system and, where the prices are not so reported, the prices on the most significant (in
terms of volume) securities exchange for such shares.[Reserved]

A-88

Instruction 2 to Item 201. Market prices and dividends Bid information reported pursuant to this
Item shall be adjusted to give retroactive effect to material changes resulting from stock
dividends, stock splits and reverse stock splits.
Instruction 3 to Item 201. ***
Instruction 4 to Item 201. ***
Instruction 5 to Item 201. ***
See discussion in Sections III.C.16 and IV.B.4.a of this release.
§ 229.302 (Item 302) Supplementary financial information.
(a) Selected quarterly financial data. Registrants specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this Item shall
provide the information specified below.
(1) Disclosure shall be made of net sales, gross profit (net sales less costs and expenses
associated directly with or allocated to products sold or services rendered), income (loss) before
extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting, per share data based upon
such income (loss), net income (loss) and net income (loss) attributable to the registrant, for each
full quarter within the two most recent fiscal years and any subsequent interim period for which
financial statements are included or are required to be included by Article 3 of Regulation S-X
(part 210 of this chapter).
See discussion in Sections V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
***
(3) Describe the effect of any discontinued operations disposals of segments of a business, and
extraordinary, unusual or infrequently occurring items recognized in each full quarter within the
two most recent fiscal years and any subsequent interim period for which financial statements are
included or are required to be included by Article 3 of Regulation S-X, as well as the aggregate

A-89

effect and the nature of year-end or other adjustments which are material to the results of that
quarter.
See discussion in Sections V.B.10 and V.B.13 of this release.
***
[(b) Information about oil and gas producing activities. Registrants engaged in oil and gas
producing activities shall present the information about oil and gas producing activities (as those
activities are defined in Regulation S-X, § 210.4-10(a)) specified in FASB ASC Topic 932,
Extractive Activities—Oil and Gas, if such oil and gas producing activities are regarded as
significant under one or more of the tests set forth in FASB ASC Subtopic 932-235, Extractive
Activities—Oil and Gas—Notes to Financial Statements, for ‘Significant Activities.’
Instructions 1 to paragraph (b): 1. (a) FASB ASC Subtopic 932-235 disclosures that relate to
annual periods shall be presented for each annual period for which an statement of
comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X)statement is required, (b)
FASB ASC Subtopic 932-235 disclosures required as the end of an annual period shall be
presented as of the date of each audited balance sheet required, and (c) FASB ASC Subtopic
932-235 disclosures required as of the beginning of an annual period shall be presented as of the
beginning of each annual period for which an statement of comprehensive income (as defined in
§ 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter)statement is required.]
Instruction 2 to paragraph (b). This paragraph, together with § 210.4-10 of Regulation S-X,
prescribes financial reporting standards for the preparation of accounts by persons engaged, in
whole or in part, in the production of crude oil or natural gas in the United States, pursuant to
Section 503 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 8383) (“EPCA”) and
Section 11(c) of the Energy Supply and Environmental Coordination Act of 1974 (15 U.S.C.

A-90

796) (“ESECA”) as amended by Section 506 of EPCA. The application of the paragraph to those
oil and gas producing operations of companies regulated for ratemaking purposes on an
individual-company-cost-of-service basis may, however, give appropriate recognition to
differences arising because of the effect of the ratemaking process.
Instruction 3 to paragraph (b). Any person exempted by the Department of Energy from any
record-keeping or reporting requirements pursuant to Section 11(c) of ESECA, as amended, is
similarly exempted from the related provisions of this paragraph in the preparation of accounts
pursuant to EPCA. This exemption does not affect the applicability of this paragraph to filings
pursuant to the federal securities laws.
See discussion in Sections III.E.16 and V.B.12 of this release.
§ 229.303 (Item 303) Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and
results of operations.
(a) Full fiscal years. Discuss registrant's financial condition, changes in financial condition and
results of operations. The discussion shall provide information as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)
through (5) of this sectionItem and also shall provide such other information that the registrant
believes to be necessary to an understanding of its financial condition, changes in financial
condition and results of operations. Discussions of liquidity and capital resources may be
combined whenever the two topics are interrelated. Where in the registrant's judgment a
discussion of segment or geographic information or of other subdivisions of the registrant's
business would be appropriate to an understanding of such business, the discussion shall focus
on each relevant, reportable segment, geographic area, or other subdivision of the business and
on the registrant as a whole.
***

A-91

(b) Interim periods. If interim period financial statements are included or are required to be
included by Article 3 of Regulation S-X (17 CFR 210), a management's discussion and analysis
of the financial condition and results of operations shall be provided so as to enable the reader to
assess material changes in financial condition and results of operations between the periods
specified in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this Item. The discussion and analysis shall include a
discussion of material changes in those items specifically listed in paragraph (a) of this Item,
except that the impact of inflation and changing prices on operations for interim periods need not
be addressed.
See discussion in Sections III.D.3 of this release.
***
(2) Material changes in results of operations. Discuss any material changes in the registrant's
results of operations with respect to the most recent fiscal year-to-date period for which an
statement of comprehensive income statement (or statement of operations if comprehensive
income is presented in two separate but consecutive financial statements or if no other
comprehensive income) is provided and the corresponding year-to-date period of the preceding
fiscal year. If the registrant is required to or has elected to provide an statement of
comprehensive income statement (or statement of operations if comprehensive income is
presented in two separate but consecutive financial statements or if no other comprehensive
income) for the most recent fiscal quarter, such discussion also shall cover material changes with
respect to that fiscal quarter and the corresponding fiscal quarter in the preceding fiscal year. In
addition, if the registrant has elected to provide an statement of comprehensive income statement
(or statement of operations if comprehensive income is presented in two separate but consecutive
financial statements or if no other comprehensive income) for the twelve-month period ended as

A-92

of the date of the most recent interim balance sheet provided, the discussion also shall cover
material changes with respect to that twelve-month period and the twelve-month period ended as
of the corresponding interim balance sheet date of the preceding fiscal year. Notwithstanding the
above, if for purposes of a registration statement a registrant subject to paragraph (b) of § 210.303(b) of Regulation S-X of this chapter provides a statement of comprehensive income (or
statement of operations if comprehensive income is presented in two separate but consecutive
financial statements or if no other comprehensive income) for the twelve-month period ended as
of the date of the most recent interim balance sheet provided in lieu of the interim statements of
comprehensive income statements (or statement of operations if comprehensive income is
presented in two separate but consecutive financial statements or if no other comprehensive
income) otherwise required, the discussion of material changes in that twelve-month period will
be in respect to the preceding fiscal year rather than the corresponding preceding period.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
Instructions to paragraph (b) of Item 303.:
Instruction 1 to paragraph (b). ***
Instruction 2 to paragraph (b). ***
Instruction 3 to paragraph (b). ***
Instruction 4 to paragraph (b). ***
Instruction 5 to paragraph (b). The registrant shall discuss any seasonal aspects of its business
which have had a material effect upon its financial condition or results of operation. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.13.a of this release.
Instruction 6 to paragraph (b). ***

A-93

Instruction 7 to paragraph (b). ***
Instruction 8 to paragraph (b). The term statement of comprehensive income shall mean a
statement of comprehensive income as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 229.503 (Item 503) Prospectus summary, and risk factors, and ratio of earnings to fixed
charges.
***
(d) Ratio of earnings to fixed charges. If you register debt securities, show a ratio of earnings to
fixed charges. If you register preference equity securities, show the ratio of combined fixed
charges and preference dividends to earnings. Present the ratio for each of the last five fiscal
years and the latest interim period for which financial statements are presented in the document.
If you will use the proceeds from the sale of debt or preference securities to repay any of your
outstanding debt or to retire other securities and the change in the ratio would be ten percent or
greater, you must include a ratio showing the application of the proceeds, commonly referred to
as the pro forma ratio.
Instructions to paragraph 503(d) 1. Definitions. In calculating the ratio of earnings to fixed
charges, you must use the following definitions:
(A) Fixed charges. The term "fixed charges" means the sum of the following: (a) interest
expensed and capitalized, (b) amortized premiums, discounts and capitalized expenses related to
indebtedness, (c) an estimate of the interest within rental expense, and (d) preference security
dividend requirements of consolidated subsidiaries.
(B) Preference security dividend. The term "preference security dividend" is the amount of pretax earnings that is required to pay the dividends on outstanding preference securities. The

A-94

dividend requirement must be computed as the amount of the dividend divided by (1 minus the
effective income tax rate applicable to continuing operations).
(C) Earnings. The term “earnings” is the amount resulting from adding and subtracting the
following items. Add the following: (a) pre-tax income from continuing operations before
adjustment for income or loss from equity investees; (b) fixed charges; (c) amortization of
capitalized interest; (d) distributed income of equity investees; and (e) your share of pre-tax
losses of equity investees for which charges arising from guarantees are included in fixed
charges. From the total of the added items, subtract the following: (a) interest capitalized; (b)
preference security dividend requirements of consolidated subsidiaries; and (c) the
noncontrolling interest in pre-tax income of subsidiaries that have not incurred fixed charges.
Equity investees are investments that you account for using the equity method of accounting.
Public utilities following FASB ASC Topic 980, Regulated Operations, should not add
amortization of capitalized interest in determining earnings, nor reduce fixed charges by any
allowance for funds used during construction.
2. Disclosure. Disclose the following information when showing the ratio of earnings to fixed
charges:
(A) Deficiency. If a ratio indicates less than one-to-one coverage, disclose the dollar amount of
the deficiency.
(B) Pro forma ratio. You may show the pro forma ratio only for the most recent fiscal year and
the latest interim period. Use the net change in interest or dividends from the refinancing to
calculate the pro forma ratio.
(C) Foreign private issuers. A foreign private issuer must show the ratio based on the figures in
the primary financial statement. A foreign private issuer must show the ratio based on the figures

A-95

resulting from the reconciliation to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles if this ratio is
materially different.
(D) Summary Section. If you provide a summary or similar section in the prospectus, show the
ratios in that section.
3. Exhibit. File an exhibit to the registration statement to show the figures used to calculate the
ratios. See paragraph (b)(12) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.601(b)(12)).
See discussion in Section III.C.18 of this release.
(e) Smaller reporting companies. A registrant that qualifies as a smaller reporting company, as
defined by §229.10(f), need not comply with paragraph (d) of this Item.
See discussion in Section III.C.18 of this release.
§ 229.512 (Item 512) Undertakings.
Include each of the following undertakings that is applicable to the offering being registered.
(a) Rule 415 offering. *** Include the following if the securities are registered pursuant to Rule
415 under the Securities Act (§ 230.415 of this chapter):
***
The undersigned registrant hereby undertakes:
***
(4) If the registrant is a foreign private issuer, to file a post-effective amendment to the
registration statement to include any financial statements required by Item 8.A of Form 20-F (17
CFR § 249.220f of this chapter) at the start of any delayed offering or throughout a continuous
offering. Financial statements and information otherwise required by Ssection 10(a)(3) of the Act
(15 U.S.C. 77j(a)(3)) need not be furnished, provided that the registrant includes in the
prospectus, by means of a post-effective amendment, financial statements required pursuant to

A-96

this paragraph (a)(4) and other information necessary to ensure that all other information in the
prospectus is at least as current as the date of those financial statements. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, with respect to registration statements on Form F-3 (§ 239.33 of this chapter), a posteffective amendment need not be filed to include financial statements and information required
by Ssection 10(a)(3) of the Act or §210.3-19 of this chapter Item 8.A of Form 20-F if such
financial statements and information are contained in periodic reports filed with or furnished to
the Commission by the registrant pursuant to section 13 or section 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 that are incorporated by reference in the Form F-3.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
§ 229.601 (Item 601) Exhibits.
***
Exhibit Table
Instructions to the Exhibit Table.
1. The exhibit table indicates those documents that must be filed as exhibits to the respective
forms listed.
2. The "X" designation indicates the documents which are required to be filed with each form
even if filed previously with another document. Provided, however, that such previously filed
documents may be incorporated by reference to satisfy the filing requirements.
3. The number used in the far left column of the table refers to the appropriate subsection in
paragraph (b) where a description of the exhibit can be found. Whenever necessary, alphabetical
or numerical subparts may be used.

A-97

Exhibit Table

Securities act forms

Exchange act forms

S- S- SF- SF- S- S- S-

F- F- F-

8-

10- 10- 10- ABS-

10
1

3

1

3

41

8

11 1

3

41

K2 D

Q

K

X

X

***
(11) Statement re computation of per share earnings[Reserved]

X

X

X

X

X

X

(12) Statements re computation of ratios [Reserved]

X X

X

X

X

X

X

X

(13) Annual report to security holders, Form 10-Q or quarterly
report to security holders3

X

X

***
(19) Report furnished to security holders [Reserved]

X

***

A-98

X

EE

(22) Published report regarding matters submitted to vote of
security holders [Reserved]

X

***
(26) Invitation for competitive bids [Reserved]

X X X

X

X

***

See discussion in Sections II.B.8, II.B.15, III.C.18, III.C.19, and V.B.15 of this release.

A-99

X X X

X

X

***
(b) Description of exhibits. Set forth below is a description of each document listed in the exhibit
tables.
***
(11) Statement re computation of per share earnings. A statement setting forth in reasonable
detail the computation of per share earnings, unless the computation can be clearly determined
from the material contained in the registration statement or report. The information with respect
to the computation of per share earnings, presented by exhibit or otherwise, must be furnished on
both a basic and diluted basis. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section II.B.8 of this release.
(12) Statements re computation of ratios. A statement setting forth in reasonable detail the
computation of any ratio of earnings to fixed charges, any ratio of earnings to combined fixed
charges and preferred stock dividends or any other ratios which appear in the registration
statement or report. See Item 503(d) of Regulation S-K (§229.503(d)). [Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.18 of this release.
***
(19) Report furnished to security holders. If the registrant makes available to its security holders
or otherwise publishes, within the period prescribed for filing the report, a document or statement
containing information meeting some or all of the requirements of Part I of Form 10-Q, the
information called for may be incorporated by reference to such published document or
statement, provided copies thereof are included as an exhibit to the registration statement or to
Part I of the Form 10-Q report. [Reserved]
A-100

See discussion in Section II.B.15 of this release.
***
(22) Published report regarding matters submitted to vote of security holders. Published reports
containing all of the information called for by Item 4 of Part II of Form 10-Q or Item 4 of Part I
of Form 10-K that is referred to therein in lieu of providing disclosure in Form 10-Q or 10-K,
that are required to be filed as exhibits by Rule 12b-23(a)(3) under the Exchange Act (§240.12b23(a)(3) of this chapter). [Reserved]
See discussion in Section V.B.15 of this release.
(26) Invitations for competitive bids. If the registration statement covers securities to be offered
at competitive bidding, any form of communication which is an invitation for competitive bid
which will be sent or given to any person shall be filed. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.19 of this release.
***
(c) Smaller reporting companies. A smaller reporting company need not provide the disclosure
required in paragraph (b)(12) of this Item, Statements re computation of ratios.
See discussion in Section III.C.18 of this release.
§ 229.1010 (Item 1010) Financial statements.
(a) Financial information. Furnish the following financial information:
***
(2) Unaudited balance sheets, comparative year-to-date statements of comprehensive income
statements (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter) and related earnings per

A-101

share data, and statements of cash flows, and comprehensive income required to be included in
the company's most recent quarterly report filed under the Exchange Act; and
(3) Ratio of earnings to fixed charges, computed in a manner consistent with Item 503(d) of
Regulation S-K (§229.503(d)), for the two most recent fiscal years and the interim periods
provided under paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and [Reserved]
***
(b) Pro forma information. If material, furnish pro forma information disclosing the effect of the
transaction on:
***
(2) The company's statement of comprehensive income, and earnings per share, and ratio of
earnings to fixed charges for the most recent fiscal year and the latest interim period provided
under paragraph (a)(2) of this section; and
***
(c) Summary Information. Furnish a fair and adequate summary of the information specified in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for the same periods specified. A fair and adequate
summary includes:
***
(4) Ratio of earnings to fixed charges, computed in a manner consistent with Item 503(d) of
Regulation S-K (§229.503(d)); [Reserved]
See discussion in Sections III.C.18 and V.B.12 of this release.
§ 229.1118 (Item 1118) Reports and additional information.
***
A-102

(b) Reports to be filed with the Commission. (1) Specify the names, and if available, the
Commission file numbers of the entity or entities under which reports about the asset-backed
securities will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Identify the reports and
other information filed with the Commission.
(2) State that the public may read and copy any materials filed with the Commission at the
Commission's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE., Washington, DC 20549, on official
business days between the hours of 10 a.m. and 3 p.m. State that the public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Securities and
Exchange Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. State that the Commission maintains an Internet site
that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers
that file electronically with the Commission and state the address of that site
(http://www.sec.gov).
See discussion in Section IV.B.3.a of this release.
PART 230—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 §
230.158 Definitions of certain terms in the last paragraph of section 11(a).
(a) An “earning statement” made generally available to security holders of the registrant pursuant
to the last paragraph of section 11(a) of the Act shall be sufficient for the purposes of such
paragraph if:
(1) There is included the information required for statements of comprehensive income (as
defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter) contained either:
***

A-103

(2) The information specified in the last paragraph of section 11(a) is contained in one report or
any combination of reports either:
***
(ii) On Form 20-F, Form 40-F or Form 6-K (§ 249.306 of this chapter).
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (a). A subsidiary issuing debt securities guaranteed by its parent will be
deemed to have met the requirements of this paragraph (a) of this section if the parent's
statements of comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter)
statements satisfy the criteria of this paragraph and information respecting the subsidiary is
included to the same extent as was presented in the registration statement. An “earning
statement” not meeting the requirements of this paragraph (a) of this section may otherwise be
sufficient for purposes of the last paragraph of section 11(a) of the Act.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 230.405 Definitions of terms.
Unless the context otherwise requires, all terms used in §§ 230.400 to 230.494, inclusive, or in
the forms for registration have the same meanings as in the Act and in the general rules and
regulations. In addition, the following definitions apply, unless the context otherwise requires:
***
Significant subsidiary. The term significant subsidiary means a subsidiary, including its
subsidiaries, which meets any of the following conditions:
(1) The registrant's and its other subsidiaries' investments in and advances to the subsidiary
exceed 10 percent of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated as of the
end of the most recently completed fiscal year (for a proposed combination between entities
A-104

under common control business combination to be accounted for as a pooling of interests, this
condition is also met when the number of common shares exchanged or to be exchanged by the
registrant exceeds 10 percent of its total common shares outstanding at the date the combination
is initiated); or
***
(3) The registrant's and its other subsidiaries' equity in the income from continuing operations
before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle of the subsidiary exceeds 10 percent of such income of the registrant and its
subsidiaries consolidated for the most recently completed fiscal year.
See discussion in Sections V.B.11, V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
§ 230.436 Consents required in special cases.
***
(d) The term report on unaudited interim financial information shall mean a report which consists
of the following:
(1) A statement that the review of interim financial information was made in accordance with
established professional standards for such reviews;
(2) An identification of the interim financial information reviewed;
(3) A description of the procedures for a review of interim financial information;
(4) A statement that a review of interim financial information is substantially less in scope than
an audit conducted examination in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States) (“PCAOB”) generally accepted auditing standards,

A-105

the objective of which is an expression of an opinion regarding the financial statements taken as
a whole, and, accordingly, no such opinion is expressed; and
(5) A statement about whether the accountant is aware of any material modifications that should
be made to the accompanying financial information so that it conforms with generally accepted
accounting principles.
See discussion in Section V.B.1 of this release.
PART 239 – FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
§ 239.11 Form S-1, registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933
***
Item 3. Summary Information, and Risk Factors and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
See discussion in Section III.C.18 of this release.
***
Item 12. Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
***
Note to Item 12(b)(1). If the registrant sends any of the information that is incorporated by
reference in the prospectus contained in the registration statement to security holders, it also
must send any exhibits that are specifically incorporated by reference in that information.
(2) The registrant must:
(i) Identify the reports and other information that it files with the SEC; and
(ii) State that the public may read and copy any materials it files with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. State that the public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800A-106

SEC-0330. If the registrant is an electronic filer, sState that the SEC maintains an Internet site
that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers
that file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov).
See discussion in Section IV.B.3.a of this release.
§ 239.13 Form S-3, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain
issuers offered pursuant to certain types of transactions.
***
General Instructions
I. Eligibility Requirements for Use of Form S-3
***
B. Transaction Requirements. Security offerings meeting any of the following conditions and
made by a registrant meeting the Registrant Requirements specified in I.A. above may be
registered on this Form:
***
2. Primary Offerings of Non-Convertible Securities Other than Common Equity. Non-convertible
securities, other than common equity, to be offered for cash by or on behalf of a registrant,
provided the registrant (i) has issued (as of a date within 60 days prior to the filing of the
registration statement) at least $1 billion in non-convertible securities, other than common
equity, in primary offerings for cash, not exchange, registered under the Securities Act, over the
prior three years; or (ii) has outstanding (as of a date within 60 days prior to the filing of the
registration statement) at least $750 million of non-convertible securities, other than common
equity, issued in primary offerings for cash, not exchange, registered under the Securities Act; or
A-107

(iii) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in 17 CFR
230.405); or (iv) is a majority-owned operating partnership of a real estate investment trust that
qualifies as a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in 17 CFR 230.405); or (v) discloses in the
registration statement that it has a reasonable belief that it would have been eligible to use Form
S-3 as of September 1, 2011 because it is registering a primary offering of non-convertible
investment grade securities, discloses the basis for such belief, and files a final prospectus for an
offering pursuant to such registration statement on Form S-3 on or before September 2, 2014.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
Item 3. Summary Information, and Risk Factors and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
See discussion in Section III.C.18 of this release.
***
Item 12. Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
***
(c)
***
(2) You must
(i) identify the reports and other information that you file with the SEC; and
(ii) state that the public may read and copy any materials you file with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. State that the public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800SEC-0330. If you are an electronic filer, sState that the SEC maintains an Internet site that
A-108

contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). You are
encouraged to give Disclose your Internet address, if available.
See discussion in Sections IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
§ 239.18 Form S-11, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of
certain real estate companies.
***
Item 3. Summary Information, and Risk Factors and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
See discussion in Section III.C.18 of this release.
Item 29. Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
If the registrant elects to incorporate information by reference pursuant to General Instruction H:
***
(b)
***
(2) The registrant must:
(i) Identify the reports and other information that it files with the SEC; and
(ii) State that the public may read and copy any materials it files with the SEC at the SEC's
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. State that the public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800SEC-0330. If the registrant is an electronic filer, sState that the SEC maintains an Internet site
that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers
that file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov).
A-109

See discussion in Sections IV.B.3.a of this release.
§ 239.25 Form S-4, for the registration of securities issued in business combination
transactions.
***
Item 3. Risk Factors, Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Other Information.
See discussion in Section III.C.18 of this release.
***
Item 11. Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
***
(c) You must
(1) identify the reports and other information that you file with the SEC; and
(2) state that the public may read and copy any materials you file with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. State that the public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800SEC-0330. If you are an electronic filer, sState that the SEC maintains an Internet site that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). You are
encouraged to give Disclose your Internet address, if available.
See discussion in Sections IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
***
Item 13. Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
***
A-110

(d) You must
(1) identify the reports and other information that you file with the SEC; and
(2) state that the public may read and copy any materials you file with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. State that the public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800SEC-0330. If you are an electronic filer, sState that the SEC maintains an Internet site that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). You are
encouraged to give Disclose your Internet address, if available.
See discussion in Sections IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
§ 239.31 Form F-1, registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 for securities of
certain foreign private issuers.
***
General Instructions
***
II. Application of General Rules and Regulations
C. A registrant must file the Form F-1 registration statement in electronic format via the
Commission's Electronic Data Gathering and Retrieval System (EDGAR) in accordance with the
EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Ppart 232), except that a registrant that has
obtained a hardship exception under Regulation S-T Rule 201 or 202 (17 CFR 232.201 or
232.202) may file the registration statement in paper. For assistance with technical questions
about EDGAR questionsor to request an access code, call the EDGAR Filer Support Office at
A-111

(202) 942551-8900. For assistance with questions about the EDGAR rules, call the Office of
EDGAR and Information Analysis at (202) 942-2940.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
***
Item 3. Summary Information, and Risk Factors and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
See discussion in Section III.C.18 of this release.
***
Item 4. Information with Respect to the Registrant and the Offering.
Furnish the following information with respect to the Registrant.
***
b. Information required by Item 18 of Form 20-F (Schedules required under Regulation S-X shall
be filed as “Financial Statement Schedules Pursuant to Item 8, Exhibit and Financial Statement
Schedules, of this Form), as well as any information required by Rule 3-05 and Article 11 of
Regulation S-X (§ 210 of this chapter), except as permitted by (c) below:;
c. [Reserved.] For the registrant’s fiscal years ending before December 15, 2011, information
required by Item 17 of Form 20-F may be furnished in lieu of the information specified by Item
18 thereof if the only securities being registered are non-convertible securities that are
“investment grade securities,” as defined below, or the only securities to be registered are to be
offered:
1. upon the exercise of outstanding rights granted by the issuer of the securities to be offered, if
such rights are granted on a pro rata basis to all existing security holders of the class of securities

A-112

to which the rights attach and there is no standby underwriting in the United States or similar
arrangement; or
2. pursuant to a dividend or interest reinvestment plan; or
3. upon the conversion of outstanding convertible securities or upon the exercise of outstanding
transferable warrants issued by the issuer of the securities to be offered, or by an affiliate of such
issuer.
(d) For the registrant’s fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2009, iInformation required
by Item 16F of Form 20-F.
Instruction.
***
2. A non-convertible security is an investment grade security if, at the time of sale, at least one
nationally recognized statistical rating organization (as that term is used in Rule 15c31(c)(2)(vi)(F) under the Exchange Act ( §240.15c3-1(c)(2)(vi)(F) of this chapter) has rated the
security in one of its generic rating categories that signifies investment grade; typically, the four
highest rating categories (within which there may be sub-categories or gradations indicating
relative standing) signify investment grade.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
(e) State that the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC and state
the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). Disclose your Internet address, if available.
See discussion in Section IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
***
A-113

Item 4A. Material Changes.
***
(b)1. Include in the prospectus contained in the registration statement, if not included in the
reports filed under the Exchange Act which are incorporated by reference into the prospectus
contained in the registration statement pursuant to Item 5:
***
iii. Restated financial statements where a combination of entities under common control has one
or more business combinations accounted for by the pooling of interest method of accounting
have been consummated subsequent to the most recent fiscal year and the transferred acquired
businesses, considered in the aggregate, are significant under Rule 11-01(b) (§ 210.11-01(b) of
this chapter); or
See discussion in Section V.B.11 of this release.
***
2.
***
Instruction. For the registrant’s fiscal years ending before December 15, 2011, financial
statements or information required to be furnished by this Item shall be reconciled pursuant to
either Item 17 or Item 18 of Form 20-F, whichever is applicable to the primary financial
statements. For the registrant’s fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2011, fFinancial
statements or information required to be furnished by this Item shall be reconciled pursuant to
Item 18 of Form 20-F.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
A-114

Item 5. Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
(b)
***
2. The registrant must:
i. Identify the reports and other information that it files with the SEC; and
ii. State that the public may read and copy any materials it files with the SEC at the SEC’s Public
Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. State that the public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC0330. If the registrant is an electronic filer, sState that the SEC maintains an Internet site that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov).
See discussion in Section IV.B.3.a of this release.
§ 239.33 Form F-3, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain
foreign private issuers offered pursuant to certain types of transactions.
***
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
I. Eligibility Requirements for Use of Form F-3
***
B. Transaction Requirements
2. Primary Offerings of Non-Convertible Securities Other than Common Equity. Nonconvertible securities, other than common equity, to be offered for cash by or on behalf of a
registrant, provided the registrant (i) has issued (as of a date within 60 days prior to the filing of
A-115

the registration statement) at least $1 billion in non-convertible securities, other than common
equity, in primary offerings for cash, not exchange, registered under the Securities Act, over the
prior three years; or (ii) has outstanding (as of a date within 60 days prior to the filing of the
registration statement) at least $750 million of non-convertible securities, other than common
equity, issued in primary offerings for cash, not exchange, registered under the Securities Act; or
(iii) is a wholly-owned subsidiary of a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in 17 CFR
230.405); or (iv) is a majority-owned operating partnership of a real estate investment trust that
qualifies as a well-known seasoned issuer (as defined in 17 CFR 230.405); or (v) discloses in the
registration statement that it has a reasonable belief that it would have been eligible to use Form
F-3 as of September 1, 2011 because it is registering a primary offering of non-convertible
investment grade securities, discloses the basis for such belief, and files a final prospectus for an
offering pursuant to such registration statement on Form F-3 on or before September 2, 2014.
***
3. Transactions Involving Secondary Offerings. Outstanding securities to be offered for the
account of any person other than the issuer, including securities acquired by standby
underwriters in connection with the call or redemption by the issuer of warrants or a class of
convertible securities. In the case of such securities, the financial statements included in this
registration statement may comply with Item 17 or 18 of Form 20-F for a registrant’s fiscal years
ending before December 15, 2011; and for the registrant’s fiscal years ending on or after
December 15, 2011, tThe financial statements included in this registration statement must
comply with Item 18 of Form 20-F. In addition, Form F-3 may be used by affiliates to register
securities for resale pursuant to the conditions specified in General Instruction C to Form S-8 (§
A-116

239.16b of this chapter). In the case of such securities, the financial statements included in this
registration statement must comply with Item 18 of Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter).
4. Rights Offerings, Dividend or Interest Reinvestment Plans, and Conversions or Warrants.
Securities to be offered: (a) upon the exercise of outstanding rights granted by the issuer of the
securities to be offered, if such rights are granted pro rata to all existing security holders of the
class of securities to which the rights attach; or (b) pursuant to a dividend or interest
reinvestment plan; or (c) upon the conversion of outstanding convertible securities or upon the
exercise of outstanding transferable warrants issued by the issuer of the securities to be offered,
or by an affiliate of such issuer. In the case of securities registered pursuant to this paragraph, the
financial statements included in this registration statement may comply with Item 17 or 18 of
Form 20-F for the registrant’s fiscal years ending before December 15, 2011; and for the
registrant’s fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2011, tThe financial statements
included in this registration statement must comply with Item 18 of Form 20-F. The registration
of securities to be offered or sold in a standby underwriting in the United States or similar
arrangement is not permitted pursuant to this paragraph. See paragraphs B.1., B.2., and B.3. of
this Instruction.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
II. Application of General Rules and Regulations
***
D. A registrant must file the Form F-3 registration statement in electronic format via the
Commission's Electronic Data Gathering and Retrieval System (EDGAR) in accordance with the
EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Ppart 232), except that a registrant that has
A-117

obtained a hardship exception under Regulation S-T Rule 201 or 202 (17 CFR 232.201 or
232.202) may file the registration statement in paper. For assistance with technical questions
about EDGAR questionsor to request an access code, call the EDGAR Filer Support Office at
(202) 551-8900. For assistance with questions about the EDGAR rules, call the Office of
EDGAR and Information Analysis at (202) 551-3610.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
***
PART I – INFORMATION REQUIRED IN PROSPECTUS
***`
Item 3. Summary Information, and Risk Factors and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
See discussion in Section III.C.18 of this release.
***
Item 5. Material Changes
***
Instructions
1. For a registrant’s fiscal years ending before December 15, 2011, financial statements or
information required to be furnished by this Item shall be reconciled pursuant to either Item 17 or
18 of Form 20-F, whichever is applicable to the primary financial statements. For a registrant’s
fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2011, fFinancial statements or information required
to be furnished by this Item shall be reconciled pursuant to Item 18 of Form 20-F.
2. Material changes to be disclosed pursuant to Item 5(a) include changes in and disagreements
with registrant’s certifying accountant. For the registrant’s fiscal years ending on or after
A-118

December 15, 2009, dDisclosure pursuant to Item 16F of Form 20-F should be provided as of the
date of the registration statement or prospectus.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
Item 6. Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
***
(e) You must
(1) identify the reports and other information that you file with the SEC; and
(2) state that the public may read and copy any materials you file with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. State that the public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800SEC-0330. If you are an electronic filer, state that the SEC maintains an Internet site that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). You are
encouraged to give Disclose your Internet address, if available.
See discussion in Sections IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
§ 239.34 Form F-4, for registration of securities of foreign private issuers issued in certain
business combination transactions.
***
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
***
D. Application of General Rules and Regulations.

A-119

***
4. A registrant must file the Form F-4 registration statement in electronic format via the
Commission's Electronic Data Gathering and Retrieval System (EDGAR) in accordance with the
EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Ppart 232), except that a registrant that has
obtained a hardship exception under Regulation S-T Rule 201 or 202 (17 CFR 232.201 or
232.202) may file the registration statement in paper. For assistance with technical questions
about EDGAR questionsor to request an access code, call the EDGAR Filer Support Office at
(202) 551-8900. For assistance with questions about the EDGAR rules, call the Office of
EDGAR and Information Analysis at (202) 551-3610.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
***
Item 3. Risk Factors, Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Other Information.
***
Instructions to paragraphs (e) and (f).
1. For a business combination accounted for as a purchase, the financial information required by
paragraphs (e) and (f) shall be presented only for the most recent fiscal year and interim period.
For a combination of entities under common control business combination accounted for as a
pooling, the financial information required by paragraphs (e) and (f) (except for information with
regard to book value) shall be presented for the most recent three fiscal years and interim period.
For a combination of entities under common control business combination accounted for as a
pooling, information with regard to book value shall be presented as of the end of the most recent
fiscal year and interim period. Equivalent pro forma per share amounts shall be calculated by
A-120

multiplying the pro forma income (loss) per share before non-recurring charges or credits
directly attributable to the transaction, pro forma book value per share, and the pro forma
dividends per share of the registrant by the exchange ratio so that the per share amounts are
equated to the respective values for one share of the company being acquired.
See discussion in Sections III.C.18 and V.B.11 of this release.
***
Item 10. Information With Respect to F-3 Companies.
If the registrant meets the requirements for use of Form F-3 and elects to furnish information in
accordance with the provisions of this Item, furnish information as required below:
***
(c) Include in the prospectus, if not incorporated by reference from the documents filed under
the Exchange Act specified in Item 11 of this Form, from a prospectus previously filed pursuant
to Rule 424(b) or (c) under the Securities Act (§ 230.424 of this chapter) or, where no prospectus
was required to be filed pursuant to Rule 424(b), the prospectus included in the registration
statement at effectiveness, or from a Form 6-K filed during either of the two preceding fiscal
years:
***
(3) Restated financial statements prepared in accordance with or, if prepared using a basis of
accounting other than IFRS as issued by the IASB, reconciled to U.S. GAAP and Regulation S-X
where one or more business combinations accounted for by the pooling of interest method of
accounting as combinations of entities under common control have been consummated
subsequent to the most recent fiscal year and the acquired transferred businesses, considered in
A-121

the aggregate, are significant pursuant to Rule 11-01(b) of Regulation S-X (§ 210.11-01(b) of
this chapter); or
See discussion in Section V.B.11 of this release.
***
Item 11. Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
(a)
***
Instructions
1. For the registrant’s fiscal years ending before December 15, 2011, all annual reports or
registration statements incorporated by reference pursuant to Item 11 of this Form shall contain
financial statements that comply with Item 18 of Form 20-F, except that financial statements of
the registrants may comply with Item 17 of Form 20-F if the only securities being registered are
investment grade securities as defined in the General Instructions to Form F-3. For the
registrant’s fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2011, aAll annual reports or registration
statements incorporated by reference pursuant to Item 11 of this Form shall contain financial
statements that comply with Item 18 of Form 20-F.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
(b)
***
(c) You must
(1) identify the reports and other information that you file with the SEC; and
A-122

(2) state that the public may read and copy any materials you file with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. State that the public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800SEC-0330. If you are an electronic filer, state that the SEC maintains an Internet site that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). You are
encouraged to give Disclose your Internet address, if available.
See discussion in Sections IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
***
Item 12. Information With Respect to F-3 Registrants.
If the registrant meets the requirements for use of Form F-3 or Form S-3 and elects to comply
with this Item, furnish the information required by either paragraph (a) or (b) of this Item.
However, the registrant shall not provide prospectus information in the manner allowed by
paragraph (a) of this Item if the financial statements incorporated by reference pursuant to Item
13 reflect: (1) restated financial statements prepared in accordance with or reconciled to U.S.
GAAP and Regulation S-X if there has been a change in accounting principles or a correction of
an error where such change or correction requires a material retroactive restatement of financial
statements; (2) restated financial statements prepared in accordance with or reconciled to U.S.
GAAP and Regulation S-X where a combination of entities under common control has one or
more business combinations accounted for by the pooling of interest method of accounting have
been consummated subsequent to the most recent fiscal year and the acquired transferred
businesses, considered in the aggregate, are significant pursuant to Rule 11-01(b) of Regulation
A-123

S-X; or (3) any financial information required because of a material disposition of assets outside
of the normal course of business.
See discussion in Section V.B.11 of this release.
***
(b) If the registrant elects not to deliver its annual report incorporated by reference pursuant to
Item 13 to the securityholders of the company to be acquired:
***
(2) For the registrant's fiscal years ending before December 15, 2011, include financial
statements and information as required by Item 18 of Form 20-F, except that financial statements
of the registrant may comply with Item 17 of Form 20-F if the only securities being registered
are investment grade securities as defined in the General Instructions to Form F-3. For the
registrant's fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2011, iInclude financial statements and
information as required by Item 18 of Form 20-F. In addition, provide:
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
(iv) Restated financial statements prepared in accordance with or, if prepared using a basis of
accounting other than IFRS as issued by the IASB, reconciled to U.S. GAAP and Regulation S-X
where a combination of entities under common control has one or more business combinations
accounted for by the pooling of interest method of accounting have been consummated
subsequent to the most recent fiscal year and the acquired transferred businesses, considered in
the aggregate, are significant pursuant to Rule 11-01(b) of Regulation S-X; and
See discussion in Section V.B.11 of this release.
A-124

***
(3) Furnish the information required by the following:
***
(vii) For the registrant’s fiscal years ending before December 15, 2011, financial statements
required by Item 18 of Form 20-F, except that financial statements of the registrant may comply
with Item 17 of Form 20-F if the only securities being registered are investment grade securities
as defined in the General Instructions to Form F-3, and financial information required by Rule 305 and Article 11 of Regulation S-X with respect to transactions other than that pursuant to
which the securities being registered are to be issued. (Schedules required under Regulation S-X
shall be filed as “Financial Statement Schedules” pursuant to Item 21 of this Form, but need not
be provided with respect to the company being acquired if information is being furnished
pursuant to Item 17(a) of this Form.) For the registrant’s fiscal years ending on or after
December 15, 2011, fFinancial statements required by Item 18 of Form 20-F, and financial
information required by Rule 3-05 and Article 11 of Regulation S-X with respect to transactions
other than that pursuant to which the securities being registered are to be issued;
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
(ix) For the registrant’s fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2009, Item 16F of Form 20F, change in registrant’s certifying accountant.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
Item 13. Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
A-125

***
(b)
***
Instructions
1. For the registrant’s fiscal years ending before December 15, 2011, all annual reports
incorporated by reference pursuant to Item13 of this Form shall contain financial statements that
comply with Item 18 of Form 20-F, except that financial statements of the registrants may
comply with Item 17 of Form 20-F if the only securities being registered are investment grade
securities as defined in the General Instructions to Form F-3. For the registrant’s fiscal years
ending on or after December 15, 2011, aAll annual reports incorporated by reference pursuant to
Item 13 of this Form shall contain financial statements that comply with Item 18 of Form 20-F.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
(c) You must
(1) identify the reports and other information that you file with the SEC; and
(2) state that the public may read and copy any materials you file with the SEC at the SEC’s
Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549. State that the public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800SEC-0330. If you are an electronic filer, sState that the SEC maintains an Internet site that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). You are
encouraged to give Disclose your Internet address, if available.
A-126

See discussion in Sections IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
***
Item 14. Information With Respect to Registrants Other Than F-3 Registrants
***
(h) For the registrant’s fiscal years ending before December 15, 2011, financial statements
required by Item 18 of Form 20F, except that financial statements of the registrants may comply
with Item 17 of Form 20-F if the only securities being registered are investment grade securities
as defined in the General Instructions to Form F-1; and for the registrant’s fiscal years ending on
or after December 15, 2011, fFinancial statements required by Item 18 of Form 20-F. In addition,
financial information required by Rule 3-05 and Article 11 of Regulation S-X with respect to
transactions other than that pursuant to which the securities being registered are to be issued.
(Schedules required by Regulation S-X shall be filed as “Financial Statement Schedules”
pursuant to Item 21 of this Form.);
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
(j) For the registrant’s fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2009, Item 16F of Form 20F, change in registrant’s certifying accountant.
***
§ 239.36 Form F-6, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of depositary shares
evidenced by American Depositary Receipts.
***
III. Application of General Rules and Regulations
A-127

***
C. You must file the Form F-6 registration statement in electronic format via the Commission's
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system in accordance with the
EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232). For assistance with technical
questions about EDGAR questions or to request an access code, call the EDGAR Filer Support
Office at (202) 942551-8900. For assistance with the EDGAR rules, call the Office of EDGAR
and Information Analysis at (202) 942-2940.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
§ 239.37 Form F-7, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain
Canadian issuers offered for cash upon the exercise of rights granted to existing
securityholders.
***
II. Application of General Rules and Regulations
***
C. A registrant must file the registration statement in electronic format via the Commission's
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system in accordance with the
EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232). For assistance with technical
questions about EDGAR questionsor to request an access code, call the EDGAR Filer Support
Office at (202) 551942-8900. For assistance with the EDGAR rules, call the Office of EDGAR
and Information Analysis at (202) 942-2940.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this proposing release.

A-128

§ 239.38 Form F-8, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of certain
Canadian issuers to be issued in exchange offers or a business combination.
***
IV. Application of General Rules and Regulations
***
C. A registrant must file the registration statement in electronic format via the Commission's
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system in accordance with the
EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232). For assistance with technical
questions about EDGAR questionsor to request an access code, call the EDGAR Filer Support
Office at (202) 551-8900. For assistance with the EDGAR rules, call the Office of EDGAR and
Information Analysis at (202) 551-3610.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this proposing release.
§ 239.40 Form F-10, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of
certain Canadian issuers.
***
II. Application of General Rules and Regulations
***
D. A registrant must file the registration statement in electronic format via the Commission's
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system in accordance with the
EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232). For assistance with technical
questions about EDGAR questionsor to request an access code, call the EDGAR Filer Support

A-129

Office at (202) 551-8900. For assistance with the EDGAR rules, call the Office of EDGAR and
Information Analysis at (202) 551-3610.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this proposing release.
§ 239.41 Form F-80, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 of securities of
certain Canadian issuers to be issued in exchange offers or a business combination.
***
IV. Application of General Rules and Regulations
***
C. A registrant must file the registration statement in electronic format via the Commission's
Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system in accordance with the
EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232). For assistance with technical
questions about EDGAR questionsor to request an access code, call the EDGAR Filer Support
Office at (202) 551-8900. For assistance with the EDGAR rules, call the Office of EDGAR and
Information Analysis at (202) 551-3610.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this proposing release.
§ 239.44 Form SF-1, registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 for offerings
of asset-backed securities.
***
Item 10. Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
***
(b)(2) You must:
(i) Identify the reports and other information that you file with the SEC.
A-130

(ii) State that any materials you file with the SEC will be available for Web site viewing and
printing in the Commission's Public Reference Room, 100 F Street NE., Washington, DC 20549,
on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. State that the public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800SEC-0330. If you are an electronic filer, sState that the SEC maintains an Internet site that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). You are
encouraged to give Disclose your Internet address (or address of the specified transaction party
where such information is posted), if available.
See discussion in Sections IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
§ 239.45 Form SF-3, for registration under the Securities Act of 1933 for offerings of
asset-backed issuers offered pursuant to certain types of transactions.
***
Item 10. Incorporation of Certain Information by Reference.
***
(e)(1) ***
(2) You must:
(i) Identify the reports and other information that you file with the SEC.
(ii) State that any materials you file with the SEC will be available for Web site viewing and
printing in the Commission's Public Reference Room, 100 F Street NE., Washington, DC 20549,
on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. State that the public may
obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800A-131

SEC-0330. If you are an electronic filer, sState that the SEC maintains an Internet site that
contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that
file electronically with the SEC and state the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). You are
encouraged to give Disclose your Internet address (or address of the specified transaction party
where such information is posted), if available.
See discussion in Sections IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
§ 239.90 Form 1-A, offering statement under Regulation A.
PART I—NOTIFICATION
Financial Statements
***
[If “Other” is selected, display the following options in the Financial Statements table:]
***
Income Statement of Comprehensive Income Information
***
[If “Banking” is selected, display the following options in the Financial Statements table:]
***
Income Statement of Comprehensive Income Information
***
[If “Insurance” is selected, display the following options in the Financial Statements table:]
***
Income Statement of Comprehensive Income Information
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
A-132

***
PART II — INFORMATION REQUIRED IN OFFERING CIRCULAR
Item 7. Description of Business
(a) Narrative description of business.
(1) Describe the business done and intended to be done by the issuer and its subsidiaries and the
general development of the business during the past three years or such shorter period as the
issuer may have been in business. Such description must include, but not be limited to, a
discussion of the following factors if such factors are material to an understanding of the issuer’s
business:
***
(iii) If material, the estimated amount spent during each of the last two fiscal years on companysponsored research and development activities determined in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. In addition, state, if material, the estimated dollar amount spent during
each of such years on material customer-sponsored research activities relating to the
development of new products, services or techniques or the improvement of existing products,
services or techniques.[Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.14.c of this release.
***
(b) Segment Data. If the issuer is required by generally accepted accounting principles to include
segment information in its financial statements, an appropriate cross-reference must be included
in the description of business. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.11 of this release.
A-133

***
Item 9. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations
***
3. When interim period financial statements are included, discuss any material changes in
financial condition from the end of the preceding fiscal year to the date of the most recent
interim balance sheet provided. Discuss any material changes in the issuer’s results of operations
with respect to the most recent fiscal year-to-date period for which an statement of
comprehensive income (or statement of net income if comprehensive income is presented in two
separate but consecutive financial statements or if no other comprehensive income)statement is
provided and the corresponding year-to-date period of the preceding fiscal year.
Part F/S
***
(b) Financial Statements for Tier 1 Offerings
(4) Statements of comprehensive income, cash flows, and changes in stockholders’ equity. File
consolidated statements of comprehensive income (either in a single continuous financial
statement or in two separate but consecutive financial statements; or a statement of net income if
there was no other comprehensive income), cash flows, and changes in stockholders’ equity for
each of the two fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent balance sheet being filed or
such shorter period as the issuer has been in existence. If a consolidated interim balance sheet is
required by (b)(3) above, consolidated interim statements of income and cash flows shall be

A-134

provided and must cover at least the first six months of the issuer’s fiscal year and the
corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year.
(5) Interim financial statements.
(i) If a consolidated interim balance sheet is required by (b)(3) of Part F/S, consolidated interim
statements of comprehensive income (either in a single continuous financial statement or in two
separate but consecutive financial statements; or a statement of net income if there was no other
comprehensive income) and cash flows shall be provided and must cover at least the first six
months of the issuer’s fiscal year and the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year. An
analysis of the changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance sheets
must be provided in a note or separate statement. This analysis shall be presented in the form of
a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance for each period for which a
statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed with all significant reconciling items
described by appropriate captions with contributions from and distributions to owners shown
separately. Dividends per share for each class of shares shall also be provided.
(ii) Interim financial statements of issuers that report under U.S. GAAP may be condensed as
described in Rule 8-03(a) of Regulation S-X.
(iii) The interim income statements of comprehensive income for all issuers must be
accompanied by a statement that in the opinion of management all adjustments necessary in
order to make the interim financial statements not misleading have been included.
See discussion in Sections V.B.5, V.B.12, and V.B.17 of this release.
***
(c) Financial Statement Requirements for Tier 2 Offerings
A-135

(1) In addition to the general rules in paragraph (a), provide the financial statements required by
paragraph (b) of this Part F/S, except the following rules should be followed in the preparation of
the financial statements:
(i) The iIssuers that report under U.S. GAAP and, when applicable, other entities for which
financial statements are required, must comply with Article 8 of Regulation S-X, as if it was they
were conducting a registered offering on Form S-1, except the age of interim financial statements
may follow paragraphs (b)(3)-(4) of this Part F/S.
See discussion in Section V.B.17 and V.B.18 of this release.
§ 239.91 Form 1-K.
***
PART II
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
***
Item 7. Financial Statements
***
(e) Statements of comprehensive income, cash flows, and changes in stockholders’ equity. File
audited consolidated statements of comprehensive income (either in a single continuous financial
statement or in two separate but consecutive financial statements; or a statement of net income if
there was no other comprehensive income), cash flows, and changes in stockholders’ equity for
each of the two fiscal years preceding the date of the most recent balance sheet being filed or
such shorter period as the issuer has been in existence.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
A-136

§ 239.92 Form 1-SA
***
INFORMATION TO BE INCLUDED IN REPORT
***
Item 3. Financial Statements
***
The financial statements included pursuant to this item may be condensed, unaudited, and are not
required to be reviewed. For additional guidance on presentation of the financial statements,
issuers that report under U.S. GAAP should refer to Rule 8-03(a) of Regulation S-X. The
financial statements for all issuers must include the following:
***

(b) Interim consolidated statements of comprehensive income (either in a single continuous
financial statement or in two separate but consecutive financial statements; or a statement of net
income if there was no other comprehensive income) must be provided for the six month interim
period covered by this report and for the corresponding period of the preceding fiscal year.
Statements of comprehensive Iincome statements must be accompanied by a statement that in the
opinion of management all adjustments necessary in order to make the interim financial
statements not misleading have been included.
See discussion in Sections V.B.12 and V.B.17 of this release.
***
(d) An analysis of the changes in each caption of stockholders' equity presented in the balance
sheets must be provided in a note or separate statement. This analysis shall be presented in the
form of a reconciliation of the beginning balance to the ending balance for each period for which
A-137

a statement of comprehensive income is required to be filed with all significant reconciling items
described by appropriate captions with contributions from and distributions to owners shown
separately. Dividends per share for each class of shares shall also be provided.
(de) Footnote and other disclosures should be provided as needed for fair presentation and to
ensure that the financial statements are not misleading. Issuers that report under U.S. GAAP
should rRefer to Rule 8-03(b) of Regulation S-X for examples of disclosures that may be needed.
(ef) Financial Statements of Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities. Financial
statements of a subsidiary that issues securities guaranteed by the parent or guarantees securities
issued by the parent must be presented as required by Rule 3-10 of Regulation S-X, except that
the periods presented are those required by this item and the financial statements need not be
audited.
See discussion in Section V.B.5 and V.B.17 of this release.
PART 240—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934
§ 240.3a51-1 Definition of “penny stock”.
For purposes of section 3(a)(51) of the Act, the term “penny stock” shall mean any equity
security other than a security:
(a) That is an NMS stock, as defined in § 242.600(b)(47), provided that:
***
(2) The security is registered, or approved for registration upon notice of issuance, on a national
securities exchange, or is listed, or approved for listing upon notice of issuance on, an automated
quotation system sponsored by a registered national securities association, that:
A-138

(i) Has established initial listing standards that meet or exceed the following criteria:
(A) The issuer shall have:
***
(3) Net income of $750,000 (excluding extraordinary or non-recurring items) in the most
recently completed fiscal year or in two of the last three most recently completed fiscal years;
See discussion in Section V.B.13 of this release.
§ 240.10A-1 Notice to the Commission Pursuant to Section 10A of the Act.
***
(b)
***
(3) Submission of the report (or documentation) by the independent accountant as described in
paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section shall not replace, or otherwise satisfy the need for, the
newly engaged and former accountants' letters under Items 304(a)(2)(D) and 304(a)(3) of
Regulation S-K, §§ 229.304(a)(2)(D) and 229.304(a)(3) of this chapter, respectively, and shall
not limit, reduce, or affect in any way the independent accountant's obligations to comply fully
with all other legal and professional responsibilities, including, without limitation, those under
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board generally accepted auditing
standards and the rules or interpretations of the Commission that modify or supplement those
auditing standards.
See discussion in Section V.B.1 of this release.
§ 240.12b-2 Definitions.

A-139

Unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms, when used in the rules contained in
this regulation or in Regulation 13A or 15D or in the forms for statements and reports filed
pursuant to sections 12, 13 or 15(d) of the act, shall have the respective meanings indicated in
this rule:
***
Significant subsidiary. The term significant subsidiary means a subsidiary, including its
subsidiaries, which meets any of the following conditions:
***
(3) The registrant's and its other subsidiaries' equity in the income from continuing operations
before income taxes, extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle of the subsidiary exclusive of amounts attributable to any noncontrolling interests
exceeds 10 percent of such income of the registrant and its subsidiaries consolidated for the most
recently completed fiscal year.
Computational note to paragraph (3):
***
See discussion in Sections V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
§ 240.13a-10 Transition reports.
***
(b) The report pursuant to this section shall be filed for the transition period not more than the
number of days specified in paragraph (j) of this section after either the close of the transition
period or the date of the determination to change the fiscal closing date, whichever is later. The
report shall be filed on the form appropriate for annual reports of the issuer, shall cover the
A-140

period from the close of the last fiscal year end and shall indicate clearly the period covered. The
financial statements for the transition period filed therewith shall be audited. Financial
statements, which may be unaudited, shall be filed for the comparable period of the prior year, or
a footnote, which may be unaudited, shall state for the comparable period of the prior year,
revenues, gross profits, income taxes, income or loss from continuing operations before
extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles and net income or
loss. The effects of any discontinued operations and/or extraordinary items as classified under
the provisions of generally accepted accounting principles also shall be shown, if applicable. Per
share data based upon such income or loss and net income or loss shall be presented in
conformity with applicable accounting standards. Where called for by the time span to be
covered, the comparable period financial statements or footnote shall be included in subsequent
filings.
See discussion in Sections V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
***
(g)
***
(3) The report for the transition period shall be filed on Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter)
responding to all items to which such issuer is required to respond when Form 20-F is used as an
annual report. The financial statements for the transition period filed therewith shall be audited.
The report shall be filed within the following period:

A-141

(i) Within six months after either the close of the transition period or the date on which the issuer
made the determination to change the fiscal closing date, whichever is later, for new fiscal years
ending before December 15, 2011; and
(ii) Within four months after either the close of the transition period or the date on which the
issuer made the determination to change the fiscal closing date, whichever is later, for new fiscal
years ending on or after December 15, 2011.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
§ 240.13b2-2 Representations and conduct in connection with the preparation of required
reports and documents.
***
(b)
***
(2) For purposes of paragraphs (b)(1) and (c)(2) of this section, actions that, "if successful, could
result in rendering the issuer's financial statements materially misleading" include, but are not
limited to, actions taken at any time with respect to the professional engagement period to
coerce, manipulate, mislead, or fraudulently influence an auditor:
(i) To issue or reissue a report on an issuer's financial statements that is not warranted in the
circumstances (due to material violations of generally accepted accounting principles, generally
accepted auditing standards, the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board,
or other professional or regulatory standards);
(ii) Not to perform audit, review or other procedures required by the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board generally accepted auditing standards or other
professional standards;
A-142

(iii) Not to withdraw an issued report; or
(iv) Not to communicate matters to an issuer's audit committee.
See discussion in Section V.B.1 of this release.
§ 240.14a-101 Schedule 14A. Information required in proxy statement.
***
Item 10. Compensation Plans.
***
(c) Information regarding plans and other arrangements not subject to security holder action.
Furnish the information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K (§229.201(d) of this chapter).
Instructions to paragraph (c). 1. If action is to be taken as described in paragraph (a) of this Item
with respect to the approval of a new compensation plan under which equity securities of the
registrant are authorized for issuance, information about the plan shall be disclosed as required
under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Item and shall not be included in the disclosure required by
Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K (§229.201(d) of this chapter). If action is to be taken as described
in paragraph (a) of this Item with respect to the amendment or modification of an existing plan
under which equity securities of the registrant are authorized for issuance, the registrant shall
include information about securities previously authorized for issuance under the plan (including
any outstanding options, warrants and rights previously granted pursuant to the plan and any
securities remaining available for future issuance under the plan) in the disclosure required by
Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K (§229.201(d) of this chapter). Any additional securities that are
the subject of the amendments or modification of the existing plan shall be disclosed as required
under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Item and shall not be included in the Item 201(d) disclosure.
A-143

Instructions to Item 10
***
See discussion in Section III.C.17 of this release.
§ 240.15c3-1g Conditions for ultimate holding companies of certain brokers or dealers
(Appendix G to 17 CFR 240.15c3-1).
As a condition for a broker or dealer to compute certain of its deductions to capital in accordance
with § 240.15c3-1e, pursuant to its undertaking, the ultimate holding company of the broker or
dealer shall:
***
Conditions Regarding Reporting Requirements
(b) File reports with the Commission in accordance with the following:
(1) If it is not an ultimate holding company that has a principal regulator, as that term is defined
in § 240.15c3-1(c)(13), the ultimate holding company shall file with the Commission:
(i) A report as of the end of each month, filed not later than 30 calendar days after the end of the
month. A monthly report need not be filed for a month-end that coincides with a fiscal quarterend. The monthly report shall include:
(A) A consolidated balance sheet and income statement (including notes to the financial
statements) for the ultimate holding company and statements of allowable capital and allowances
for market, credit, and operational risk computed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this appendix G
section, except that the consolidated balance sheet and income statement for the first month of
the fiscal year may be filed at a later time to which the Commission agrees (when reviewing the
affiliated broker's or dealer's application under § 240.15c3-1e(a)). A statement of comprehensive
A-144

income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter) shall be included in place of
an income statement, if required by the applicable generally accepted accounting principles.
***
(ii) A quarterly report as of the end of each fiscal quarter, filed not later than 35 calendar days
after the end of the quarter. The quarterly report shall include, in addition to the information
contained in the monthly report as required by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this appendix G, the
following:
(A) Consolidating balance sheets and income statements for the ultimate holding company. The
consolidating balance sheet must provide information regarding each material affiliate of the
ultimate holding company in a separate column, but may aggregate information regarding
members of the affiliate group that are not material affiliates into one column;. Statements of
comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter) shall be
included in place of an income statement, if required by the applicable generally accepted
accounting principles;
***
(E) For a quarter-end that coincides with the ultimate holding company's fiscal year-end, the
ultimate holding company need not include consolidated and consolidating balance sheets and
income statements (or statements of comprehensive income, as applicable) in its quarterly
reports. The consolidating balance sheet and income statement (or statement of comprehensive
income, as applicable) for the quarter-end that coincides with the fiscal year-end may be filed at
a later time to which the Commission agrees (when reviewing the affiliated broker's or dealer's
application under § 240.15c3-1e(a));
A-145

***
(2) If the ultimate holding company is an entity that has a principal regulator, as that term is
defined in § 240.15c3-1(c)(13), the ultimate holding company must file with the Commission:
(i) A quarterly report as of the end of each fiscal quarter, filed not later than 35 calendar days
after the end of the quarter, or a later time to which the Commission may agree upon application.
The quarterly report shall include:
(A) Consolidated (including notes to the financial statements) and consolidating balance
sheets and income statements for the ultimate holding company. Statements of
comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter) shall be
included in place of income statements, if required by the applicable generally accepted
accounting principles;
***
(D) For a quarter-end that coincides with the ultimate holding company's fiscal year-end, the
ultimate holding company need not include consolidated and consolidating balance sheets and
income statements (or statements of comprehensive income, as applicable) in its quarterly
reports. The consolidating balance sheet and income statement (or statement of comprehensive
income, as applicable) for the quarter-end that coincides with the fiscal year-end may be filed at
a later time to which the Commission agrees (when reviewing the affiliated broker's or dealer's
application under § 240.15c3-1e(a)).
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 240.15d-2 Special financial report.

A-146

(a) If the registration statement under the Securities Act of 1933 did not contain certified
financial statements for the registrant's last full fiscal year (or for the life of the registrant if less
than a full fiscal year) preceding the fiscal year in which the registration statement became
effective, the registrant shall, within 90 days after the effective date of the registration statement,
file a special report furnishing certified financial statements for such last full fiscal year or other
period, as the case may be, meeting the requirements of the form appropriate for annual reports
of the registrant. If the registrant is a foreign private issuer as defined in § 230.405 of this
chapter, then the special financial report shall be filed on the appropriate form for annual reports
of the registrant and shall be filed within the following period:
(1) By the later of 90 days after the date on which the registration statement became effective, or
six months following the end of the registrant's full fiscal year, for fiscal years ending before
December 15, 2011; and
(2) Bby the later of 90 days after the date on which the registration statement became effective,
or four months following the end of the registrant's latest full fiscal year, for fiscal years ending
on or after December 15, 2011.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
§ 240.15d-10 Transition reports.
***
(b) The report pursuant to this section shall be filed for the transition period not more than the
number of days specified in paragraph (j) of this section after either the close of the transition
period or the date of the determination to change the fiscal closing date, whichever is later. The
report shall be filed on the form appropriate for annual reports of the issuer, shall cover the

A-147

period from the close of the last fiscal year end and shall indicate clearly the period covered. The
financial statements for the transition period filed therewith shall be audited. Financial
statements, which may be unaudited, shall be filed for the comparable period of the prior year, or
a footnote, which may be unaudited, shall state for the comparable period of the prior year,
revenues, gross profits, income taxes, income or loss from continuing operations before
extraordinary items and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principles and net income or
loss. The effects of any discontinued operations and/or extraordinary items as classified under
the provisions of generally accepted accounting principles also shall be shown, if applicable. Per
share data based upon such income or loss and net income or loss shall be presented in
conformity with applicable accounting standards. Where called for by the time span to be
covered, the comparable period financial statements or footnote shall be included in subsequent
filings.
See discussion in Sections V.B.13 and V.B.14 of this release.
***
(g) ***
(3) The report for the transition period shall be filed on Form 20-F (§ 249.220f of this chapter)
responding to all items to which such issuer is required to respond when Form 20-F is used as an
annual report. The financial statements for the transition period filed therewith shall be audited.
The report shall be filed within the following period:
(i) Within six months after either the close of the transition period or the date on which the issuer
made the determination to change the fiscal closing date, whichever is later, for new fiscal years
ending before December 15, 2011; and
A-148

(ii) Within four months after either the close of the transition period or the date on which the
issuer made the determination to change the fiscal closing date, whichever is later, for new fiscal
years ending on or after December 15, 2011.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
§ 240.17a-5 Reports to be made by certain brokers and dealers.
***
(d) Annual reports. (1)(i) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii) and (d)(1)(iv) of this
section, every broker or dealer registered under section 15 of the Act must file annually:
***
(2) Financial report. The financial report must contain:
(i) A Statement of Financial Condition, a Statement of Income, a Statement of Cash Flows, a
Statement of Changes in Stockholders' or Partners' or Sole Proprietor's Equity, and a Statement
of Changes in Liabilities Subordinated to Claims of General Creditors. The statements must be
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and must be in a
format that is consistent with the statements contained in Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this
chapter) Part II or Part IIA. If the Statement of Financial Condition filed in accordance with
instructions to Form X-17A-5, Part II or Part IIA, is not consolidated, a summary of financial
data, including the assets, liabilities, and net worth or stockholders' equity, for subsidiaries not
consolidated in the Part II or Part IIA Statement of Financial Condition as filed by the broker or
dealer must be included in the notes to the financial statements reported on by the independent
public accountant.

A-149

NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (d)(2)(i). If there is other comprehensive income in the period(s)
presented, the financial report must contain a Statement of Comprehensive Income (as defined in
§ 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter) in place of a Statement of Income.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 240.17a-12 Reports to be made by certain OTC derivatives dealers.
***
(b) Annual filing of audited financial statements.
***
(2) The annual audit report shall contain a Statement of Financial Condition (in a format and
on a basis which is consistent with the total reported on the Statement of Financial Condition
contained in Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), Part IIB, a Statement of Income, a
Statement of Cash Flows, a Statement of Changes in Stockholders' or Partners' or Sole
Proprietor's Equity, and a Statement of Changes in Liabilities Subordinated to Claims of
General Creditors. Such statements shall be in a format which is consistent with such
statements as contained in Form X-17A-5 (§ 249.617 of this chapter), Part IIB. If the
Statement of Financial Condition filed in accordance with instructions to Form X-17A-5 (§
249.617 of this chapter), Part IIB, is not consolidated, a summary of financial data for
subsidiaries not consolidated in the Part IIB Statement of Financial Condition as filed by the
OTC derivatives dealer shall be included in the notes to the consolidated statement of
financial condition reported on by the certified public accountant. The summary financial
data shall include the assets, liabilities, and net worth or stockholders' equity of the
unconsolidated subsidiaries.
A-150

NOTE

TO PARAGRAPH

(b)(2). If there is other comprehensive income in the period(s)

presented, the financial report must contain a Statement of Comprehensive Income (as
defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter) in place of a Statement of Income.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 240.17g-3 Annual financial and other reports to be filed or furnished by nationally
recognized statistical rating organizations.
(a) A nationally recognized statistical rating organization must annually, not more than 90
calendar days after the end of its fiscal year (as indicated on its current Form NRSRO):
(1) File with the Commission a financial report, as of the end of the fiscal year, containing
audited financial statements of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization or audited
consolidated financial statements of its parent if the nationally recognized statistical rating
organization is a separately identifiable division or department of the parent. The audited
financial statements must:
(i) Include a balance sheet, an income statement (or a statement of comprehensive income, as
defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X of this chapter, if required by the applicable generally
accepted accounting principles noted in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section) and statement of cash
flows, and a statement of changes in ownership equity;
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 240.17h-1T Risk assessment recordkeeping requirements for associated persons of
brokers and dealers.
(a) Requirement to maintain and preserve information. (1) Every broker or dealer registered with
the Commission pursuant to section 15 of the Act, and every municipal securities dealer
A-151

registered pursuant to Section 15B of the Act for which the Commission is the appropriate
regulatory agency, unless exempt pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section, shall maintain and
preserve the following information:
***
(v) Quarterly consolidated and consolidating income statements and consolidated cash flow
statements, prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which may be
unaudited and which shall include the notes to the financial statements, for the broker or dealer
and its ultimate holding company;
NOTE TO PARAGRAPH (a)(1)(v). Statements of comprehensive income (as defined in § 210.1-02
of Regulation S-X of this chapter) must be included in place of income statements, if required by
the applicable generally accepted accounting principles.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
Part 249 - FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
§ 249.220f Form 20-F, registration of securities of foreign private issuers pursuant to
section 12(b) or (g), annual and transition reports pursuant to sections 13 and 15(d), and
shell company reports required under Rule 13a-19 or 15d-19 (§ 240.13a-19 or § 240.15d-19
of this chapter).
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
A. Who May Use Form 20-F and When It Must be Filed.
***
(b) A foreign private issuer must file its annual report on this Form within the following period:

A-152

(1) Within six months after the end of the fiscal year covered by the report for fiscal years ending
before December 15, 2011; and
(2) Within four months after the end of the fiscal year covered by the report for fiscal years
ending on or after December 15, 2011.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
D. How to File Registration Statements and Reports of this Form.
(a) You must file the Form 20-F registration statement or annual report in electronic format via
our Electronic Data Gathering and Retrieval System (EDGAR) in accordance with the EDGAR
rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Ppart 232). The Form 20-F registration statement or
annual report must be in the English language as required by Regulation S-T Rule 306 (17 CFR
232.306). You must provide the signatures required for the Form 20-F registration statement or
annual report in accordance with Regulation S-T Rule 302 (17 CFR 232.302). If you have
technical questions about EDGAR questionsor want to request an access code, call the EDGAR
Filer Support Office at (202) 551-8900. If you have questions about the EDGAR rules, call the
Office of EDGAR and Information Analysis at (202) 551-3610.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
***
E. Which Items to Respond to in Registration Statements and Annual Reports.
***
(c) Financial Statements. (1) For an issuer’s fiscal years ending before December 15, 2011, an
Exchange Act registration statement or annual report filed on this Form must contain the
A-153

financial statements and related information specified in Item 17 of this Form. We encourage
you to provide the financial statements and related information specified in Item 18 of this Form
in lieu of Item 17, but the Item 18 statements and information are not required. In certain
circumstances, Forms F-1, F-3 or F-4 for the registration of securities under the Securities Act
require that you provide the financial statements and related information specified in Item 18 in
your annual report on Form 20-F. Consult those Securities Act forms for the specific
requirements and consider the potential advantages of complying with Item 18 instead of Item 17
of this Form. Note that Items 17 and 18 may require you to file financial statements of other
entities in certain circumstances. These circumstances are described in Regulation S-X.
(2) For the issuer’s fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2011, aAn Exchange Act
registration statement or annual report filed on this Form must contain the financial statements
and related information specified in Item 18 of this Form. Note that Items 17 and 18 may require
you to file the financial statements of other entities in certain circumstances. These
circumstances are described in Regulation S-X.
(32) The issuer’s financial statements must be audited in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted auditing standardsthe standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States) (“PCAOB”), and the auditor must comply with the U.S. standards for auditor
independencebe qualified and independent in accordance with Article 2 of Regulation S-X. The
financial statements of entities other than the issuer must be audited in accordance with
applicable professional standards. If you have any questions about these requirements, contact
the Office of Chief Accountant in the Division of Corporation Finance at (202) 551-3400.
See discussion in Sections IV.B.1 and V.B.1 of this release.
A-154

***
G. First-Time Application of International Financial Reporting Standards.
***
(c) Selected Financial Data. The selected historical financial data required pursuant to Item 3.A
shall be based on financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS and shall be presented
for the two most recent financial years. The issuer shall present selected historical financial data
in accordance with U.S. GAAP for the five most recent financial years, except as the issuer is
otherwise permitted to omit U.S. GAAP information for any of the earliest of the five years
pursuant to Item 3.A.1.
See discussion in Section V.B.16 of this release.
***
(f)(1) General. With respect to the financial information of the issuer required by Item 8.A, all
instructions contained in Item 8, including the instruction requiring audits in accordance with the
standards of the PCAOBU.S. generally accepted auditing standards, shall apply.

***
Item 3. Key Information
***
A. Selected financial data.
***
3. Where the financial statements provided in response to Item 8 are prepared in a currency
other than the currency of the host country, disclosure of the exchange rate between the financial
A-155

reporting currency and the currency of the host country should be provided, using the exchange
rate designated by the host country for this purpose, if any:
(a) at the latest practicable date;
(b) the high and low exchange rates for each month during the previous six months; and
(c) for the five most recent financial years and any subsequent interim period for which financial
statements are presented, the average rates for each period, calculated by using the average of the
exchange rates on the last day of each month during the period.
See discussion in Section IV.B.5 of this release.
***
Instructions to Item 3.A:
***
2. You may present the selected financial data on the basis of the accounting principles used in
your primary financial statements. If you use a basis of accounting other than IFRS as issued by
the IASB, however, you also must include in this summary any reconciliations of the data to U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles and Regulation S-X, pursuant to Item 17 or 18 of this
Form. For financial statements prepared using a basis of accounting other than IFRS as issued by
the IASB, you only have to provide selected financial data on a basis reconciled to U.S.
generally accepted accounting principles for (i) those periods for which you were required to
reconcile the primary annual financial statements in a filing under the Securities Act or the
Exchange Act, and (ii) any interim periods. An issuer that adopted IFRS as issued by the IASB
during the past three years is only required to provide selected financial data for the periods that
it prepared financial statements in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
A-156

See discussion in Section V.B.16 of this release.
***
Item 4. Information on the Company
***
A. History and development of the company. The following information shall be provided:
***
8. State that the SEC maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC and state
the address of that site (http://www.sec.gov). Disclose your Internet address, if available.
See discussion in Section IV.B.3.a and IV.B.3.b of this release.
***
Item 5. Operating and Financial Review and Prospects
***
C. Research and development, patents and licenses, etc. Provide a description of the company’s
research and development policies for the last three years, where it is significant, including the
amount spent during each of the last three financial years on company-sponsored research and
development activities.
See discussion in Section III.C.14.b of this release.
***
Item 8. Financial Information

A-157

The purpose of this standard is to specify which financial statements must be included in the
document, as well as the periods to be covered, the age of the financial statements and other
information of a financial nature.
A. Consolidated Statements and Other Financial Information.
1. The document must contain consolidated financial statements, audited by an independent
auditor and accompanied by an audit report, comprised of:
(a) balance sheet;
(b) statement of comprehensive income (either in a single continuous financial statement or in
two separate but consecutive financial statements; or a statement of net income if there was no
other comprehensive income) statement;
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
5. If the document is dated more than nine months after the end of the last audited financial year,
it should contain consolidated interim financial statements, which may be unaudited (in which
case that fact should be stated), covering at least the first six months of the financial year. The
interim financial statements should include a balance sheet, statement of comprehensive income
(either in a single continuous financial statement or in two separate but consecutive financial
statements; or a statement of net income if there was no other comprehensive income)statement,
cash flow statement, and a statement showing either (i) changes in equity other than those arising
from capital transactions with owners and distributions to owners, or (ii) all changes in equity
(including a subtotal of all non-owner items recognized directly in equity). Each of these
statements may be in condensed form as long as it contains the major line items from the latest
A-158

audited financial statements and includes the major components of assets, liabilities and equity
(in the case of the balance sheet); income and expenses (in the case of the statement of
comprehensive income statement) and the major subtotals of cash flows (in the case of the cash
flow statement). The interim financial statements should include comparative statements for the
same period in the prior financial year, except that the requirement for comparative balance sheet
information may be satisfied by presenting the year end balance sheet. If not included in the
primary financial statements, a note should be provided analyzing the changes in each caption of
shareholders’ equity presented in the balance sheet. The interim financial statements should
include selected note disclosures that will provide an explanation of events and changes that are
significant to an understanding of the changes in financial position and performance of the
enterprise since the last annual reporting date. If, at the date of the document, the company has
published interim financial information that covers a more current period than those otherwise
required by this standard, the more current interim financial information must be included in the
document. Companies are encouraged, but not required, to have any interim financial statements
in the document reviewed by an independent auditor. If such a review has been performed and is
referred to in the document, a copy of the auditor’s interim review report must be provided in the
document.
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
Instructions to Item 8.A.2:
***

A-159

2. The financial statements of the issuer must be audited in accordance with the standards of the
PCAOB U.S. generally accepted auditing standards, and the auditor must comply with the U.S.
and Commission standards for auditor independence. Refer to NoteArticle 2 of Regulation S-X,
which contains requirements for qualifications and reports of accountants.
See discussion in Section V.B.1 of this release.
***
Instructions to Item 8.A.4:
1. In calculating the 15-month requirement for the age of financial statements, determine the age
based on the period of time that has elapsed between the date of the balance sheet and “the time
of the offering or listing,” which means the time the registration statement is declared effective.
2. The additional requirement that financial statements be no older than 12 months at the date of
filing applies only in those limited cases where a nonpublic company is registering its initial
public offering of securities. We will waive this requirement in cases where A company may
comply with only the 15-month requirement in this item if the company is able to represent
adequately to us that it is not required to comply with this the 12-month requirement in any other
jurisdiction outside the United States and that complying with the 12-month requirement is
impracticable or involves undue hardship. File this representation as an exhibit to the registration
statement. If we waive the 12-month requirement, you must comply with the 15-month
requirement in this item.
See discussion in Section IV.B.6 of this release.
***
Item 9. The Offer and Listing.
A-160

The purpose of this standard is to provide information regarding the offer or listing of securities,
the plan for distribution of the securities and related matters.
A. Offer and listing details.
***
4. Information regarding the price history of the stock to be offered or listed shall be disclosed as
follows: Identify the host and principal market(s) and trading symbol(s) for those markets for
each class of the registrant’s common equity.
(a) for the five most recent full financial years: the annual high and low market prices;
(b) for the two most recent full financial years and any subsequent period: the high and low
market prices for each full financial quarter;
(c) for the most recent six months: the high and low market prices for each month;
(d) for pre-emptive issues, the market prices for the first trading day in the most recent six
months, for the last trading day before the announcement of the offering and (if different) for the
latest practicable date prior to publication of the document.
Information shall be given with respect to the market price in the host market and the principal
trading market outside the host market. If significant trading suspensions occurred in the prior
three years, they shall be disclosed. If the securities are not regularly traded in an organized
market, information shall be given about any lack of liquidity.
See discussion in Section IV.B.4.b of this release.
***
Item 10. Additional Information.
***
A-161

F. Dividends and paying agents. Disclose any dividend restrictions, the date on which the
entitlement to dividends arises, if known, and any procedures for nonresident holders to claim
dividends. Identify the financial organizations which, at the time of admission of shares to
official listing, are the paying agents of the company in the countries where admission has taken
place or is expected to take place.
See discussion in Section III.D.2.b of this release.
***
Item 11. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.
***
General Instructions to Items 11(a), 11(b), 11(c), 11(d), and 11(e).
1. Bank registrants, thrift registrants, and non-bank and non-thrift registrants with market
capitalizations on January 28, 1997 in excess of $2.5 billion should provide Item 11 disclosures
in filings with the Commission that include annual financial statements for fiscal years ending
after June 15, 1997. Non-bank and non-thrift registrants with market capitalizations on January
28, 1997 of $2.5 billion or less should provide Item 11 disclosures in filings with the
Commission that include annual financial statements for fiscal years ending after June 15, 1998.
[Reserved]
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
Item 12. Description of Securities Other than Equity Securities.
***
Instructions to Item 12:
A-162

1. You do not need to provide the information called for by this Item if you are using the form as
an annual report for your fiscal years ending before December 15, 2009. For your fiscal years
ending on or after December 15, 2009, eExcept for Item 12.D.3. and Item 12.D.4, you do not
need to provide the information called for by this Item if you are using this form as an annual
report.
***
Item 14. Material Modifications to the Rights of Security Holders and Use of Proceeds.
***
B. If you or anyone else has modified materially or qualified the rights evidenced by any class of
registered securities by issuing or modifying any other class of securities, briefly describe the
general effect of the issuance or modification on the rights of holders of the registered securities.
***
Instruction to Item 14.B: You should report any working capital restrictions or other limitations
on the payment of dividends.
See discussion in Section III.D.2.b of this release.
***
Item 15T. Controls and Procedures.
Note to Item 15T: This is a special temporary section that applies instead of Item 15 only to: (1)
an issuer that is an "accelerated filer,” but not a “large accelerated filer,” as those terms are
defined in §240.12b-2 of this chapter and only with respect to an annual report that the issuer is
required to file for a fiscal year ending on or after July 15, 2006 but before July 15, 2007; or (2)
an issuer that is neither a “large accelerated filer” nor an “accelerated filer” as those terms are
A-163

defined in §240.12b-2 of this chapter and only with respect to an annual report that the issuer is
required to file for a fiscal year ending on or after December 15, 2007 but before June 15, 2010.
(a) Disclosure Controls and Procedures. Where the Form is being used as an annual report filed
under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, disclose the conclusions of the issuer’s
principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions,
regarding the effectiveness of the issuer’s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in 17
CFR 240.13a-15(e) or 240.15d-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by the report, based on
the evaluation of these controls and procedures required by paragraph (b) of 17 CFR 240.13a-15
or 240.15d-15.
(b) Management’s annual report on internal control over financial reporting. Where the Form is
being used as an annual report filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, provide a
report of management on the issuer’s internal control over financial reporting (as defined in
§240.13a-15(f) or 240.15d-15(f) of this chapter). The report shall not be deemed to be filed for
purposes of section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section,
unless the issuer specifically states that the report is to be considered “filed” under the Exchange
Act or incorporates it by reference into a filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.
The report must contain:
(1) A statement of management’s responsibility for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting for the issuer;
(2) A statement identifying the framework used by management to evaluate the effectiveness of
the issuer’s internal control over financial reporting as required by paragraph (c) of §240.13a-15
or 240.15d-15 of this chapter;
A-164

(3) Management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the issuer’s internal control over financial
reporting as of the end of the issuer’s most recent fiscal year, including a statement as to whether
or not internal control over financial reporting is effective. This discussion must include
disclosure of any material weakness in the issuer’s internal control over financial reporting
identified by management. Management is not permitted to conclude that the issuer’s internal
control over financial reporting is effective if there are one or more material weaknesses in the
issuer’s internal control over financial reporting; and
(4) A statement in substantially the following form: “This annual report does not include an
attestation report of the company’s registered public accounting firm regarding internal control
over financial reporting. Management’s report was not subject to attestation by the company’s
registered public accounting firm pursuant to temporary rules of the Securities and Exchange
Commission that permit the company to provide only management’s report in this annual
report.”
(c) Changes in internal control over financial reporting. Disclose any change in the issuer’s
internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by
paragraph (d) of §240.13a-15 or 240.15d-15 of this chapter that occurred during the period
covered by the annual report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
affect, the issuer’s internal control over financial reporting.
(d) This temporary Item 15T, and accompanying note and instructions, will expire on December
15, 2010.
Instructions to Item 15T

A-165

1. An issuer need only comply with paragraph (b) of this Item until it either had been required to
file an annual report pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or
78o(d)) for the prior fiscal year or had filed an annual report with the Commission for the prior
fiscal year. An issuer that does not comply shall include a statement in the first annual report that
it files in substantially the following form: “This annual report does not include a report of
management’s assessment regarding internal control over financial reporting or an attestation
report of the company’s registered public accounting firm due to a transition period established
by rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission for newly public companies.”
2. The registrant must maintain evidential matter, including documentation, to provide
reasonable support for management’s assessment of the effectiveness of the issuer’s internal
control over financial reporting.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
Item 16F. Change in Registrant’s Certifying Accountant.
***
Instructions to Item 16F:
1. Item 16F applies to all annual reports and registration statements filed on Form 20-F for the
issuer’s fiscal years ending on or after December 15, 2009. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
Item 16G. Corporate Governance
***
A-166

Instructions to Item 16G: A registrant must provide the information required in Item 16G
beginning with the annual report that its files for its first fiscal year ending on or after December
15, 2008. Item 16G only applies to annual reports, and not to registration statements on Form 20F. Registrants should provide a brief and general discussion, rather than a detailed, item-by-item
analysis.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
Item 17. Financial Statements.
***
Instructions:
***
3. For its fiscal years ending before December 15, 2009, if the registrant presents its financial
statements according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States except for
“FASB ASC Topic 280, Segment Reporting and if it furnishes the information relating to
categories of activity required by Items 4.B.1. and 4.B.2. of this Form, then such financial
statements will be considered to comply with this Item, even if the auditor's report is qualified
for noncompliance with FASB ASC Topic 280. Such report and financial statements, however,
must comply with all other applicable requirements. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
5. For purposes of this Item, a hyperinflationary economy is one that has cumulative inflation of
approximately 100% or more over the most recent three year period.
A-167

Special Instruction for Certain European Issuers:
An issuer incorporated in a Member State of the European Union that has complied with the
carve out to IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement,” as adopted by the
European Union, in financial statements previously filed with the Commission, may file financial
statements for its first two financial years that end after November 15, 2007 without reconciling
to U.S. GAAP if that issuer’s financial statements otherwise comply with IFRS as issued by the
IASB and the issuer provides an audited reconciliation to IFRS as issued by the IASB. This
reconciliation to IFRS as issued by the IASB is to contain information relating to financial
statement line items and footnote disclosure based on full compliance with IFRS as issued by the
IASB, and is to be prepared and disclosed in the same manner that an issuer would provide a
reconciliation to U.S. GAAP, following the requirements in Item 17(c)(2). All financial
statements of such an issuer for periods prior to the financial year that ends after November 15,
2007 must continue to be reconciled to U.S. GAAP. For financial years following the two
financial years ending after November 15, 2007, such an issuer will be required to include
reconciliations to U.S. GAAP unless the issuer complies with the requirements in Item 17(c).
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
Item 18. Financial Statements.
***
Instructions to Item 18.

A-168

1. For fiscal years ending before December 15, 2009, all of the instructions to Item 17 also apply
to this Item, except Instruction 3 to Item 17, which does not apply. For all fiscal years ending on
or after December 15, 2009, aAll of the instructions to Item 17 also apply to this Item.
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
Special Instruction for Certain European Issuers.
An issuer incorporated in a Member State of the European Union that has complied with the
carve out to IAS 39 “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement,” as adopted by the
European Union, in financial statements previously filed with the Commission, may file financial
statements for its first two financial years that end after November 15, 2007 without reconciling
to U.S. GAAP if that issuer’s financial statements otherwise comply with IFRS as issued by the
IASB and the issuer provides an audited reconciliation to IFRS as issued by the IASB. This
reconciliation to IFRS as issued by the IASB is to contain information relating to financial
statement line items and footnote disclosure based on full compliance with IFRS as issued by the
IASB, and is to be prepared and disclosed in the same manner that an issuer would provide a
reconciliation to U.S. GAAP, following the requirements in Item 18. All financial statements of
such an issuer for periods prior to the financial year that ends after November 15, 2007 must
continue to be reconciled to U.S. GAAP. For financial years following the two financial years
ending after November 15, 2007, such an issuer will be required to include reconciliations to
U.S. GAAP unless the issuer complies with the requirements in Item 18(a).
See discussion in Section IV.B.1 of this release.
***
A-169

INSTRUCTIONS AS TO EXHIBITS
***
6. A statement explaining in reasonable detail how earnings per share information was
calculated, unless the computation is clear from material contained in the registration statement
or report.[Reserved]
See discussion in Section II.B.8 of this release.
7. A statement explaining in reasonable detail how any ratio of earning to fixed charges, any
ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends or any other ratios in
the registration statement or report were calculated. [Reserved]
See discussion in Section III.C.18 of this release.
§ 249.240f Form 40-F, for registration of securities of certain Canadian issuers pursuant
to section 12(b) or (g) and for reports pursuant to section 15(d) and Rule 15d-4 (§240.15d-4
of this chapter).
***
D. Application of General Rules and Regulations
***
(7) A filer must file the Form 40-F registration statement or annual report in electronic format via
the Commission's Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval (EDGAR) system in
accordance with the EDGAR rules set forth in Regulation S-T (17 CFR Part 232). For assistance
with technical questions about EDGAR questions or to request an access code, call the EDGAR
Filer Support Office at (202) 942551-8900. For assistance with the EDGAR rules, call the Office
of EDGAR and Information Analysis at (202) 942-2940.
A-170

See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this proposing release.
§ 249.310 Form 10-K, for annual and transition reports pursuant to sections 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
***
J.

Use of this Form by Asset-Backed Issuers.

The following applies to registrants that are asset-backed issuers. Terms used in this General
Instruction J. have the same meaning as in Item 1101 of Regulation AB ( 17 CFR 229.1101).
(1) Items that May be Omitted. Such registrants may omit the information called for by the
following otherwise required Items:
(a) Item 1, Business;
(b) Item 1A. Risk Factors;
(c) Item 2, Properties;
(d) Item 3, Legal Proceedings;
(e) [Reserved]
(f) Item 5, Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, and Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities;
(g) Item 6, Selected Financial Data;
(h) Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations;
(i) Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk;
(j) Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data;
A-171

(k) Item 9, Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure
(l) Item 9A, Controls and Procedures
(m) If the issuing entity does not have any executive officers or directors, Item 10, Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant, Item 11, Executive Compensation, Item 12, Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management, and Item 13, Certain
Relationships and Related Transactions; and
(n) Item 14, Principal Accountant Fees and Services.
See discussion in Section V.B.18 of this release.
***
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters.
Furnish the information required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K (§229.201(d) of this chapter)
and by Item 403 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.403 of this chapter).
See discussion in Section III.C.17 of this release.
§ 249.311 Form 11-K, for annual reports of employee stock purchase, savings and similar
plans pursuant to section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
REQUIRED INFORMATION
The following financial statements shall be furnished for the plan:
1. An audited statement of financial condition as of the end of the latest two fiscal years of the
plan (or such lesser period as the plan has been in existence).

A-172

2. An audited statement of comprehensive income (either in a single continuous financial
statement or in two separate but consecutive financial statements; or a statement of net income if
there was no other comprehensive income) and changes in plan equity for each of the latest three
fiscal years of the plan (or such lesser period as the plan has been in existence).
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
§ 249.312 Form 10-D, periodic distribution reports by asset-backed issuers.
***
Item 5. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. [Reserved]
Provide the information required by Item 4 of Part II of Form 10-Q with respect to the period
covered by this report.
See discussion in Section V.B.15 of this release.
§ 249.617 Form X-17A-5, information required of certain brokers and dealers pursuant to
section 17 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and § 240.17a-5, § 240.17a-10 and §
240.17a-11, and § 240.17a-12 of this chapter.
Part II
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
***
29. Corporation:
A. Preferred stock

______ 1791

B. Common Stock

▼28 ______ 1792

C. Additional paid-in capital

______ 1793

D. Retained earnings

______ 1794
A-173

E. Accumulated other comprehensive income

______ 99999

EF. Total

______ 1795

FG. Less capital stock in treasury

(______)1796

See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
STATEMENT OF INCOME (LOSS) or STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (as
defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X), as applicable
***
NET INCOME/COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
***
32. Extraordinary gains (losses) [RESERVED]

______ 4224

a. After Federal income taxes of [RESERVED]

_____ 4239

33. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles [RESERVED]

______ 4225

34. Net income (loss) after Federal income taxes and extraordinary items

$_____ 4230

35. Other comprehensive income (loss)

______ 99999

a. After Federal income taxes of

_____ 99999

36. Comprehensive income (loss)

$_____ 99999

MONTHLY INCOME
3537. Income (current month only) before provision for Federal income taxes
and extraordinary items

$______ 4211

See discussion in Sections V.B.12, V.B.13, and V.B.14 of this release.
***
A-174

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
***
STATEMENT OF INCOME (LOSS) or STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (as
defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X), as applicable
If there are no items of other comprehensive income in the period presented, the broker or dealer
is not required to report comprehensive income.
***
Extraordinary Items
State in a note the nature and amount of any material items and disclose the tax
applicable to each.
Effect of Changes in Accounting Principles
State in a note any material items and disclose the tax applicable to each.
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP EQUITY (SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP,
PARTNERSHIP OR CORPORATION)
***
Net Income (Loss) For Period
Report the amount of net income (loss) for the period reported on the Statement of Income
(Loss) or Statement of Comprehensive Income, as applicable.
See discussion in Sections V.B.12 of this release.
Part IIA
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION FOR NONCARRYING, NONCLEARING AND
CERTAIN OTHER BROKERS OR DEALERS
A-175

***
23. Corporation:
A. Preferred stock

______ 1791

B. Common Stock

______ 1792

C. Additional paid-in capital

______ 1793

D. Retained earnings

______ 1794

E. Accumulated other comprehensive income

______ 99999

EF. Total

______ 1795
▼16

FG. Less capital stock in treasury

(______)1796

See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
STATEMENT OF INCOME (LOSS) or STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (as
defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X), as applicable
***
NET INCOME/COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
***
20. Extraordinary gains (losses) [RESERVED]

______ 4224

a. After Federal income taxes of [RESERVED]

______ 4239

21. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles [RESERVED]

______ 4225

22. Net income (loss) after Federal income taxes and extraordinary items

$_____ 4230

23. Other comprehensive income (loss)

______ 99999

a. After Federal income taxes of

______ 99999

24. Comprehensive income (loss)

$_____ 99999
A-176

MONTHLY INCOME
2325. Income (current month only) before provision for Federal income taxes
and extraordinary items

$_____ 4211

See discussion in Sections V.B.12, V.B.13, and V.B.14 of this release.
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
***
STATEMENT OF INCOME (LOSS) or STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (as
defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X), as applicable
If there are no items of other comprehensive income in the period presented, the broker or dealer
is not required to report comprehensive income.
***
20 – State, in a note, the nature and amount of any material gains or losses and disclose the tax
applicable to each.
21 – State, in a note, any material items and disclose the tax applicable to each.
***
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN OWNERSHIP EQUITY (SOLE PROPRIETORSHIP,
PARTNERSHIP OR CORPORATION)
***
Net Income (Loss) For Period
Report the amount of net income (loss) for the period reported on the Statement of Income
(Loss) or Statement of Comprehensive Income, as applicable.
A-177

See discussion in Sections V.B.12, V.B.13, and V.B.14 of this release.
Part IIB
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION FOR OTC DERIVATIVES DEALERS
***
28. Corporation:
A. Preferred stock

______ 1791

B. Common Stock

______ 1792

C. Additional paid-in capital

______ 1793

D. Retained earnings

______ 1794

E. Accumulated other comprehensive income

______ 99999

EF. Total

______ 1795

FG. Less capital stock in treasury

(______)1796

See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
***
STATEMENT OF INCOME (LOSS) or STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (as
defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation S-X), as applicable
***
NET INCOME/COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
***
29. Extraordinary gains (losses) [RESERVED]
A. After Federal income taxes of [RESERVED]
30. Cumulative effect of changes in accounting principles [RESERVED]
A-178

______ 4224
______ 4239
______ 4225

31. Net income (loss) after Federal income taxes and extraordinary items

$_____ 4230

32. Other comprehensive income (loss)

______ 99999

A. After Federal income taxes of

______ 99999

33. Comprehensive income (loss)

$_____ 99999

MONTHLY INCOME
3234. Income (current month only) before provision for Federal income taxes
and extraordinary items

$_____ 4211

See discussion in Sections V.B.12, V.B.13, and V.B.14 of this release.
***
PART III
FACING PAGE
***
☐ (c) Statement of Income (Loss) or, if there is other comprehensive income in the period(s)
presented, a Statement of Comprehensive Income (as defined in § 210.1-02 of Regulation SX).
See discussion in Section V.B.12 of this release.
PART 274—FORMS PRESCRIBED UNDER THE INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF
1940
§§ 239.24 and 274.5 Form N-5, form for registration of small business investment
company under the Securities Act of 1933 and the Investment Company Act of 1940.
***
Item 3. Policies with Respect to Security Investments.
A-179

***
(i) Whether the registrant and its investment adviser and principal underwriter have adopted
codes of ethics under Rule l 7j-1 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 [17 CFR 270.17j-1]
and whether these codes of ethics permit personnel subject to the codes to invest in securities,
including securities that may be purchased or held by the registrant. Also explain that these codes
of ethics can be reviewed and copied at the Commission's Public Reference Room in
Washington, D.C., that information on the operation of the Public Reference Room may be
obtained by calling the Commission at 1-202-942-8090, that these codes of ethics are available
on the EDGAR Database on the Commission's Internet site at http://www.sec.gov, and that
copies of these codes of ethics may be obtained, after paying a duplicating fee, by electronic
request at the following E-mail address: publicinfo@sec.gov,or by writing the Commission's
Public Reference Section, Washington, D.C. 20549-0102.
See discussion in Section IV.B.3.a of this release.
§§ 239.15A and 274.11A Form N-1A, registration statement of open-end management
investment companies.
Part A – INFORMATION REQUIRED IN A PROSPECTUS
***
Item 1. Front and Back Cover Pages
***
(b)
***

A-180

(3) A statement that information about the Fund (including the SAI) can be reviewed and copied
at the Commission’s Public Reference Room in Washington, DC, and that information on the
operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the Commission at 1-202551-8090. State that reports and other information about the Fund are available on the EDGAR
Database on the Commission’s Internet site at http://www.sec.gov, and that copies of this
information may be obtained, after paying a duplicating fee, by electronic request at the
following E-mail address: publicinfo@sec.gov, or by writing the Commission’s Public
Reference Section, Washington, DC 20549-1520.
See discussion in Section IV.B.3.a of this release.
***
Item 3. Risk/Return Summary: Fee Table
***
Instructions
***
3. Annual Fund Operating Expenses
(a) “Management Fees” include investment advisory fees (including any fees based on the
Fund’s performance), any other management fees payable to the investment adviser or its
affiliates, and administrative fees payable to the investment adviser or its affiliates that are not
included as “Other Expenses.”
(b) “Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees” include all distribution or other expenses
incurred during the most recent fiscal year under a plan adopted pursuant to rule 12b-1 [17 CFR
270.12b-1]. Under an appropriate caption or a subcaption of “Other Expenses,” disclose the
A-181

amount of any distribution or similar expenses deducted from the Fund’s assets other than
pursuant to a rule 12b-1 plan.
(c)
***
(ii) “Other Expenses” do not include extraordinary expenses. as determined under generally
accepted accounting principles (see FASB ASC Subtopic 225-20, Income StatementExtraordinary and Unusual Items). “Extraordinary expenses” refers to expenses that are
distinguished by their unusual nature and by the infrequency of occurrence. Unusual nature
means the expense has a high degree of abnormality and is clearly unrelated to, or only
incidentally related to, the ordinary and typical activities of the fund, taking into account the
environment in which the fund operates. Infrequency of occurrence means the expense is not
reasonably expected to recur in the foreseeable future, taking into consideration the environment
in which the fund operates. The environment of a fund includes such factors as the characteristics
of the industry or industries in which it operates, the geographical location of its operations, and
the nature and extent of governmental regulation. If extraordinary expenses were incurred that
materially affected the Fund’s “Other Expenses,” disclose in a footnote to the table what “Other
Expenses” would have been had the extraordinary expenses been included.
See discussion in Section V.B.13 of this release.
***
Item 27. Financial Statements
***

A-182

(d) Annual and Semi-Annual Reports. Every annual and semi-annual report to shareholders
required by rule 30e-1 must contain the following:
(1) Expense Example. The following information regarding expenses for the period:
***
Instructions
***
2. Computation (a) (i) In determining the Fund’s “actual expenses” for purposes of this example,
include all expenses that are deducted from the Fund’s assets or charged to all shareholder
accounts, including “Management Fees,” “Distribution [and/or Service] (12b-1) Fees,” and
“Other Expenses” as those terms are defined in Instruction 3 to Item 3 of this form as modified
by Instructions 2(a)(ii) and (c)(i) to this Item. Reflect recurring and non-recurring fees charged to
all investors other than any exchange fees, sales charges (loads), or fees charged upon
redemption of the Fund’s shares. The amount of expenses deducted from the Fund’s assets are
the amounts shown as expenses in the Fund’s statement of operations (including increases
resulting from complying with paragraph 2(g) of rule 6-07 of Regulation S-X [17 CFR 210.607]).
(ii) For purposes of this Item 27(d)(1), “Other Expenses” include extraordinary expenses. as
determined under generally accepted accounting principles (see FASB ASC Subtopic 225-20,
Income Statement-Extraordinary and Unusual Items). “Extraordinary expenses” refers to
expenses that are distinguished by their unusual nature and by the infrequency of occurrence.
Unusual nature means the expense has a high degree of abnormality and is clearly unrelated to,
or only incidentally related to, the ordinary and typical activities of the fund, taking into account
A-183

the environment in which the fund operates. Infrequency of occurrence means the expense is not
reasonably expected to recur in the foreseeable future, taking into consideration the environment
in which the fund operates. The environment of a fund includes such factors as the characteristics
of the industry or industries in which it operates, the geographical location of its operations, and
the nature and extent of governmental regulation. If extraordinary expenses were incurred that
materially affected the Fund’s “Other Expenses,” the Fund may disclose in a footnote to the
Example what “actual expenses” would have been had the extraordinary expenses not been
included.
See discussion in Section V.B.13 of this release.
***
(3) Statement Regarding Availability of Quarterly Portfolio Schedule. A statement that: (i) the
Fund files its complete schedule of portfolio holdings with the Commission for the first and third
quarters of each fiscal year on Form N-Q; (ii) the Fund’s Forms N-Q are available on the
Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov; (iii) the Fund’s Forms N-Q may be reviewed and
copied at the commission’s Public Reference Room in Washington, DC, and that information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330; and
(iv) (iii) if the Fund makes the information on Form N-Q available to shareholders on its website
or upon request, a description of how the information may be obtained from the Fund.
See discussion in Section IV.B.3a of this release.
§§ 239.14 and 274.11a-1 Form N-2, for closed-end management investment companies
registered on Form N-8A.
***
A-184

Item 18. Management
***
15. Codes of Ethics: Provide a brief statement disclosing whether the Registrant and its
investment adviser and principal underwriter have adopted codes of ethics under Rule 17j-1 of
the 1940 Act [17 CFR 270.17j-1] and whether these codes of ethics permit personnel subject to
the codes to invest in securities, including securities that may be purchased or held by the
Registrant. Also explain in the statement that these codes of ethics can be reviewed and copied at
the Commission’s Public Reference Room in Washington, DC, that information on the operation
of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the Commission a t 1 - 202-551-8090,
that these codes of ethics are available on the EDGAR Database on the Commission’s Internet
site at http://www.sec.gov, and that copies of these codes of ethics may be obtained, after paying
a duplicating fee, by electronic request at the following email address: publicinfo@sec.gov, or by
writing the Commission’s Public Reference Section, Washington, DC, 20549-0102.
***
Item 24. Financial Statements
***
Instructions
***
6.
***
b. a statement that: (i) the Registrant files its complete schedule of portfolio holdings with the
Commission for the first and third quarters of each fiscal year on Form N-Q; (ii) the Registrant’s

A-185

Forms N-Q are available on the Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov; and (iii) the
Registrant’s Forms N-Q may be reviewed and copied at the Commission’s Public Reference
Room in Washington, DC, and that information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
may be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330; and (iv) if the Registrant makes the information on
Form N-Q available to shareholders on its website or upon request, a description of how the
information may be obtained from the Registrant.
See discussion in Section IV.B.3.a of this release.
§§ 239.17a and 274.11b Form N-3, registration statement for separate accounts organized
as management investment companies.
Part A – INFORMATION REQUIRED IN A PROSPECTUS
***
Item 3. Synopsis or Highlights
***
Instructions
***
4. Annual Expenses
***
(c) “Other Expenses” includes all expenses (except fees and expenses reported in other items in
the table) that are deducted from separate account assets and will be reflected as expenses in the
Registrant’s statement of operations (including increases resulting from complying with
paragraph 2(g) of Rule 6-07 [17 CFR 210.6-07] of Regulation S-X).

A-186

(i) “Other Expenses” do not include extraordinary expenses. as determined by use of generally
accepted accounting principles (see FASB ASC Subtopic 225-20, Income StatementExtraordinary and Unusual Items). “Extraordinary expenses” refers to expenses that are
distinguished by their unusual nature and by the infrequency of occurrence. Unusual nature
means the expense has a high degree of abnormality and is clearly unrelated to, or only
incidentally related to, the ordinary and typical activities of the fund, taking into account the
environment in which the fund operates. Infrequency of occurrence means the expense is not
reasonably expected to recur in the foreseeable future, taking into consideration the environment
in which the fund operates. The environment of a fund includes such factors as the characteristics
of the industry or industries in which it operates, the geographical location of its operations, and
the nature and extent of governmental regulation. If extraordinary expenses were incurred that
materially affected the Registrant’s “Other Expenses,” the Registrant should disclose in the
narrative following the table what the “Other Expenses” would have been had extraordinary
expenses been included.
See discussion in Section V.B.13 of this release.
***
Item 20. Management
***
(m)Provide a brief statement disclosing whether the Registrant and its investment adviser and
principal underwriter have adopted codes of ethics under Rule 17j-1 of the 1940 Act [17 CFR
270.17j-1] and whether these codes of ethics permit personal personnel subject to the codes to
invest in securities, including securities that may be purchased or held by the Registrant. Also
A-187

explain in the statement that these codes of ethics can be reviewed and copied at the
Commission’s Public Reference Room in Washington, D.C., that information on the operation of
the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the Commission at 1-202-551-8090, that
these codes of ethics are available on the EDGAR Database on the Commission’s Internet site at
http://www.sec.gov, and that copies of these codes of ethics may be obtained, after paying a
duplicating fee, by electronic request at the following E-mail address: publicinfo@sec.gov, or by
writing the Commission’s Public Reference Section, Washington, D.C. 20549-0213.
***
Item 28. Financial Statements
(a) Provide financial statements of the Registrant.
***
Instructions:
***
(6) Every report required by Section 30(e) of the 1940 Act and Rule 30e-1 under it [17 CFR
270.30e-1] shall contain the following information:
***
(ii) a statement that: (A) the Registrant files its complete schedule of portfolio holdings with the
Commission for the first and third quarters of each fiscal year on Form N-Q; (B) the Registrant’s
Forms N-Q are available on the Commission’s website at http://www.sec.gov; (C) the
Registrant’s Forms N-Q may be reviewed and copied at the Commission’s Public Reference
Room in Washington, DC, and that information on the operation of the Public Reference Room
may be obtained by calling 1-202-551-8090; and (CD) if the Registrant makes the information

A-188

on Form N-Q available to contractowners on its website or upon request, a description of how
the information may be obtained from the Registrant;
See discussion in Section IV.B.3a of this release.
§§ 239.17b and 274.11c Form N-4, registration statement for separate accounts organized
as unit investment trusts.
***
PART A-INFORMATION REQUIRED IN A PROSPECTUS
Item 1. Cover Page
(a)
***
(v) a statement or statements that: (A) the prospectus sets forth the information about the
Registrant that a prospective investor ought to know before investing; (B) the prospectus should
be kept for future reference; (C) additional information about the Registrant has been filed with
the Commission and is available upon written or oral request without charge (This statement
should explain how to obtain the Statement of Additional Information, whether any of it has been
incorporated by reference into the prospectus, and where the table of contents of the Statement of
Additional Information appears in the prospectus. If the Registrant intends to disseminate its
prospectus electronically and is an electronic filer, also include the information that the
Commission maintains a web site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains the Statement of Additional
Information, material incorporated by reference, and other information regarding registrants that
file electronically with the Commission.);
See discussion in Section IV.B.3.a of this release.
A-189

***
Item 3. Synopsis
***
Instructions
***
Total Annual [Portfolio Company] Operating Expenses
***
17. (a) If a Registrant has multiple sub-accounts, it should disclose the minimum and maximum
“Total Annual [Portfolio Company] Operating Expenses” for any portfolio company. “Total
Annual [Portfolio Company] Operating Expenses” include all expenses that are deducted from a
portfolio company’s assets. The amount of expenses deducted from a portfolio company’s assets
are the amounts shown as expenses in the portfolio company’s statement of operations (including
increases resulting from complying with paragraph 2(g) of rule 6-07 of Regulation
S-X [17 CFR 210.6-07]). If any Portfolio Company invests in shares of one or more Acquired
Funds, “Total Annual [Portfolio Company] Operating Expenses” for the Portfolio Company
must also include fees and expenses incurred indirectly by the Portfolio Company as a result of
investment in shares of one or more Acquired Funds, calculated in accordance with Instruction
3(f) to Item 3 of Form N-1A (17 CFR 239.15A; 17 CFR 274.11A). For purposes of this
paragraph, an Acquired Fund means any company in which the Portfolio Company invests that
(i) is an investment company or (ii) would be an investment company under section 3(a) of the
1940 Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(a)) but for the exceptions to that definition provided for in sections
3(c)(1) and 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act (15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(1) and 80a-3(c)(7)).

A-190

(b) “Total Annual [Portfolio Company] Operating Expenses” do not include extraordinary
expenses as determined under generally accepted accounting principles (see FASB ASC
Subtopic 225-20, Income Statement-Extraordinary and Unusual Items). “Extraordinary
expenses” refers to expenses that are distinguished by their unusual nature and by the
infrequency of occurrence. Unusual nature means the expense has a high degree of abnormality
and is clearly unrelated to, or only incidentally related to, the ordinary and typical activities of
the fund, taking into account the environment in which the fund operates. Infrequency of
occurrence means the expense is not reasonably expected to recur in the foreseeable future,
taking into consideration the environment in which the fund operates. The environment of a fund
includes such factors as the characteristics of the industry or industries in which it operates, the
geographical location of its operations, and the nature and extent of governmental regulation. If
extraordinary expenses were incurred by any portfolio company that would, if included,
materially affect the minimum or maximum amounts shown in the table, disclose in a footnote to
the table what the minimum and maximum “Total Annual [Portfolio Company] Operating
Expenses” would have been had the extraordinary expenses been included.
See discussion in Section V.B.13 of this release.
§§ 239.17c and 274.11d Form N-6, registration statement for separate accounts organized
as unit investment trusts that offer variable life insurance policies.
PART A: INFORMATION REQUIRED IN A PROSPECTUS
Item 1. Front and Back Cover Pages
***

A-191

(b)(3) A statement that information about the Registrant (including the SAI) can be reviewed
and copied at the Commission’s Public Reference Room in Washington, DC. Also state that
information on the operation of the public reference room may be obtained by calling the
Commission at 202-942-8090. State that reports and other information about the Registrant are
available on the Commission’s Internet site at http://www.sec.gov and that copies of this
information may be obtained, upon payment of a duplicating fee, by writing the Public Reference
Section of the Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549-0102.
See discussion in Section IV.B.3.a of this release.
***
Item 3. Risk/Benefit Summary: Fee Table
***
Instructions.
4. Total Annual [Portfolio Company] Operating Expenses.
***
(c) “Total Annual [Portfolio Company] Operating Expenses” do not include extraordinary
expenses. as determined under generally accepted accounting principles (see FASB ASC
Subtopic 225-20, Income Statement-Extraordinary and Unusual Items). “Extraordinary
expenses” refers to expenses that are distinguished by their unusual nature and by the
infrequency of occurrence. Unusual nature means the expense has a high degree of abnormality
and is clearly unrelated to, or only incidentally related to, the ordinary and typical activities of
the fund, taking into account the environment in which the fund operates. Infrequency of
occurrence means the expense is not reasonably expected to recur in the foreseeable future,
A-192

taking into consideration the environment in which the fund operates. The environment of a fund
includes such factors as the characteristics of the industry or industries in which it operates, the
geographical location of its operations, and the nature and extent of governmental regulation. If
extraordinary expenses were incurred by any Portfolio Company that would, if included,
materially affect the minimum or maximum amounts shown in the table, disclose in a footnote to
the table what the minimum and maximum “Total Annual [Portfolio Company] Operating
Expenses” would have been had the extraordinary expenses been included.
See discussion in Section V.B.13 of this release.
§ 274.12 Form N-8B-2, registration statement of unit investment trusts that are currently
issuing securities.
***
Item 52. POLICY OF REGISTRANT
***
(e) Provide a brief statement disclosing whether the trust and its principal underwriter have
adopted codes of ethics under rule 17j-l of the Act [17 CFR 270.l7j- l] and whether these codes
of ethics permit personnel subject to the codes to invest in securities, including securities that
may be purchased or held by the trust. Also explain that these codes of ethics can be reviewed
and copied at the Commission's Public Reference Room in Washington,D.C.,that information on
the operation of the Public Reference Room may be obtained by calling the Commission at 1202-942-8090, that these codes of ethics are available on the EDGAR Database on the
Commission's Internet site at http://www.sec.gov, and that copies of these codes of ethics may be
obtained, after paying a duplicating fee, by electronic request at the following E-mail address:
A-193

publicinfo@sec.gov, or by writing the Commission's Public Reference Section,Washington, D.C.
20549--0102.
See discussion in Section IV.B.3.a of this release.

A-194

