UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 10230 / October 5, 2016
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 79045 / October 5, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17618
In the Matter of
ROLF BÖGLI
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT
OF 1933 AND SECTION 21C OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it appropriate that
public cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(the “Exchange Act”) against Rolf Bögli (“Bögli” or the “Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) that the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are
admitted, the Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist
Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (the “Order”), as set
forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds:1
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
1

A.

Summary

1.
From at least the fourth quarter of 2011 through the fourth quarter of 2012, Credit
Suisse in certain instances improperly applied its process for recognizing net new assets (“NNA”)
for the wealth management business within its private bank division (“Private Bank”) in a way that
was inconsistent with its disclosures. As a result, Credit Suisse’s NNA disclosures were materially
misleading.
2.
NNA for the Private Bank was reported in Credit Suisse’s quarterly and annual
reports, which were furnished to the Commission as exhibits to Form 6-K and filed with the
Commission on Form 20-F, respectively, as the change in assets under management (“AUM”)
from one quarter to another. NNA reflects the total net inflow of AUM from new and existing
clients in a given period and measures Credit Suisse’s success in attracting new business. NNA is
a key metric in assessing the wealth management business and therefore is an important disclosure
for investors in financial institutions like Credit Suisse.
3.
Credit Suisse’s public filings disclosed that “[t]he classification of assets under
management is individually assessed on the basis of each client’s intentions and objectives and the
banking services provided to the client.” Credit Suisse’s NNA/AUM process during the relevant
period, in which Bögli played a significant role, was inconsistent with these disclosures.
4.
Rather than evaluating each client and determining what was appropriately
recognized as NNA in a principled way, Bögli, at times, encouraged a results-driven approach that
allowed targets to drive the timing and amount of NNA recognition. In certain instances, Bögli
pressured other Credit Suisse employees to classify certain client assets as AUM despite concerns
raised by others.
5.
Based on the foregoing, and by the acts and omissions described below, Bögli was
a cause of Credit Suisse’s violations of certain antifraud and reporting provisions of the federal
securities laws.
B.

Respondent

6.
Rolf Bögli, age 52, joined Credit Suisse in 2009. At all times relevant to this Order,
Bögli was Chief Operating Officer of Credit Suisse’s Private Banking division, reporting to the
division’s Chief Executive Officer. This was an administrative position in the Private Bank, and
did not involve client interaction. Bögli was involved in overseeing the asset reclassification
process and had authority to approve asset reclassifications of up to CHF 500 million.
C.

Related Party

7.
Credit Suisse AG (“Credit Suisse”) is a corporation organized under the laws of
Switzerland. Directly and through its subsidiaries and affiliates, it operates a global financial
services business in more than 50 countries with over 45,000 employees, including 9,000 U.S.
employees. The Private Bank includes Credit Suisse’s wealth management business, which serves
ultra-high net worth and high net worth individuals around the globe and private clients in
2

Switzerland. Credit Suisse furnishes quarterly reports to the Commission as exhibits to Form 6-K
and files annual reports with the Commission on Form 20-F.
D.

Net New Assets and Assets Under Management

8.
Credit Suisse’s primary regulator in Switzerland, the Swiss Financial Market
Supervisory Authority (“FINMA”), promulgated a rule regarding the recognition and disclosure of
AUM and NNA. The FINMA rule provides banks with significant latitude regarding when NNA
can be recognized and requires Swiss banks to further establish their own criteria to implement it.
During the relevant period, Credit Suisse’s policies and procedures for recognizing AUM and
NNA were overly broad and provided limited guidance regarding the proper application of the
policy. As a consequence, Bögli and other employees took advantage of the flexibility and latitude
they afforded in order to meet targets.
9.
Credit Suisse divided client assets into two categories: AUM and Assets Under
Custody (“AUC”). AUM were assets for which the Private Bank actively provided investment
advice or discretionary asset management services. By contrast, AUC were assets held solely for
transaction-related or safekeeping/custody purposes, where the Private Bank did not provide
specific advice regarding asset allocation or investment decisions. Assets classified as AUM
typically generated higher profit margins for Credit Suisse than AUC due to the fees earned
through the provision of financial advice and asset management services.
10.
Credit Suisse tracked and reported quarterly as NNA the total net inflow of AUM
from new and existing clients.
11.
NNA could be increased in two ways: either by bringing new business into the
Bank, or reclassifying AUC to AUM when clients indicated a change in intent and sought advice
or management on assets previously classified as AUC. Reclassifications over CHF 500 million
could only be approved by a designated committee in Group Finance (“Group AUM Committee”).
The conduct at issue in this Order relates to Credit Suisse’s reclassifications of AUC to AUM.
12.
NNA was one of several key performance indicators tracked by Credit Suisse and
used in external presentations. Credit Suisse senior management established targets for NNA.
Certain members of senior management, tracked progress towards target numbers, and discussed
current NNA on a regular basis. Bögli communicated with the heads of various business areas
within the Private Bank to press them to meet NNA targets. In its public statements and
presentations, Credit Suisse and its management promoted positive NNA results to investors and
analysts. Equity analyst reports often included discussions of NNA results in their coverage of
Credit Suisse.
E.

Written NNA Disclosures During the Relevant Period

13.
Credit Suisse disclosed the Private Bank’s NNA in its quarterly and annual reports.
These disclosures were required by FINMA. Pursuant to this requirement, Credit Suisse adopted
internal guidelines that established criteria for realizing NNA in various circumstances, including
the reclassifications of AUC to AUM. The specified criteria generally revolved around a
determination regarding the client’s intent and the banking services provided with respect to the
3

assets. If there was sufficient evidence suggesting that the client intended to place the assets with
Credit Suisse for investment purposes, and Credit Suisse provided investment advice to the client,
the assets could be recognized as AUM, thereby generating an inflow of NNA. Consistent with
these internal criteria, Credit Suisse informed investors in its written disclosures that “[t]he
classification of assets under management is individually assessed on the basis of each client’s
intentions and objectives and the banking services provided to the client.”
14.
In addition to disclosing global NNA, Credit Suisse also included in its disclosures
a table that provided investors with a breakdown of NNA by business area and by region.
15.
Credit Suisse’s written disclosures reflected that Credit Suisse had in place and
followed established rules and policies regarding decisions to reclassify AUC as AUM. Contrary
to this disclosure, as described below, as the result of negligent conduct, Bögli at times caused
NNA decisions to be driven by a desire to meet NNA targets.
F.

Fourth Quarter of 2011

16.
In the fourth quarter of 2011, Credit Suisse reclassified assets belonging to an ultrahigh net worth client, Client A. Client A was a long-standing client of Credit Suisse who received
investment advice from the bank. The bank earned revenue from investment activity serving
Client A in this quarter. Over the course of 2011, there were inflows of new assets for Client A,
which were classified as AUC.
17.
The reclassification of a portion of the new AUC assets was influenced by the
desire to reach targets: as a Credit Suisse Relationship Manager (“RM”) with knowledge of Client
A’s account summarized in an email, “the aim is to reclass an amount in the range of [over CHF 1
billion] before year end. Exact timing and amount has not been decided since it depends on the
final NNA requirement . . .” The RM proposed a smaller reclassification to protect against the risk
that the client would move assets from Credit Suisse. Other Credit Suisse employees also favored
smaller reclassifications. Bögli wrote to other employees involved in the asset reclassification
process, invoking the name of his supervisor, a Senior Executive of Private Banking, stating the
Senior Executive “definitely wants to have” reclassified Client A assets “included in the next NNA
forecast.” Over CHF 1 billion of Client A assets were reclassified from AUC to AUM in the
fourth quarter of 2011.
G.

First Quarter of 2012

18.
In the early 2000s, Client B, a Private Bank client who owned a company,
deposited a significant portion of the outstanding shares of that company with Credit Suisse’s U.S.
operation, Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC.
19.
In an email dated February 27, 2012, Bögli informed his direct reports that “our
NNA results . . . have been very disappointing up until now. As our capability to attract clients and
new assets is of utmost importance – also externally – we need to take all possible measures in
order to change this into a positive story within the next few weeks.”

4

20.
In late February, Credit Suisse evaluated whether a portion of Client B’s assets
should be reclassified from AUC to AUM, thereby generating NNA. On February 27, 2012, one
Credit Suisse employee summarized the status of Client B’s assets: “Currently these assets are still
classified as custody assets until the mandate changes and we start to actively manage the portfolio
...”
21.
On March 7, 2012, a Credit Suisse employee responsible for reviewing NNA
(“NNA Reviewing Employee”) in the U.S., reached the conclusion that circumstances did not
merit a reclassification of the majority of Client B’s assets: “For the remaining custody assets . . .
based on information from [the RM], the contractual situation is not robust enough to allow us to
initiate classification as NNA at the current point in time.”
22.
Meanwhile, Bögli continued to press his subordinates to identify sources of NNA,
including from Client B. In mid-March, despite being informed by his subordinate that a
reclassification of Client B’s assets was “not expected to happen in March, more likely [a] Q2
event,” Bögli wrote: “Any option to speed this up? We need this inflow in March!”
23.
Credit Suisse employees began preparing a justification for reclassifying a
significant portion of the assets as AUM, which would generate NNA. Certain Credit Suisse
Executives who reviewed the draft justification expressed concerns that it did not identify evidence
of a change in the client’s intent. In response to these questions, Bögli and Credit Suisse
employees reporting to Bögli agreed to prepare a revised draft justification. Bögli was not directly
involved in drafting the final justification. The final justification contained the following language:
“The key event for a Q1 asset reclassification occurred on February 22, when the client made his
final decision to abandon his plans to move his residency [to another country], i.e., continuing to
reside in the USA and to remain a US tax person. [Client B] communicated to [Credit Suisse] that
Credit Suisse will be his wealth manager of choice . . . .”
24.
Client B’s choice of tax residency, identified as the “key event,” was irrelevant to
the question of whether Client B assets were properly classified as AUM. Further, there is no
evidence that Client B told his PB USA advisors on the February 22 call that the Private Bank was
his “wealth manager of choice.”
25.
Although the Private Bank did not typically require or receive signed investment
mandates from its wealth management clients, a member of the Audit Committee inquired of a
Credit Suisse Senior Executive in advance of the Audit Committee discussion of the quarterly
report: “[H]ave we actually received a signed mandate to manage [Client B’s] funds?” He also
asked, “Was the mandate signed in Q1?” The Credit Suisse Senior Executive passed these
inquiries to Bögli, who responded that “[a]s far as the document is concerned: the clients family
office has signed off the services agreement including terms already.” While Client B’s family
office had agreed to the terms of a Services Agreement, Client B had not signed an investment
mandate.
26.
Over CHF 4 billion in Client B assets were reclassified from AUC to AUM in the
first quarter of 2012. That amount constituted more than 75% of the NNA reported by Credit
Suisse’s wealth management business for the first quarter of 2012.
5

H.

Second Quarter of 2012

27.
During Credit Suisse’s second quarter of 2012, Credit Suisse made another large
asset reclassification that contributed over half of the Private Bank’s NNA for the quarter. This
reclassification was again influenced by the desire to reach targets. Bögli pressured other Credit
Suisse employees to reclassify the assets.
28.
Client C was an ultra-high net worth client with several accounts at Credit Suisse,
including a single, concentrated stock position in a company (“Company”). Credit Suisse provided
investment advice to Client C and received revenue from servicing Client C in the second quarter
of 2012.
29.
At the end of the second quarter of 2012, an NNA Reviewing Employee reviewed
all of the large client relationships with large AUC positions within his geographic region, as was
the employee’s practice at the end of each quarter. It was the employee’s responsibility to
determine which, if any, of these client assets could be appropriately reclassified from AUC to
AUM.
30.
Among the accounts that the NNA Reviewing Employee reviewed were the
accounts of Client C. The employee determined that it would be prudent to wait another three to
six months before considering reclassifying Client C’s assets from AUC to AUM, to see whether
the client actually implemented Credit Suisse’s investment advice and invested additional assets
through Credit Suisse.
31.
In July 2012, while Credit Suisse was preparing its NNA-related disclosures for the
second quarter of 2012 and after the NNA Reviewing Employee had completed his review and
determined not to propose reclassifying Client C’s assets, Bögli asked the NNA Reviewing
Employee to identify additional NNA. Expressing his disappointment with Credit Suisse’s NNA
prospects at the time, Bögli communicated the need for a large reclassification, stating: “We need
to do something pretty big. Need your flexibility and will ensure compensation of potential
negative future impacts.” In this message, Bögli promised what was called “outflow protection.”
While an RM’s compensation normally would be negatively impacted if assets that were
recognized as AUM left the bank, Bögli promised that the outflows in this case would not impact
the compensation of Client C’s RM.
32.
In response to the requests of Bögli, the Credit Suisse employee identified a Client
C account with the single concentrated stock position. He wrote to the Credit Suisse senior
manager to inform him about the prospect, but cautioned, “it’s a stretch.” He later suggested that
perhaps 40% of the position be reclassified. Bögli responded: “[C]an we take 50%?” The
employee said he would try to make the case to reclassify 50%, but “the case will not be easy to
make . . . .” In response, Bögli wrote: “We need the case!!”
33.
Credit Suisse employees drafted a justification for the reclassification of Client C
assets in the second quarter of 2012. The draft justification relied on the fact that there had been a
recent listing of stock underlying the Client C assets on a major exchange, and characterized the
listing as the “trigger event.” It stated: “In Q2 2012, the listing of the [Company shares on the
6

major exchange] was successfully executed, which is essential to enhance the advisory services to
the client . . . This [] listing serves as the basis for an active investment advice of this position as
access to capital/liquidity is now given.” However, this purported “trigger” did not take place in
the second quarter of 2012, but rather in the final quarter of 2011. The minutes of Credit Suisse’s
Group AUM Committee, which was charged with the final reclassification determination, focused
on and discussed this justification. The minutes also refer to another document that identifies the
one-time receipt by the Private Bank of revenue in the form of Single Global Currency (“SGC”) as
a justification for the reclassification.2
34.
During the process, a Credit Suisse Senior NNA Executive posed questions about
the proposed reclassification, asking what constituted the “trigger” for the reclassification: “Am I
correct in thinking that what you have concluded is that the event which occurred with respect to
the additional assets being reclassified in Q2 from Custody to AUM is the listing that occurred
during Q2 2012? Other than that it seems all the same facts were in place before Q2.” A Credit
Suisse employee responded to the questions from the Senior NNA Executive using language that
suggested that the purported trigger—the listing—took place in the second quarter of 2012. He
went on to reference a one-time receipt of SGC.
35.
In the second quarter of 2012, nearly CHF 2 billion in Client C assets were
reclassified from AUC to AUM. The resulting NNA constituted approximately 33% of the CHF
5.5 billion total NNA reported by Credit Suisse’s wealth management business in the quarter.
I.

Third Quarter of 2012
i.

Client D

36.
In the third quarter of 2012, NNA forecasts were falling short of targets. As Bögli
wrote on October 2, 2012, “The NNA [for the Private Bank’s Swiss business] turned out to be
much lower than assumed in the forecast. For this reason we urgently need to examine
reclassification options.”
37.
Bögli and other Credit Suisse employees began to discuss whether to reclassify
certain assets of Client D, an ultra-high net worth client whose assets were concentrated across a
handful of stock positions, from AUC to AUM. Certain emails reflecting the reclassification
discussion did not address the client’s investment intentions. Rather, they focused on whether the
reclassification was needed to meet the target for the quarter. One Credit Suisse employee wrote to
Bögli about two other potential sources of NNA for the third quarter, and added: “We will of
course have to bring [Client D] into play if one of these factors fails to [materialize].” Bögli
replied with news of another negative NNA development, and concluded, “[so] we will need the
[Client D assets].”

2

SGC is compensation paid to the Private Bank from another division within the bank for
services rendered to a client. Under current Credit Suisse policy, which was not in force at
the time of this reclassification, SGC revenues that are ongoing are viewed as a strong
indicator of the Private Bank’s contribution in serving a client.
7

38.
Client D’s RM did not agree with the contemplated reclassification because he
believed it was premature.
39.
Bögli sought to avoid submitting any decision to reclassify Client D assets to Credit
Suisse’s finance group, as would have been required if the proposed reclassification exceeded $500
million. One Credit Suisse employee noted that Bögli “agrees that we won’t take [reclassify] the
[Client D assets] if this would mean going through the [finance] group,” but rather “we should be
able to show something [a reclassification to AUM] that is more or less in the same range.”3
40.
Ultimately, Credit Suisse opted not to reclassify Client D’s assets in the third
quarter of 2012.
ii.

Client B

41.
No Client B assets were reclassified in the third quarter. However, Credit Suisse
reallocated to the Swiss region half of the NNA related to Client B that had been attributed solely
to the “Americas” region in previous periods. The reallocation caused the NNA number for the
Swiss region to be positive for the quarter, suggesting that the Swiss business had generated a
positive amount of NNA in the third quarter, when in fact it had not.
42.
The first quarter reclassification of Client B assets described above was split evenly
between Credit Suisse’s Americas and Swiss regions in the Private Bank’s quarterly disclosures.
Credit Suisse managers justified the split as, among other things, recognizing the contribution of
certain Swiss region bankers in winning the 2011 “beauty contest.” There were over 3 billion
Swiss francs in additional assets related to Client B that were recognized in the first and second
quarters but were attributed solely to the Americas region because American and Swiss managers
were not able to agree on how to allocate the assets between the regions. The decision whether to
implement a regional split for these assets was deferred until the third quarter.
43.
Bögli and other Credit Suisse employees pressed a Credit Suisse senior manager in
the Americas region (“Americas Senior Manager”) to agree to a 50/50 regional split of NNA credit
between the Swiss region and Americas region, which would have the impact of moving third
quarter Swiss NNA from a negative number to positive number. Bögli was concerned regarding
asset outflows for the Swiss Private Bank business. Some of these outflows stemmed from efforts
to integrate Clariden Leu, a smaller private bank that Credit Suisse had purchased. Bögli was
concerned at the time because, as a result of the outflows, the Swiss Private Bank had negative
NNA for the quarter. In or about October 2012, Bögli proposed to the Americas Senior Manager
that Credit Suisse allocate to the Swiss business in the third quarter one half of the Client B assets
that had been recognized as NNA solely in the Americas in previous periods.
44.
As a result, Credit Suisse added approximately CHF 1.5 billion to the Swiss NNA
figures for the quarter. To offset this amount, Credit Suisse subtracted the same amount from the
Americas NNA figure for the quarter. The Americas reflected approximately CHF 1.5 billion less
3

Per Credit Suisse’s policy, reclassifications of over $500 million were to be decided by a
committee independent of the Private Bank business.
8

NNA than it had for the quarter, and the Swiss reflected positive net inflows, even though it
otherwise would have reported negative outflows for the quarter. The overall NNA number for the
Private Bank was unaffected.
J.

Fourth Quarter of 2012

45.
At the end of the fourth quarter of 2012, Credit Suisse was again faced with NNA
that fell short of targets. On January 8, 2013, Bögli again pressured other Credit Suisse employees
to identify NNA. As he had done in previous quarters, the senior manager invoked certain senior
executives of the Private Bank. He wrote to subordinates that the senior executives at Credit
Suisse “want[ed] to get as close as possible to 5 billion” in NNA. Bögli noted, “we need another
billion,” and then asked, “can we move [Client A] in that direction?”
46.
As described above, Client A was an ultra-high net worth client, some of whose
assets had already been reclassified from AUC to AUM in the fourth quarter of 2011. The NNA
Reviewing Employee had already reviewed Client A’s accounts in connection with his quarterly
review, and had determined not to propose reclassifying any assets from AUC to AUM.
47.
On January 8, 2013, a Credit Suisse employee wrote to Bögli: “I can’t see a
possibility for [Client A] because we have no trigger.” Bögli responded: “We must try to ‘derive’
a trigger for [Client A].”
48.
A Credit Suisse manager then wrote to a Credit Suisse employee and asked him to
have “another review of the [Client A] position.” In response to this request, the employee
identified another account holding approximately CHF 550 million of Client A’s assets. This
separate account was set up and funded for this client in the fourth quarter to hold investments in
U.S. equities. The assets were classified as AUM in the fourth quarter.
49.
Separately, in the fourth quarter, Credit Suisse again considered reclassification of
Client D assets, which had been considered but did not take place in the previous quarter. In this
quarter, Credit Suisse had executed a bridge loan to this client, earned revenues on the loan, and
executed a sale of stock worth several million Swiss francs.
50.
Client D’s RM again argued against reclassifying Client D assets in the fourth
quarter of 2012. The RM posed substantive concerns about the reclassification of Client D assets:
“We are 100% certain that there will be an outflow of at least CHF 100 million in . . . 2013.” The
RM went on to describe the amounts and purposes of specific outflows that were expected. In
addition, there had recently been significant outflows in 2012. “Outflow protection” was again
promised so that the expected outflows of Client D assets would not impact the compensation of
the RM.
51.
Despite the concerns of Client D’s RM, Bögli replied, “[Client D] is no longer
negotiable,” and Credit Suisse reclassified approximately CHF 500 million in Client D assets from
AUC to AUM in the fourth quarter of 2012. That amount represented approximately 17% of the
CHF 2.9 billion total NNA reported by Credit Suisse’s wealth management business in the quarter.

9

52.
Based on the conduct described above, Credit Suisse’s practices relating to the
process for recognizing NNA through reclassification were inconsistent with Credit Suisse’s
disclosures. Credit Suisse’s NNA disclosures were misleading. Bögli was a cause of the resulting
violations.

K.

Violations

53.
As a result of the negligent conduct described above, Bögli was a cause of Credit
Suisse’s violations of the following provisions:
a.
Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act, which prohibits, directly or
indirectly, in the offer or sale of securities, obtaining money or property by means of any untrue
statement of a material fact or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the
statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;
b.
Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, which prohibits, directly or
indirectly, in the offer or sale of securities, engaging in any transaction, practice, or course of
business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser; and
c.
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-16, and 12b-20
thereunder, which require foreign private issuers with securities registered pursuant to Section 12
of the Exchange Act to file or furnish with the Commission annual and other reports as the
Commission may require, and mandate that the reports contain such further material information as
may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange
Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent shall cease-and-desist from committing or causing any violations and
any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, and Section 13(a) of
the Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-1, 13a-16, and 12b-20 thereunder; and
B.
Respondent shall, within ninety (90) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil
money penalty in the amount of $80,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for remission
to the United States Treasury. If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1)
Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;
10

(2)
Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
(3)
Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and handdelivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Rolf Bögli
as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the
cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Laura B. Josephs, Assistant Director,
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington,
D.C. 20549-5010.
By the Commission.
Brent J. Fields
Secretary

11

