ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17273
SEC Charges San Diego Attorney with Fraudulently Hiding His Control of a Company in
an Unsuccessful IPO
June 2, 2016 – The Securities and Exchange Commission today announced that a San Diego
attorney has agreed to settle charges that he engaged in fraud by hiding his control of NuGold
Resources, Inc. in a registration statement filed with the SEC in his unsuccessful attempt to take
NuGold public.
An SEC investigation found that Donald J. Stoecklein prepared and filed a registration statement
on behalf of NuGold. In reality, Stoecklein controlled and directed virtually all of NuGold’s
operations. For instance, the company’s registration statement stated that the CEO had provided
its initial capitalization when in reality Stoecklein had. Furthermore, NuGold’s registration
statement did not identify Stoecklein’s role or disclose that the SEC previously ordered him to
cease and desist from future securities registration and antifraud violations. These statements
and omissions were repeated in the nine amendments to NuGold’s registration statement, all of
which Stoecklein prepared.
The SEC’s order instituting a settled administrative proceeding finds that Stoecklein violated
Sections 17(a)(1) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933. Without admitting or denying the
findings, Stoecklein agreed to be censured, ordered to cease and desist from future violations and
pay an $80,000 civil penalty, and barred from being an officer or director of a public company
and participating in any penny stock offerings. In addition, Stoecklein agreed to the entry of an
order permanently suspending him from appearing and practicing before the SEC as an attorney.
The order prohibits Stoecklein from representing clients in SEC matters, including
investigations, litigation, or examinations, and from advising clients about SEC filing obligations
or content.
The SEC today also instituted an order prohibiting NuGold’s registration statement from
becoming effective.
The SEC’s investigation was conducted by Roberto Tercero of the Commission’s Los Angeles
Regional Office as part of the Microcap Fraud Task Force.
See also:

Order – Stoecklein
SEC Order – NuGold

