UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 8639 / December 1, 2005
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 52863 / December 1, 2005
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 2453 / December 1, 2005
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 27172 / December 1, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-12116

In the Matter of

MILLENNIUM PARTNERS, L.P.,
MILLENNIUM MANAGEMENT,
L.L.C., MILLENNIUM
INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT,
L.L.C., ISRAEL ENGLANDER,
TERENCE FEENEY, FRED STONE,
AND KOVAN PILLAI,

Respondents.

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF
THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933,
SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
SECTIONS 203(e) AND 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940, SECTION 9(b) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF
1940 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE
COMMISSION’S RULES OF
PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS,
AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL
SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-ANDDESIST ORDER
I.

The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 21C
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Millennium Partners, L.P.




(“Millennium Partners”), Millennium Management, L.L.C. (“Millennium Management”),
Millennium International Management, L.L.C. (“Millennium International Management”) (the
three entities collectively, “Millennium”), Israel Englander, Terence Feeney, Fred Stone and
Kovan Pillai (collectively with Millennium, “Respondents”); Section 203(e) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Millennium Management and Millennium
International Management; Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act against Pillai; Section 9(b) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Englander, Feeney, and
Stone; and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii)1 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Stone.
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, the Respondents have submitted
Offers of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and over the subject matter of these
proceedings, the Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21C
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sections 203(e) and 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act
of 1940, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules
of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order
(“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and the Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds2 that:
Respondents
1.
Millennium Management, L.L.C. is a Delaware limited liability company that is
the managing partner of Millennium Partners, L.P. and the general partner of Millennium USA,
L.P., the domestic feeder fund of Millennium Partners. Millennium Management also acts as the
unregistered investment adviser (under an exemption from registration) to Millennium Partners and
Millennium USA. Englander is the managing member of Millennium Management.

1

Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in relevant part, that:
The Commission may deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing
or practicing before it to any person who is found . . . to have willfully violated, or
willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities
laws or the rules or regulations thereunder.

2

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.
2


2.
Millennium International Management, L.L.C. is a Delaware limited liability
company that is the unregistered investment adviser (under an exemption from registration) for
Millennium International, Ltd., the international feeder fund of Millennium Partners. Englander is
the managing member of Millennium International Management.
3.
Millennium Partners, L.P., an exempted limited partnership organized in the
Cayman Islands, is a hedge fund that maintains its principal place of business in New York, New
York. Englander (Caymans Islands), Ltd. and Millennium Management are co-general partners of
Millennium Partners. During the relevant period, Millennium Partners had approximately $4.0
billion in assets under management. Currently, Millennium Partners has approximately $5.3
billion in assets under management.
4.
Israel Alexander Englander, age 57 and a resident of New York, New York, is
the managing member of Millennium Management and of Millennium International Management.
He is the largest beneficial owner in Millennium Partners. Englander currently holds Series 7 and
24 securities licenses and previously held Series 4, 55 and 63 securities licenses.
5.
Terence William Feeney, age 48 and a resident of Manhasset, New York, is the
Chief Operating Officer (“COO”) and vice chairman of the Millennium entities.
6.
Fred Michael Stone, age 62 and a resident of Manalapan, New Jersey, is
Millennium’s General Counsel and reports to a newly created Chief Legal Officer (“CLO”).
During the relevant period, Stone served as Millennium’s General Counsel and was in charge of
compliance. In March 2004, after Millennium had ceased the conduct described herein,
Millennium hired a new CLO to be responsible for Millennium’s compliance program.
7.
Kovan Krishnasamy Pillai, age 46 and a resident of New York, New York, is a
trader at Millennium. Pillai holds Series 3, 7, and 63 securities licenses. Pillai is associated with
both Millennium Management and Millennium International Management.
Relevant Individual
8.
Steven B. Markovitz, age 41, is a resident of New York, New York. From 1999 to
September 2003, Markovitz was employed as a trader at Millennium. On October 2, 2003, the
Commission issued an Order, by consent, finding that Markovitz willfully violated Section 17(a) of
the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and caused
violations of Rule 22c-1 of the Investment Company Act by engaging in late trading of mutual
fund shares while employed at Millennium, ordering Markovitz to cease and desist from
committing or causing violations and future violations of those provisions of the federal securities
laws, barring Markovitz from association with any investment adviser, and prohibiting Markovitz
from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment
adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated
person of such investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter. Also on October 2, 2003,
Markovitz pled guilty to a Class E felony under New York’s Martin Act, which prohibits schemes
to defraud in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
3


Summary
9.
From at least 1999 to 2003, Millennium Partners, Millennium Management, and
Millennium International Management generated tens of millions of dollars in profits through
market timing trades of mutual fund shares, a practice which mutual funds generally discouraged.
Englander, Feeney, Stone and Pillai knew that mutual funds sought to detect market timers and
frequently blocked Millennium’s trades and, therefore, devised and carried out a fraudulent scheme
to avoid detection and circumvent restrictions that the mutual funds imposed on market timing.
Specifically, Millennium: (1) created approximately 100 legal entities to hide that Millennium was
behind the mutual fund trading; (2) used those entities to create in excess of 1,000 accounts; (3)
structured its trading to avoid detection by the mutual funds; (4) used omnibus accounts and
variable annuities to further hide Millennium’s identity; and (5) took advantage of certain “sticky”
asset arrangements.
Background
10.
Market timing includes: (i) frequent buying and selling of shares of the same
mutual fund or (ii) buying or selling mutual fund shares in order to exploit inefficiencies in mutual
fund pricing. Market timing, while not illegal per se, can harm other mutual fund shareholders
because it can dilute the value of their shares, if the market timer is exploiting pricing
inefficiencies, or disrupt the management of the mutual fund’s investment portfolio and can cause
the targeted mutual fund to incur costs to accommodate frequent buying and selling of shares by
the market timer. Mutual funds generally frown on market timing and discourage market timers
from either investing in a mutual fund or from engaging in timing activity if a timer does invest.
11.
Market timers also use variable annuities to engage in market timing. Variable
annuities are securities that are insurance contracts that provide for tax-deferred accumulation
during the accumulation period and various payout options, including a series of payments to be
made to a person named as the “annuitant” in the contract. The payments typically come at the
annuitant’s retirement. Hedge funds and others that engage in market timing through variable
annuities, however, do not purchase the products in order to obtain the retirement income. Rather,
they purchase variable annuities to be able to market time the underlying mutual fund portfolios.
Assets invested in variable annuities are used to purchase securities, and the size of the payments to
the annuitant typically depends on the performance of the underlying securities. Variable annuity
products typically offer access to mutual funds. Contract owners are able to invest in a variety of
mutual funds at several mutual fund complexes through subaccounts of the insurance company that
hold shares of the funds. Funds underlying variable annuity products are offered to insurance
company separate accounts and certain tax-qualified retirement plans, but are not sold to the
general public. In some cases, the funds are patterned on and managed similarly to corresponding
retail funds offered by the fund complex. The variable insurance company and a mutual fund
complex enter into participation agreements. In general, the annuity contracts allow the contract
owner to place securities orders with the variable insurance company. These orders are then
aggregated and transmitted to the mutual fund complex on a net basis. Because issuers of variable
annuities aggregate trades in their contracted fund complexes and transmit the trades on a net basis,
4


trading through variable annuity contracts can hide the identity of timers, facilitating their timing
activity.
Facts
A.

Millennium’s Structure

12.
In 1989, Englander formed Millennium Partners, an “alternative investment fund”
that engages in multi-strategy proprietary trading through a “master feeder” structure – an
arrangement where investors’ money is initially placed into smaller feeder funds and then pooled
into one large fund (or master fund), Millennium Partners. The two so-called “feeder” funds are
Millennium USA, L.P., which is used to receive investments made by domestic investors, and
Millennium International, Ltd., which is used for investments made by international investors.
These two feeders then in turn invest substantially all their assets in Millennium Partners.
Millennium Management is the managing partner of and investment adviser to Millennium USA
and Millennium Partners. Englander is Millennium Management’s managing member.
Millennium International Management is the investment adviser to Millennium International, Ltd.
Englander is also the managing member of Millennium International Management.
13.
During the relevant period, Englander controlled Millennium and was the beneficial
owner of approximately 10 percent of Millennium Partners, the hedge fund. Feeney, the COO,
reported to Englander and was in charge of the day-to-day operations at Millennium. Part of
Feeney’s responsibilities included approving the creation of new legal entities and approving the
opening of new accounts for Millennium’s traders. From early 2000 until March 2004, Stone was
Millennium’s General Counsel and reported to Feeney. Stone’s responsibilities included
overseeing Millennium’s compliance function and providing legal advice to Millennium,
Englander and Feeney. Pillai was one of Millennium’s 64 traders and one of four traders at
Millennium participating in market timing.
B.

Millennium’s Fraudulent Scheme

14.
Mutual funds generally disapprove of market timing and discourage market timers
from either investing in a mutual fund or from engaging in timing activity if a timer does invest. In
numerous instances, mutual funds blocked Millennium, which was known to engage in market
timing trading (among its other strategies) from future purchases when the mutual funds
determined that Millennium had engaged in market timing. Englander, Stone, Feeney and Pillai
were aware that mutual funds frequently blocked Millennium’s market timing trades. To keep
market timing capacity (and the profits that flowed from it) available in the face of hundreds of
block letters and notices from mutual fund families, Millennium embarked on a multi-pronged
fraudulent scheme to conceal its identity, mislead the mutual funds, and evade the mutual funds’
market timing detection processes. As part of the scheme, Millennium cloned entities and
accounts, structured its market timing trades, traded through omnibus accounts, traded mutual
funds through variable annuity contracts, and took advantage of certain “sticky” asset
arrangements that had been established by certain broker-dealers.

5


15.
In the fall of 1999, Markovitz approached Englander with a market timing trading
strategy that consisted of frequent trading of mutual fund shares based upon the percentage rise or
fall in the U.S. markets. Specifically, if the U.S. markets closed up more than .5%, Millennium
would purchase shares of U.S. mutual funds that invested in foreign securities, hoping that the
foreign markets would rally behind a strong day in the U.S. markets. Conversely, if the U.S.
markets performed poorly, Millennium would sell any long positions that it maintained in these
mutual funds. Englander hired Markovitz, and by the end of 1999, Millennium had developed an
active market timing strategy. From 2000 to 2003, Millennium and Englander deployed at times
up to 25 percent of Millennium’s assets in market timing strategies. During this time period,
mutual funds became more vigilant in policing the trading in their funds in an effort to curb market
timing trading. As a result, Millennium’s market timing traders found it increasingly difficult to
trade into and out of the most profitable mutual funds. Undeterred, Millennium and its senior
management, including Englander, Feeney, Stone, and its traders, particularly Pillai and
Markovitz, devised and implemented a fraudulent scheme to conceal Millennium’s identity to
mislead the mutual funds.
1.

Millennium Cloned Trading Entities and Accounts

16.
Millennium’s “cloning” strategy was made up of a variety of practices, all designed
to hide its identity as a market timer from the targeted mutual fund families. First, Millennium
created approximately 100 new legal entities, usually limited liability companies, which generally
had unique tax identification numbers to execute mutual fund trades. Millennium created and
shelved several new LLCs at a time so that there were always LLCs “in reserve” if Millennium and
its traders needed them. When a mutual fund family identified Millennium, or one of
Millennium’s LLCs, as a market timer and blocked them from trading, Millennium simply took a
reserve LLC off its shelf and began timing the mutual fund family through a new account in the
name of the new LLC, thereby concealing its identity from the blocking mutual fund family.
Using the approximately 100 entities, Millennium opened approximately 1,000 brokerage accounts
at approximately 39 different clearing brokers.
17.
Englander, Feeney and Stone all were involved in and approved the creation of
these legal entities and knew that their primary purpose was to allow the traders, including Pillai
and Markovitz, to deceive the mutual funds by evading market timing restrictions. In June 2002,
Pillai wrote an e-mail to Englander stating the necessity of trading through entities that had unique
tax identification numbers in order to “shield [Millennium] from [mutual] fund crackdowns.”
Additionally, Englander personally signed nearly all of the applications for new tax identification
numbers. Feeney supervised Stone, who with another Millennium employee (the “Millennium
Employee”), formed the new legal entities and opened new accounts, which Feeney approved by
signing nearly all of the operating agreements for the LLCs. In one instance, the Millennium
Employee specifically relayed to Feeney that the creation of new LLCs with unique tax
identification numbers, which Feeney approved, was necessary to “hide” Millennium’s market
timing activity. Stone chose names for the LLCs that were specifically intended to hide
Millennium’s relationship to the LLCs. In some instances, Stone strung together the names of
various Millennium employees to avoid name association with Millennium. When the Millennium
Employee began working at Millennium in 2001, Stone instructed the employee to choose names
6


that hid Millennium’s relationship to the LLC, and Stone approved the use of the names that the
Millennium Employee chose.
2.

Millennium Traded Through Variable Annuities

18.
As another part of its fraudulent scheme, Millennium, through its market timing
traders, including Markovitz and Pillai, engaged in market timing trading through variable annuity
contracts, employing a number of deceptive practices to avoid detection by mutual funds that had
already identified and blocked Millennium (or one of its LLCs) as a market timer. Variable
annuities were an attractive vehicle for Millennium to gain market timing capacity because issuers
of variable annuities aggregate trades in their contracted fund complexes and transmit the trades on
a net basis. Thus, trading through variable annuity contracts can hide the identity of timers,
facilitating their timing activity. In December 2001, Pillai informed Feeney of this feature in
connection with a variable annuity trading strategy and stated that his market timing trades would
therefore “be disguised.” Indeed, the primary purpose for purchasing certain annuities was to
market time in funds that were known to be hostile to timers.
19.
Like many mutual fund families, certain annuity issuers knew of and were opposed
to timers using the annuity contracts to engage in market timing and took steps to limit the timers’
activities. Millennium and Englander were aware of this issue, and were also aware that getting
“booted” by annuity issuers impeded Millennium’s timing activities and thus its profits. In an
August 2002 communication that Feeney and Englander received, Markovitz proclaimed that he
was “kicked [out] of fistfuls of annuity companies by the week.” Further, the mutual funds
underlying certain annuity contracts were also hostile to market timers and disclosed in the
prospectuses provided to annuitants that they may cancel or refuse trades from market timers.
20.
Millennium therefore employed deceptive devices to market time through annuities
where the annuity issuer was not facilitating timing activities and was not aware of Millennium’s
conduct. For example, Millennium purchased multiple annuity contracts, naming its own
employees as annuitants, but Millennium funded the contracts and all profits from the trading were
for Millennium’s benefit. In certain applications for annuity contracts, Millennium employees
misleadingly represented that the annuity was suitable for the employees’ long term investment
strategy or for their retirement investment plans. Additionally, Millennium used the home address
of certain employees, including Stone and Englander, on the annuity documents to hide
Millennium’s relationship to the annuitant. Englander, Feeney and Stone were aware of and
participated in these deceptive practices. Furthermore, Englander, Feeney and Stone were
annuitants on contracts that Millennium used to market time. Englander was an annuitant on at
least one contract. Feeney was the annuitant on 27 contracts. Stone was the annuitant in
approximately 28 contracts. Together, Feeney and Stone’s annuity contracts enabled Millennium
to make over 2,000 market timing round-trip purchases of mutual fund shares.
3.

Millennium Used Other Deceptive Devices to Augment its Scheme

21.
Because mutual funds also identified market timers by tracking registered
representative numbers and account numbers, certain registered representatives at various
brokerage firms that Millennium used in its scheme engaged in cloning practices, such as
7


alternating registered representative and account numbers to execute trades in mutual funds,
thereby circumventing the funds’ timing-detection mechanisms. In fact, Millennium specifically
made use of new registered representative numbers in order to evade certain mutual funds’ market
timing restrictions. For example, in December 2001, the Millennium Employee told Feeney that
the purpose of getting a new registered representative number was to “enable [Pillai] to re-enter
funds that he had been restricted from.” Each cloning practice was intended to evade various
detection processes that mutual funds used to identify and track market timers, and Millennium
used its cloning strategy specifically to mislead the mutual funds into believing that its market
timing purchases were coming from different customers or brokers.
22.
As an added layer of deception, Millennium, with Feeney’s knowledge, similarly
employed structured trading strategies to further disguise its timing activities from mutual funds.
Some mutual funds detected timers by monitoring trades with high dollar value, and Millennium,
therefore, tried to fly “under the fund managers’ radar” by breaking up large trades into several
smaller trades to hide its timing activity. Further, because mutual funds looked more closely at full
redemptions, Millennium often left small positions when trading out of a mutual fund to avoid
raising the mutual fund’s suspicions. Millennium also selected clearing brokers who aggregated
trades in omnibus accounts that concealed the identities of the individual entities making the trades.
In June 2003, Pillai informed Feeney (who informed Englander) of Pillai’s request to use omnibus
accounts to keep Millennium’s market timing transactions “relatively inconspicuous.” These
structured trading and omnibus account trading strategies were specifically intended to hide
Millennium’s market timing activities from mutual funds, and Millennium used them to augment
and supplement its cloning strategies.
23.
In certain instances, Millennium, with Englander and Feeney’s knowledge and
approval, deployed “sticky” assets, through broker-dealers, in order to obtain timing capacity that
the brokers had “negotiated” with the mutual funds. In an email in early 2003, Pillai informed
Englander that Millennium had “40 million deployed as domestic sticky money.” Pillai also
described one further sticky asset arrangement, for which Feeney arranged funding, in which
Millennium obtained $15 million of market timing capacity through the deployment of $30 million
of “sticky” money. Additionally, in early 2003, Markovitz characterized sticky money to
Englander as “bribe money” necessary to gain market timing capacity.
24.
The lengths to which Millennium went to disguise its association with market
timing included renting two post office boxes from a private mail service for use when opening
new brokerage accounts. Millennium used these addresses in account opening documents in lieu
of Millennium’s office address because Millennium knew that mutual funds and others were
tracking its market timing activities by street address.
4.

Pillai’s Market Timing

25.
Pillai, a trader at Millennium, was an active market timer. Pillai knew that mutual
funds or compliance departments frequently blocked or kicked out his trades if they were too
frequent or numerous. Therefore, Pillai used a variety of deceptive practices, described above, to
evade the mutual funds’ market timing restrictions, including using structured trading, using the
different LLCs Millennium created to make it appear the trades were coming from different
8


customers not affiliated with Millennium, and taking advantage of certain “sticky” asset
arrangements that had been established by certain broker-dealers.
C.

Recent Events

26.
After the commencement of the Commission’s investigation concerning
Millennium’s fraudulent market timing scheme, Millennium Partners, Millennium Management,
and Millennium International Management:
a.
created the position of CLO and retained a senior, experienced professional
to fill that position;
b.
created the position of Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”) and retained an
experienced professional to fill that position;
c.
established, under the CLO’s supervision, an internal audit function to
(i) evaluate operational, compliance and reputational risks, (ii) formulate appropriate
policies and procedures in response to these risks, and (iii) test the efficacy and adequacy of
the policies and procedures; and
d.
retained an independent consultant, who conducted a review of Millennium
Partners, Millennium Management, and Millennium International Management’s
operations and the compliance and control functions related to them and made numerous
recommendations that Millennium Partners, Millennium Management, and Millennium
International Management have adopted and are currently implementing.
Violations
27.
As a result of the conduct described above, Millennium Partners, Millennium
Management, Millennium International Management, Englander, Feeney, Stone, and Pillai
willfully violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act in that they, by the use of the means of
instruments of transportation or communication in interstate commerce or by the use of the mails,
directly or indirectly, in the offer or sale of securities, employed devices, schemes or artifices to
defraud; obtained money or property by means of untrue statements of material fact or omissions
to state material facts necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or engaged in transactions, practices
or courses of business which operated or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon purchasers or
prospective purchasers of such securities, as described above.
28.
As a result of the conduct described above, Millennium Partners, Millennium
Management, Millennium International Management, Englander, Feeney, Stone, and Pillai
willfully violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder in that they, in
connection with the purchase or sale of securities, directly or indirectly, by the use of the means or
instrumentalities of interstate commerce, or of the mails, employed devices, schemes or artifices to
defraud; made untrue statements of material fact or omitted to state material facts necessary in
order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made,
9


not misleading; or engaged in acts, practices, or courses of business which operated or would
operate as a fraud or deceit, as described above.
Respondents’ Remedial Efforts
29.
In determining to accept the Offers, the Commission considered remedial acts
promptly undertaken by the Respondents and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.
Undertakings
30.
Millennium Partners, Millennium Management, and Millennium International
Management shall cooperate fully with the Commission in any and all investigations, litigations
or other proceedings relating to or arising from the matters described in the Order. In connection
with such cooperation, Millennium has undertaken:
a.
to produce promptly, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all
documents and other information requested by the Commission’s staff in Millennium’s
possession and control, including privileged material that is (i) within the scope of an
appropriate confidentiality agreement and (ii) generated in connection with the conduct
described herein;
b.
to use its best efforts to cause its employees to be interviewed by the
Commission’s staff at such times as the Commission’s staff reasonably may request; and
c.
to use its best efforts to cause its employees to appear and testify truthfully
and completely without service of a notice or subpoena in such investigations, depositions,
hearings or trials as the Commission’s staff reasonably may request; and that in connection
with any testimony of Millennium to be conducted at deposition, hearing or trial pursuant
to a notice or subpoena, Millennium
i.
agrees that any such notice or subpoena for Millennium’s
appearance and testimony may be served by regular mail on their attorney:
Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP
Attn: Martin L. Perschetz, Esq.
Harry S. Davis, Esq.
919 Third Avenue
New York, NY 10022; and
ii.
agrees that any such notice or subpoena for Millennium’s
appearance and testimony in an action pending in a United State District Court may
be served, and may require testimony, beyond the territorial limits imposed by the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.
31.
Englander, Feeney, Stone and Pillai shall cooperate fully with the Commission in
any and all investigations, litigations or other proceedings relating to or arising from the matters
10


described in the Order. In connection with such cooperation, Englander, Feeney, Stone and
Pillai each has undertaken:
a.
to produce promptly, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all
documents and other information requested by the Commission’s staff in his possession
and control, including privileged material that is (i) within the scope of an appropriate
confidentiality agreement and (ii) generated in connection with the conduct described
herein;
b.
to use his best efforts to be interviewed by the Commission’s staff at such
times as the Commission’s staff reasonably may request; and
c.
to use his best efforts to appear and testify truthfully and completely without
service of a notice or subpoena in such investigations, depositions, hearings or trials as the
Commission’s staff may reasonably request; and that in connection with any testimony to
be conducted at deposition, hearing or trial pursuant to a notice or subpoena, Englander,
Feeney, Stone and Pillai each
i.
agrees that any such notice or subpoena for his appearance and
testimony may be served by regular mail on his respective attorney, as follows:
For Englander: 

Dechert LLP 

Andrew J. Levander, Esq. 

30 Rockefeller Plaza 

New York, NY 10112 

For Feeney: 

Morvillo, Abramowitz, Grand, Iason & Silberberg, P.C. 

Barry A. Bohrer, Esq. 

565 Fifth Avenue 

New York, NY 10017 

For Stone: 

Latham & Watkins LLP 

David M. Brodsky, Esq. 

885 Third Avenue, Suite 1000 

New York, NY 10022 

For Pillai: 

Sadis & Goldberg LLC 

Ron S. Geffner, Esq. 

551 Fifth Avenue, 21st Floor 

New York, NY 10176; and 

ii.
agrees that any such notice or subpoena for his appearance and
testimony in an action pending in a United State District Court may be served,
11


and may require testimony, beyond the territorial limits imposed by the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure.
32.
Millennium Partners, Millennium Management, and Millennium International
Management shall comply with the following undertakings:
a.
Compliance, Legal and Ethics Oversight Committee: Within 30 days of the
date of this Order, Millennium shall create a Compliance, Legal and Ethics Oversight
Committee (the “Oversight Committee”) made up of Millennium’s CLO, Millennium’s
CCO and a third person within Millennium’s senior management to be chosen by the CLO
and the CCO together. The Oversight Committee shall be responsible for formulating
Millennium’s compliance, legal and ethics rules, policies and procedures and ensuring that
these rules, policies and procedures are appropriately implemented and enforced. The
Oversight Committee’s responsibilities shall include, at a minimum:
i.
Creating a formal code of ethics, administered either by the
Oversight Committee or by an ethics officer designated by the Oversight
Committee, and providing semiannual ethics training to Millennium’s professional
employees;
ii.
Reviewing compliance, legal, and ethics issues throughout
Millennium’s business as they arise; reporting to Millennium’s chairman and
managing partner the results of any such reviews; reporting to Millennium’s
chairman and managing partner the responsive measures theretofore taken by the
Oversight Committee and, if and to the extent necessary and appropriate,
recommending to Millennium’s chairman and managing partner additional
responsive measures;
iii.
Investigating, or causing to be investigated, possible breaches of
compliance, legal or ethical duties, rules, policies or procedures committed by any
Millennium officer, employee, agent or person acting on Millennium’s behalf;
reporting to Millennium’s chairman and managing partner the results of any such
investigations; reporting to Millennium’s chairman and managing partner the
responsive measures theretofore taken by the Oversight Committee and, if and to
the extent necessary and appropriate, recommending to Millennium’s chairman and
managing partner additional responsive measures;
iv.
Maintaining records of the Oversight Committee’s activities and
affairs and making those records available to the independent compliance
consultant referenced in Paragraph III.32.b. below;
v.
Holding at least quarterly in-person meetings to carry out the
responsibilities of the Oversight Committee; and
vi.
Holding at least quarterly in-person meetings with Millennium’s
chairman and managing partner to report on the activities of the Oversight
Committee and make any recommendations.
12


b.

Independent Compliance Consultant:

i.
Within 120 days of the date of this Order, Millennium shall retain an
independent compliance consultant (“Independent Compliance Consultant”), not
unacceptable to the staff of the Commission, to: (i) conduct a review of
Millennium’s operations and its legal, compliance, and ethics structure,
(ii) recommend any additional policies and procedures which, on the basis of its
review, the consultant believes are reasonably designed to ensure that Millennium
complies with federal and state securities laws, and (iii) submit to the Commission
staff, within 30 days of the completion of the review, a report outlining the results
of the Independent Compliance Consultant’s review, and what recommendations, if
any, the Independent Compliance Consultant made.
ii.
Millennium shall adopt the recommendations of the Independent
Compliance Consultant; provided, however, that within 60 days of the completion
of the review, Millennium shall in writing advise the Independent Compliance
Consultant and the staff of the Commission of any recommendations that it
considers to be unnecessary or inappropriate. With respect to any
recommendations that it considers to be unnecessary or inappropriate, Millennium
need not adopt that recommendation at that time but shall propose in writing an
alternative policy, procedure or system designed to achieve the same objective or
purpose. As to any recommendation on which Millennium and the Independent
Compliance Consultant do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to
reach an agreement within 90 days of the completion of the review. In the event
that Millennium and the Independent Compliance Consultant are unable to agree on
an alternative proposal acceptable to the staff of the Commission, Millennium will
abide by the determinations of the Independent Compliance Consultant.
iii.
After 18 months from the date of this Order, Millennium shall
require the Independent Compliance Consultant (i) to conduct an additional review
to determine whether Millennium adopted the above recommendations and whether
Millennium’s policies and procedures are reasonably effective in maintaining
Millennium’s compliance with federal and state securities laws, and (ii) submit to
the Commission’s staff, within 30 days of the review, a report outlining the results
of the review.
iv.
The Independent Compliance Consultant’s compensation and
expenses shall be borne exclusively by Englander, Millennium Management, or
Millennium International Management and shall not be paid or deducted from any
amounts of disgorgement or penalty paid by the Respondents under the Order. The
Respondents shall cooperate fully with the Independent Compliance Consultant
with access to their files, books, records, and personnel as reasonably requested for
the reviews.
v.
Millennium shall require that the Independent Compliance
Consultant, for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years from
13


completion of the engagement, not enter into any employment, consultant, attorneyclient, auditing or other professional relationship with Millennium, or any of its
present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their
capacity as such. Millennium shall require that any firm with which the
Independent Compliance Consultant is affiliated in performance of his or her duties
under the Order not, without prior written consent of the staff of the Commission,
enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other
professional relationship with Millennium, or any of Millennium’s present or
former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in the capacity as
such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the
engagement.
c.

Independent Distribution Consultant:

i.
Millennium shall retain, within 30 days of the entry of the Order, the
services of an independent distribution consultant (“Independent Distribution
Consultant”) not unacceptable to the staff of the Commission. Englander,
Millennium Management, or Millennium International Management shall pay up to
$5 million of the compensation and expenses of the Independent Distribution
Consultant. Thereafter, the Independent Distribution Consultant’s compensation or
expenses shall be deducted from any amounts of disgorgement or penalty paid by
the Respondents pursuant to this Order and any investment returns or interest
earned thereon. The Respondents shall cooperate fully with the Independent
Distribution Consultant, including providing access to their files, books, records,
and personnel as reasonably requested for the review. Millennium shall require the
Independent Distribution Consultant to develop a Distribution Plan for the
distribution of the total disgorgement and penalty ordered in Paragraph IV.J. of this
Order, and any interest or earnings thereon, according to a methodology developed
in consultation with Millennium and acceptable to the staff of the Commission.
ii.
Millennium shall require the Independent Distribution Consultant to
submit to Millennium and the staff of the Commission the Distribution Plan no
more than 150 days after the entry of the Order.
iii.
The Distribution Plan developed by the Independent Distribution
Consultant shall be binding unless, within 210 days after the date of the entry of the
Order, Millennium or the staff of the Commission, advises, in writing, the
Independent Distribution Consultant of any determination or calculation from the
Distribution Plan that it considers to be inappropriate and states in writing the
reasons for considering such determination or calculation inappropriate.
iv.
With respect to any calculation with which Millennium or the staff
of the Commission do not agree, such parties shall attempt in good faith to reach an
agreement within 240 days of the date of the entry of the Order. In the event that
Millennium and the staff of the Commission are unable to agree on an alternative
14


determination or calculation, the determinations of the Independent Distribution
Consultant shall be binding.
v.
Within 255 days of the date of entry of this Order, Millennium shall
require that the Independent Distribution Consultant submit the Distribution Plan
for the administration and distribution of disgorgement and penalty funds pursuant
to Rule 1101 [17 C.F. R. § 201.1101] of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
Following a Commission order approving a final plan of distribution, as provided in
Rule 1104 [17 C.F.R. § 201.1104] of the Commission’s Rules of Practice,
Millennium shall require that the Independent Distribution Consultant, with
Millennium, take all necessary and appropriate steps to administer the final plan for
distribution of disgorgement and penalty funds.
vi.
Millennium shall require that the Independent Distribution
Consultant, for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years from
completion of the engagement, not enter into any employment, consultant, attorneyclient, auditing or other professional relationship with Millennium, or any of its
present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their
capacity as such. Millennium shall require that any firm with which the
Independent Distribution Consultant is affiliated in performance of his or her duties
under the Order not, without prior written consent of the staff of the Commission,
enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other
professional relationship with Millennium, or any of Millennium’s present or
former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in the capacity as
such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the
engagement.
33.
Pillai shall provide to the Commission, within 30 days after the end of the 12 month
suspension period ordered in Paragraph IV.G., an affidavit that he has complied fully with the
sanctions ordered against him herein.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in the Respondents’ Offers.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the Exchange
Act, Sections 203(e) and 203(f) of the Advisers Act, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act
and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondents Millennium Partners, Millennium Management, Millennium
International Management, Englander, Feeney, Stone, and Pillai shall cease and desist from
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act
and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.

15


B.
Englander be, and hereby is prohibited from serving or acting as an employee,
officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal
underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser,
depositor, or principal underwriter for a period of three years from the date of the entry of this
Order.
C.
Feeney be, and hereby is prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer,
director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter
for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser, depositor, or
principal underwriter for a period of three years from the date of the entry of this Order.
D.
Stone be, and hereby is prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer,
director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter
for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser, depositor, or
principal underwriter for a period of three years from the date of the entry of this Order.
E.
Stone is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as
an attorney for six months from the date of the entry of this Order.
F.
Before appearing and resuming practice before the Commission, Stone will submit
an affidavit to the Commission’s Office of the General Counsel truthfully stating, under penalty of
perjury, that he has complied with the Commission’s orders, that he is not subject to any
suspension or disbarment as an attorney by a court of the United States or of any state, territory,
district, commonwealth, or possession, and that he has not been convicted of a felony or
misdemeanor involving moral turpitude as set forth in Rule 102(e)(2) of the Commission’s Rules
of Practice.
G.
Pillai be, and hereby is suspended from association with any investment adviser for
a period of 12 months from the date of the entry of this Order.
H.
Millennium Partners, Millennium Management, and Millennium International
Management shall comply with their undertakings as enumerated in Paragraph III.32. above.
I.

Pillai shall comply with his undertaking as enumerated in Paragraph III.33. above.
Disgorgement, Penalties and Fair Fund

J.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Respondents shall pay the following
disgorgement and civil money penalties within 30 days of the entry of this Order: (1) Millennium
— $148 million in disgorgement, of which (a) Millennium Partners, L.P and its feeder funds. (i.e.,
their investors, in respect of their capital accounts as of December 31, 2003) shall pay $121.4
million, and (b) Millennium Management and Millennium International Management, jointly and
severally, shall pay $26.6 million (foregoing their incentive allocation based upon the $148 million
in profits disgorged pursuant to this Paragraph); (2) Englander — $1 in disgorgement and a $30
million civil money penalty; (3) Feeney — $1 in disgorgement and a $2 million civil money
penalty; (4) Stone — $1 in disgorgement and a $25,000 civil money penalty; and (5) Pillai — $1 in
16


disgorgement and a $150,000 civil money penalty. Such payments shall be: (A) made by wire
transfer, United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check or bank money
order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) wired, hand-delivered or
mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations
Center, 6432 General Green Way, Alexandria, Stop 0-3, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover
letter that identifies Millennium Partners, Millennium Management, Millennium International
Management, Englander, Feeney, Stone, and Pillai as Respondents in these proceedings and the
file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check shall be
sent to Helene Glotzer, Associate Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 3 World Financial Center, New York, New York 10281-1022.
K.
There shall be, pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, a
Fair Fund established for the funds described in Paragraph IV.J. (“Fair Fund distribution”).
Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil
money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all
purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty,
Englander, Feeney, Stone and Pillai agree that they shall not, after offset or reduction in any
Related Investor Action based on their payment of disgorgement in this action, argue that they are
entitled to, nor shall they further benefit by offset or reduction of any part of their payment of a
civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants
such a Penalty Offset, Englander, Feeney, Stone and Pillai agree that they shall, within 30 days
after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this
action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as
the Commission directs. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall
not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes
of this Paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought against
Englander, Feeney, Stone and Pillai by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially
the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
L.
For good cause shown, the staff of the Commission may alter any of the procedural
deadlines set forth above.
By the Commission.

Jonathan G. Katz
Secretary

17


