UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 8748 / October 11, 2006
SECURITIES ACT OF 1934
Release No. 54586 / October 11, 2006
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 2561 / October 11, 2006
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 27513 / October 11, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11292

In the Matter of
STEVEN B. MARKOVITZ,
Respondent.

ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING DISGORGEMENT AND
CIVIL PENALTIES PURSUANT TO
SECTION 203(f) OF THE INVESTMENT
ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 AND SECTION
9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY
ACT OF 1940

I.
On October 2, 2003, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted
partially settled cease-and-desist and public administrative proceedings pursuant to Section 8A
of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (“Exchange Act”), Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers
Act”), and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment
Company Act”) against Steven B. Markovitz (“Markovitz” or “Respondent”).

II.
Following institution of these proceedings, Markovitz submitted an Offer of Settlement
(the “Offer”) with respect to disgorgement and a civil penalty which the Commission has
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him
and the subject matter of these proceedings, Markovitz consents to the entry of this Order
Making Findings and Imposing Disgorgement and Civil Penalties Pursuant to Section 203(f) of
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940
(the “Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 1 that:
A.
On October 2, 2003, the Commission issued, by consent, an order finding that
Markovitz had willfully violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5, and caused violations of Rule 22c-1 under the Investment
Company Act by engaging in late trading in certain mutual funds and ordered that Markovitz
cease-and-desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of these
provisions.
B.
Markovitz’s willful violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 involved fraud and created a significant risk of
substantial losses to other persons and resulted in substantial pecuniary gain to Markovitz.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it is appropriate and in the public
interest to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED:
A.
That Respondent shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay
disgorgement and prejudgment interest in the total amount of $1 to the United States Treasury.
Such payment shall be: (A) made by United States postal money order, certified check, bank
cashier’s check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on
any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities
and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Alexandria, Stop 0-3,
VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies Steven B. Markovitz as a
Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover
letter and money order or check shall be sent to Bruce Karpati, Assistant Regional Director,
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Northeast Regional Office, 3
World Financial Center, New York, New York 10281.
B.
It is further ordered that Respondent shall, within 30 days of the entry of this
Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $400,000 to the United States Treasury. Such
payment shall be: (A) made by United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s
check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management, Securities and Exchange
Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Stop 0-3, Alexandria, VA 22312;
and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies Steven B. Markovitz as a Respondent in these
proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money order
or check shall be sent to Bruce Karpati, Assistant Regional Director, Division of Enforcement,
Securities and Exchange Commission, Northeast Regional Office, 3 World Financial Center,
New York, New York 10281.
C.
It is further ordered that the disgorgement and penalties referenced in Paragraphs
IV.A and B above shall be paid into the Fair Fund created pursuant to Section 308(a) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 in In the Matter of Millennium Partners, L.P. et al., Administrative
Proceeding File No. 3-12116 (December 1, 2005). Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund
distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order
shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.
To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that he shall not, after
offset or reduction in any Related Investor Action based on Respondent’s payment of
disgorgement in this action, argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he further benefit by offset or
reduction of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty
Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent
agrees that he shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify
the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United
States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission directs. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil
penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action”
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.

By the Commission.

Nancy Morris
Secretary
3

