UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 





SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 8563 / April 6, 2005
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 51480 / April 6, 2005
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11515
ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A
CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER PURSUANT
TO SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT
OF 1933 AND SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C OF
THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934.

In the Matter of 

CHARLES W. CROUSE, JR. 

Respondent. 


I.
In connection with the public administrative proceedings previously instituted pursuant to
Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Sections 15(b) and 21C of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”)1, Respondent Charles W. Crouse
(“Respondent” or “Crouse”) has submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”) which the Commission
has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings, and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission or in which the Commission is a party, and without
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission's jurisdiction over him and
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted. Respondent consents to the entry of
this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order
(“Order”) pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Sections 15(b) and 21C of the
Securities Exchange Act as set forth below.

1

The Order Instituting Proceedings in this matter was issued on June 8, 2004.

II.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds2 that:
Respondent
1.
Crouse, 46, resides in Marietta, Georgia. He has been a registered representative
since May 1992. During the time period of the events discussed herein, Crouse was a registered
representative at a broker-dealer, Fidelity National Capital Investors (the “Broker-Dealer”). He
holds Series 7 and 63 securities licenses. Crouse left the Broker-Dealer in March 2001 and is
currently associated with another broker-dealer.
2.
In December 1997, a customer (“Customer”) opened a brokerage account (“the
Account”) at the Broker-Dealer. His registered representative at the Broker-Dealer was Crouse.
The Ponzi Scheme
3.
From at least June 1998 through September 1999, Customer obtained funds from
investors by representing that he would use their funds to buy and sell securities through an
account at the Broker-Dealer in his name and under his management. During much of this
period, Customer operated a Ponzi scheme in which he deposited approximately $6.3 million of
investor funds into the Account. Customer’s investment strategy primarily consisted of daytrading or short-term trading of options and equities in the Account using a momentum computer
program.
4.
Most of Customer’s investors signed management agreements provided by the
customer allowing him to have “full and complete discretion to invest, trade and make
transactions associated with the Account.” While the terms of the investments varied from
investor to investor, in most cases, the customer promised guaranteed returns of up to fifty
percent (50%) in ninety days or less. In some instances, Customer provided investors with oral
and/or written agreements rolling over the original investment and purported profit. These
rollover agreements often indicated a higher value of their investments than actually existed.
5.
Contrary to his representations to investors, Customer lost money from his trading.
For the thirteen-month period from December 2, 1997 through December 31, 1998, the customer
lost $225,660 in the Account.
6.
Customer’s trading, and his trading losses, increased substantially in 1999. For the
nine-month period from January 1, 1999 through September 30, 1999, net losses in the Account

2

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding

2


amounted to $634,453. With the exceptions of January and March, the Account lost money every
month in 1999.
7.
Customer’s trading program was a Ponzi scheme in that payments to investors
were funded from deposits into the Account that came from new investors. Customer was
dependent on money from new investors to keep his scheme operating.
Crouse’s Assistance In Furtherance of Customer’s Ponzi Scheme
8.
Crouse knew, among other things, of the Account’s high activity level and
substantial losses. He also knew or was reckless in not knowing that almost all the money
deposited into the Account was coming from checks written by other people to Customer
because, as a matter of office procedure, he received copies of all checks deposited into the
customer Account. Crouse also knew that Customer was managing the accounts of other BrokerDealer customers with whom power of attorney documents had been executed, and that he had
lost large amounts of money in some of those accounts as well. Additionally, Crouse received
letters from two of his other customer accounts at the Broker-Dealer in June 1999 telling him to
transfer money into the Account; one letter stated “He [Customer] will manage this money from
his account.” Taken together these facts showed a scheme by Customer to defraud investors,
which Crouse facilitated by recklessly permitting Customer to trade with funds provided by
others.
9.
Crouse substantially assisted Customer in furtherance of his Ponzi scheme by
executing virtually all trades in the Accounts.
10.
From June through September of 1999, Crouse received commissions for his work
with the Customer Account totaling $54,121.
11.
As a result of the conduct described above, Crouse willfully aided and abetted and
caused Customer’s violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the
Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale
of securities and in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
Civil Penalties
12.
Respondent has submitted a sworn Statement of Financial Condition dated August
27, 2004 and revised September 3, 2004, and other evidence and has asserted his inability to pay
a civil penalty.

3


Undertakings
Respondent shall provide to the Commission, within thirty (30) days after the end of the
twelve (12) month suspension period described above, an affidavit that he has complied fully with
the sanctions described in Section III below.
III.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate, in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Crouse’s Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Sections 15(b) and 21C of
the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondent Crouse shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations
and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of securities and
in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
B.
Respondent be, and hereby is, suspended from association with any broker or dealer
for a period of 12 months, effective on the second Monday following the entry of this Order.
C.
Respondent shall pay disgorgement in the amount of $54,121 and prejudgment
interest in the amount of $20,824.71, for a total of $74,945.71. Crouse shall pay the amount of
$17,000, required by the Offer to have been deposited in escrow with his attorney, within seven (7)
days of the entry of this Order. The remaining amount of $57,945.71 shall be paid in 31 equal
monthly installments of $1,869.22 due on the first of each month after the Offer has been accepted
by the Commission. Such payments shall be: (A) made by United States postal money order,
certified check, bank cashier's check, or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and
Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Office of Financial Management,
Securities and Exchange Commission, Operations Center, 6432 General Green Way, Alexandria,
Stop 0-3, VA 22312; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies Crouse as a Respondent in
these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money
order or check shall be sent to Michael J. O’Leary, Senior Trial Counsel, Securities and Exchange
Commission, Atlanta District Office, 3475 Lenox Road, N.E., Suite 1000, Atlanta, GA 30326-1232.
D.

Respondent shall comply with the undertaking enumerated above.

Respondent agrees that if the full amount of any payment described above is not made
within ten (10) days following the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire amount of
disgorgement and prejudgment interest, minus payments made, if any, is due and payable
immediately without further application.
4


E.
Due to the Respondent’s financial condition, as set forth in his Statement of
Financial Condition dated August 27, 2004 and revised September 3, 2004, a civil money penalty
will not be imposed by the Commission.
F.
The Division of Enforcement ("Division") may, at any time following the entry of
this Order, petition the Commission to: (1) reopen this matter to consider whether Respondent
provided accurate and complete financial information at the time such representations were
made; and (2) seek an order directing payment of the maximum civil penalty allowable under the
law. No other issue shall be considered in connection with this petition other than whether the
financial information provided by Respondent was fraudulent, misleading, inaccurate, or
incomplete in any material respect. Respondent may not, by way of defense to any such petition:
(1) contest the findings in this Order; (2) assert that payment of a penalty should not be ordered;
(3) contest the imposition of the maximum penalty allowable under the law; or (4) assert any
defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense.
By the Commission.

Jonathan G. Katz
Secretary

5


