Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-12035
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

September 12, 2005 

------------------------------------------------------:
In the Matter of
:
Order Fixing Time
the Registration Statement of
:
And Place Of Public
:
Hearing And Instituting
Apollo Publication Corporation
:
Proceedings Pursuant
1547 York Street
:
To Section 8(d) Of The
Windsor, Ontario N8X 1W5
:
Securities Act Of 1933
CANADA
:
------------------------------------------------------:
I
The Commission’s public official files disclose that:
On September 8, 2005, Apollo Publication Corporation (“Apollo”) filed a
registration statement with the Commission, through which Apollo plans to issue 25
million shares of common stock at $145 per share, for a total offering of $3.625 billion.
Apollo states in its registration statement that it has offices located at 1547 York Street,
Windsor, Ontario N8X 1W5, Canada. Under the provisions of Section 8(a) of the
Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), the registration statement will become effective
by lapse of time on Wednesday, September 28, 2005, the twentieth day after it was filed.
II
The Division of Enforcement alleges, as set forth in the Statement of Matters of
the Division of Enforcement attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, that
the registration statement makes certain materially false and misleading statements and
omits to state certain material facts as required by Commission forms and regulations
governing the offer and sale of securities to the public.
III
The Commission, having considered the aforesaid information, deems it
appropriate and in the public interest that public proceedings pursuant to Securities Act
Section 8(d) be instituted with respect to the registration statement to determine whether
the allegations of the Division of Enforcement, as set forth in the Statement of Matters of
the Division of Enforcement attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference, are
true; to afford the registrant an opportunity to establish any defenses to these allegations;
and to determine whether a stop order should issue suspending the effectiveness of
Apollo’s registration statement referred to herein. Accordingly,

IT IS ORDERED that public proceedings be and hereby are instituted under
Securities Act Section 8(d), such hearing to be commenced at 10:00 a.m. on September
26, 2005, at the Commission’s offices at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, and
to continue thereafter at such time and place as the hearing officer may determine.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that these proceedings shall be presided over by an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order, who is authorized to
perform all the duties of an Administrative Law Judge as set forth in the Commission’s
Rules of Practice or as otherwise provided by law.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the
allegations contained in this Order within ten (10) days after service of this Order,
pursuant to Rule 220 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after
being duly notified, Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be
determined against Respondent upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which
may be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 221(f) and
201.310. This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent personally.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 210 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the
Commission engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this
or any factually related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the
decision of this matter, except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to
notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of
the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section
553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission action.

By the Commission.

Jonathan G. Katz
Secretary

-2-

