UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9579 / April 28, 2014
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 72034 / April 28, 2014
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 3825 / April 28, 2014
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 31031 / April 28, 2014
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15858

In the Matter of
STANLEY JONATHAN
FORTENBERRY (A/K/A S.J.
FORTENBERRY, JOHN
FORTENBERRY, AND
JOHNNY FORTENBERRY),
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES
ACT OF 1933, SECTION 21C OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
SECTIONS 203(f) AND 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
AND NOTICE OF HEARING

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities
Act”), Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Sections
203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and Section
9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Stanley
Jonathan Fortenberry (a/k/a S.J. Fortenberry, John Fortenberry, and Johnny Fortenberry)
(“Respondent” or “Fortenberry”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:

A.

SUMMARY

1.
Respondent Fortenberry is a recidivist securities laws violator.
Notwithstanding cease-and-desist orders issued by the Pennsylvania Securities
Commission and the Texas State Securities Board, starting in 2010, Fortenberry solicited
investors for his Premier Investment Fund L.P. (“Premier”), which he marketed as a
vehicle to invest in various country music-themed social media and entertainment ventures.
2.
Fortenberry, orally and in the Premier offering materials that he drafted and
distributed, guaranteed to investors returns of at least 12% per annum, and he provided at
least one investor with monthly account statements showing falsely that the fund was
meeting its projections and that its investments were turning a profit.
3.
Based on his representations, the Premier offering materials, and account
statements, Fortenberry raised hundreds of thousands of dollars for Premier, and he
actively worked to raise millions more.
4.
In reality, however, Fortenberry looted the fund. Unbeknownst to his
investors and those he solicited, Fortenberry withdrew approximately half of the money
entrusted to him. Despite the fact that Premier had no profits—indeed, no income
whatsoever—Fortenberry wrote checks to himself for tens of thousands of dollars in
“management fees,” and he also spent the fund’s assets on his living expenses, mortgage,
utilities, credit card bills, personal travel, and purchases at various gas stations and liquor
stores.
5.
To facilitate his fraud and to impede the scrutiny of the investors in the
fund, Fortenberry also kept almost no business records for Premier—despite explicit
representations that the fund would maintain a “capital account” for each investor and that
Fortenberry would “use generally accepted accounting principles . . . [to] keep[ Premier’s]
books and records.”
6.
While Fortenberry did invest a portion of Premier’s assets, Premier’s
investments never turned a profit, and all of Premier’s assets are now, for all intents and
purposes, gone.
B.

RESPONDENT

7.
Stanley Jonathan Fortenberry (also known as “S.J. Fortenberry,” “John
Fortenberry,” and “Johnny Fortenberry”), age 48, is the General Partner of Premier
Investment Fund L.P. (“Premier”), a Tennessee limited partnership and pooled investment
vehicle. As the General Partner of Premier, Fortenberry held exclusive responsibility for
soliciting investments, communicating with investors, and making investment decisions on
behalf of Premier. Fortenberry resides in San Angelo, Texas.
8.
As the General Partner of Premier and as an investment adviser, Fortenberry
owed to Premier fiduciary duties, including the duty to act at all times in the best interest of
the fund.

2

9.
Fortenberry has twice previously been subjected to cease-and-desist orders
in connection with securities fraud. In 2004, both the Pennsylvania Securities Commission
and the Texas State Securities Board ordered Fortenberry to cease and desist from selling
unregistered securities.
10.
Specifically, the Texas regulator found in its order, and Fortenberry
consented, that Fortenberry had “intentionally failed” to disclose the following material
facts:
(A)

Information regarding the assets, liabilities, profits,
losses, cash flow, and operating history of the issuer
sufficient to enable a prospective investor to make an
informed decision regarding the risks associated with
the offering.

(B)

The specific risks associated with [the]
investment . . ., including the risk that a working
interest owner may be liable for costs or claims in
excess of the amount of his or her investment.

(C)

Respondent Fortenberry was convicted of theft in
cause [sic] number 309,091 in the County Court at
Law No. 7, Travis County, Texas on February 2,
1990.

(D)

Respondent Fortenberry filed for Chapter 13
bankruptcy in the United States Bankruptcy Court,
Northern District of Texas, Lubbock Division, on
August 3, 1992, in case number 92-50525, and said
bankruptcy was dismissed on March 21, 1994 by
motion of the Trustee.

(E)

Respondent Fortenberry filed for Chapter 13
bankruptcy in the United States Bankruptcy Court,
Northern District of Texas, Lubbock Division, on
December 16, 1993, in case number 93-50785, and
said bankruptcy was dismissed on September 30,
1994 by motion of the Trustee.

11.
The Texas State Securities Board then issued the following Order against
Fortenberry as a result of his conduct:
1.

It is therefore ORDERED that [Fortenberry] CEASE
AND DESIST from offering for sale any security in
Texas until the security is registered with the
Securities Commissioner or is offered for sale
pursuant to an exemption from registration under the
Texas Securities Act.
3

2.

It is further ORDERED that [Fortenberry]
immediately CEASE AND DESIST from acting as
[a] securities dealer[] or agent[] in Texas until
[Fortenberry is] registered with the Securities
Commissioner or [is] acting pursuant to an exemption
from registration under the Texas Securities Act.

3.

It is further ORDERED that [Fortenberry] CEASE
AND DESIST from engaging in any fraud in
connection with the offer for sale of any security in
Texas.

12.
In participating in the conduct set forth below, Fortenberry engaged in
conduct that is nearly identical to that which formed the basis of the Texas cease-and-desist
order.
13.
In 2010 and 2011, Fortenberry intentionally used the name “John”—a
misspelling of his middle name—when soliciting investors and drafting Premier’s
partnership agreement.
14.
On information and belief, Fortenberry used the name “John” so that
prospective investors would be less likely to connect him to the Texas and Pennsylvania
cease-and-desist orders, which are readily available on the Internet, or to learn of his prior
felony conviction and multiple bankruptcy filings.
C.

OTHER RELEVANT PERSONS AND ENTITIES
1.

Premier Investment Fund L.P.

15.
Premier Investment Fund L.P. (“Premier”) is a Tennessee limited partnership
formed by Fortenberry in 2010. Premier is a pooled investment vehicle. Premier’s principal
place of business is in San Angelo, Texas. Premier is not registered with the Commission.
16.
Fortenberry is the General Partner of Premier. Premier also has two limited
partners by virtue of their investment in Premier.
17.
Currently, Premier has no cash or other assets, except for a small equity
stake in a start-up, entertainment and social media company. The value, if any, of Premier’s
equity stake is unknown.
2.

Victim 1

18.
Victim 1 is a resident of Kings Park, New York. On September 13, 2010
and November 16, 2010, Victim 1 invested a total of $200,000 in Premier, in two lump
sums of $100,000.
19.

By virtue of his investments, Victim 1 is a limited partner of Premier.

4

3.

Victim 2

20.
Victim 2 is a resident of San Angelo, Texas. Between August 3, 2010 and
March 8, 2011, Victim 2 invested $100,000 in Premier, in what were, largely, monthly
installments. During the period of his investment in Premier, Victim 2 suffered from the
effects of a stroke and chronic Lyme disease, which severely impaired his memory,
cognition, and decision-making abilities.
21.

By virtue of his investments, Victim 2 is a limited partner of Premier.

D.

FORTENBERRY MADE MATERIAL FALSE STATEMENTS

22.
The instant fraud began in March 2010 when Fortenberry contacted a
prominent manager of country music talent (the “Manager”) and offered to raise money for
the Manager’s new entertainment and social media company (“Company A”), which was
to fund, among other things, a country music-themed social media website (“Country
Music Website”).
23.
Following this initial contact, Fortenberry created and included in Premier’s
offering materials what he purported was a business plan for Country Music Website.
Fortenberry used this business plan to inform prospective limited partners of one of the
ways that they would make money on investments in Premier. He then began contacting
potential investors, including Victim 1, and encouraged them to invest in Premier,
Fortenberry’s fund which would eventually invest in Country Music Website via
Company A. Fortenberry touted his ability to invest in the entertainment and country
music industries, and he frequently arranged for potential investors to meet the Manager.
24.
The Manager never authorized the Country Music Website business plan’s
inclusion in the Premier offering documents. Fortenberry prepared these documents
without the Manager’s knowledge. Upon learning of the materials, the Manager objected
and instructed Fortenberry to stop using the materials.
25.
The business plan and other offering documents contain numerous
materially false and misleading statements, specifically regarding the risks associated with
the enterprise and its likely return for Premier investors. For example, the business plan
that Fortenberry created and distributed to Premier’s potential investors states as follows:
[Country Music Website] will average thirty dollars per
month per member. We are confident that we will achieve
one million members by August 15, 2012. Consequently,
[Country Music Website] will be grossing thirty million
dollars per month. We expect our cost, at that point, to
remain under two million dollars monthly, leaving a profit of
twenty eight million dollars monthly.
If you invest now, we will pay you twelve percent (12%) per
annum. Repayment of principal and interest will be paid
back in three years, along with you keeping your equity
5

stake in the holdings. Most importantly, our investors will
receive twelve and one half percent of twenty eight million
dollars, which is three and one half million dollars divided
by our one hundred investors. Thus, each investor will be
paid thirty five thousand dollars per month for the rest of his
or her life.
26.
Fortenberry knew or was reckless in not knowing that his written and oral
representations regarding Premier’s actual and projected performance were false and
misleading.
27.
In the limited partnership agreement he created, Fortenberry also
misrepresented to Premier’s investors and prospective investors that the fund did and
would keep accurate and appropriate books and records:
C.

. . . Each partner shall have a capital account that
includes invested capital plus that partner’s
allocations of net income, minus that partner’s
allocation of net loss and share of distributions. . . .

F.

The Company shall use generally accepted
accounting principles, as amended from time to time,
in keeping its books and records, and its fiscal year
shall be a calendar year. The general partner shall
make any tax election necessary for completion of
the partnership tax return.

28.
A full set of financial statements prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) consist of a balance sheet, income statement,
statement of comprehensive income, statement of cash flows, and accompanying footnotes
to the financial statements. GAAP financial statements and footnotes also require certain
treatment, presentation, and disclosure relating to various transactions and account
balances.
29.
In reality, Fortenberry made no attempt to comply with the recordkeeping
requirements of the partnership agreement. He never kept capital accounts, balance sheets,
income statements, statements of comprehensive income, statements of cash flows, or
accompanying footnotes for Premier. Premier also never filed a tax return or prepared the
papers necessary for Premier or its investors to prepare their returns. And, the account
statements Fortenberry sent to one investor were materially false and misleading.
30.
Fortenberry also “lost,” destroyed, and otherwise failed to maintain
documentation relating to Premier and his activities as general partner. His failure to
maintain the financial and business records of Premier was not conducive to accurate,
complete, and reliable financial reporting under GAAP.
31.
Again, Fortenberry knew or was reckless in not knowing that his
representations regarding Premier’s recordkeeping were false and misleading.
6

32.
Fortenberry provided these materially false and misleading Premier offering
materials to Victim 1 and Victim 2.
33.
Fortenberry also made numerous oral misrepresentations to Victim 1. For
example, Fortenberry told Victim 1 that his entire capital investment in Premier would be
used by Premier to invest in Company A, and that Fortenberry’s compensation would be
limited to an equity stake in Premier. Fortenberry led Victim 1 to believe that Premier
would have almost no expenses of its own. Fortenberry never revealed that he intended to
and did divert a substantial portion of Victim 1’s investment for his own benefit.
34.
As a result of Fortenberry’s materially false and misleading statements,
Victim 1 invested a total of $200,000 in Premier through two investments of $100,000
each.
35.

Fortenberry also preyed on those most vulnerable to fraud: the sick and

elderly.
36.
Fortenberry met Victim 2, a retiree, through a 12-step program in which
both participated. Victim 2 suffered from numerous physical and mental ailments,
including the effects of a stroke and chronic Lyme disease, which severely impaired his
memory, cognition, and decision-making abilities.
37.
Fortenberry knew of Victim 2’s ailments, as Victim 2 spoke openly about
them at various meetings of the 12-step program attended by Fortenberry.
38.
Fortenberry convinced Victim 2 to invest in Premier through materially
false and misleading information. For example, Fortenberry told Victim 2 that Victim 2’s
entire investment would be used to invest in the entertainment industry, and Fortenberry
never revealed that he intended to and did divert a substantial portion of Victim 2’s
investment for his own benefit.
39.
On August 3, 2010, Victim 2 provided Fortenberry with a check, written
from Victim 2’s retirement funds, with the understanding that the funds would be invested.
Unbeknownst to Victim 2, however, Fortenberry immediately deposited Victim 2’s check
into Fortenberry’s personal bank account and never transferred the proceeds to Premier.
40.
To entice Victim 2 to invest additional capital on a monthly basis,
Fortenberry sent Victim 2 materially false and misleading monthly account statements, and
provided other false updates concerning Premier’s investments and supposed profitability.
For example, within a month of Victim 2’s initial investment, Fortenberry represented to
Victim 2 that Premier had invested in a movie production company when, in fact, Premier
never made any such investment.
41.
Fortenberry also created and sent to Victim 2 monthly account statements
that gave the appearance that the fund’s investments were generating a profit and that
Victim 2’s investment in Premier was, in turn, profitable. The fund, however, never
generated a profit—it has never received a single dollar of return on its investment.

7

42.
As intended, these false statements about Premier’s investments and profits
induced Victim 2 to continue to make monthly investments in Premier. Over the course of
several months, Victim 2 invested approximately $100,000 in Premier.
43.
Tellingly, Fortenberry did not send these false and misleading monthly
account statements to Victim 1, who purchased a full limited partnership interest at the time
of each of his investments and who requested, but never received, complete financial
statements from Fortenberry.
44.
As with Fortenberry’s prior state securities laws violation, Fortenberry
misrepresented and failed to provide to Premier’s investors (a) “information regarding the
assets, liabilities, profits, losses, cash flow, and operating history of the issuer sufficient to
enable a prospective investor to make an informed decision regarding the risks associated
with the offering,” (b) that Fortenberry had been convicted of theft, and (c) that Fortenberry
had twice filed for bankruptcy. Fortenberry also failed to disclose to Premier’s investors
that he was subject to two cease-and-desist orders resulting from prior state securities laws
violations.
45.
Based on Fortenberry’s written and oral misrepresentations, two investors
invested a total of $300,000 in Premier.
46.
Fortenberry was the sole investment adviser for Premier, and after obtaining
these investment proceeds, enjoyed unfettered control over Premier and its bank account.
When managing Premier and its assets, Fortenberry completely ignored corporate
formalities, routinely commingling Premier’s funds with his own.
E.

FORTENBERRY LOOTED THE FUND

47.
In addition to his misrepresentations regarding the fund’s prospects and
recordkeeping, Fortenberry also falsely told investors and prospective investors in Premier
that his compensation for his work managing Premier’s investments would be solely in the
form of an equity stake in Premier and a concomitant share in Premier’s profits.
48.
Fortenberry repeated this misrepresentation to Premier’s investors and
prospective investors in Premier’s partnership agreement, which purported to give
Fortenberry 100 partnership units out of a possible 199 units and 50% of Premier’s net
income:
A.

The undersigned acknowledges that in consideration
for his pre-formation and formation activities for the
benefit of the Company John Fortenberry received
hereby at the time of the Company’s formation 100
Units of the Company, and was hereby appointed
general partner of the Company. . . .

D.

After tax net income, net loss, and voting power of
the Company shall be allocated as follows:

8

1.

50 percent to the general partner.

2.

50 percent to the limited partners, allocated
according to their percentage of the total
limited partnership capital accounts.

49.
While the partnership agreement authorized Fortenberry to incur, on behalf
of Premier, “reasonable administrative expenses,” which could include “salaries,” nothing
in the partnership agreement permitted Fortenberry to use Premier’s assets for his
unfettered personal use and benefit. And, in any event, Fortenberry never disclosed to his
investors the payment of any “salary” or “reasonable administrative expenses” to him.
50.
Moreover, irrespective of any specific provision of the partnership
agreement, as the General Partner of Premier and as an investment adviser, Fortenberry
owed to Premier fiduciary duties, including the duty to act at all times in the best interest of
the fund.
51.
Notwithstanding these representations and duties, upon receiving
investments from Victims 1 and 2, Fortenberry proceeded to loot the fund. Against his
prior representations, he took over a hundred and forty thousand dollars in “management
fees” and in the form of personal expenses that he charged to the fund.
52.
Despite representing to investors that his compensation would be solely in
the form of an equity stake in Premier and a concomitant share in Premier’s profits,
Fortenberry never disclosed to Premier or its investors that he intended to or, in fact, paid
himself “management fees,” and the partnership agreement makes no mention whatsoever
of such compensation. Nevertheless, between September 2010 and March 2011,
Fortenberry wrote “management fee” checks to himself in the amount of approximately
$68,550—over 22% of the total amount with which he was entrusted. Even assuming,
counterfactually, that such remuneration was authorized by the partnership agreement, the
amount here far exceeded any reasonable or foreseeable management fee.
53.
Fortenberry also never disclosed to Premier’s investors that he intended to
and, in fact, did use the money invested in Premier for his unfettered personal use and
benefit, yet Fortenberry also took approximately $79,950 of Premier and its investors’
money for what appear to be entirely personal expenses and cash withdrawals. These
intentions and acts contradicted his representations that Premier’s assets would be used to
make investments in companies, with a focus on the entertainment industry.
54.
Fortenberry used Premier’s funds to pay for travel and concert tickets for
his family members, personal credit card payments, clothing, jewelry, groceries, cable bills,
utilities, insurance, unknown expenditures via PayPal, a Netflix subscription, car repairs
and maintenance, gasoline, convenience and liquor store purchases, and trips to various
restaurants and coffee shops.
55.
Fortenberry’s failure to maintain accurate books and records in accordance
with GAAP facilitated the concealment of these expenses from investors and regulators.

9

Indeed, on information and belief, that was the intended purpose of Fortenberry’s conduct
in this regard.
56.
In all, Fortenberry took at least $148,500 of investor proceeds in
undisclosed management fees, personal expenses, and cash withdrawals, none of which
was disclosed to Premier’s investors. Indeed, instead of using these assets of Premier for
its investment purposes, he acted for his self-interests and misappropriated the assets for his
own personal benefit.
57.
On information and belief, Fortenberry invested the balance of the Premier
money entrusted to him in Company A for, among other things, its Country Music
Website, so that he could continue to represent that he was associated with the Manager
and the Country Music Website and, as such, continue his fraud.
F.

VIOLATIONS

58.
As a result of the conduct described above, Fortenberry willfully violated
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of securities and in
connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
59.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent also willfully
violated Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibit fraudulent and
deceptive conduct by an investment adviser with respect to any client or prospective client,
and Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, which prohibit
making an untrue statement of a material fact or omitting any material fact to any investor
or prospective investor in a pooled investment vehicle and engaging in any act, practice, or
course of business that is fraudulent or deceptive with respect to any investor or prospective
investor in a pooled investment vehicle.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine:
A.
whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in
connection therewith, to afford Respondent an opportunity to establish any defenses to such
allegations;
B.
what, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondent pursuant to Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Sections 203(i) and 203(j) of the Advisers Act;
C.
what, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondent pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act; and

10

D.
whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the
Exchange Act, and Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act, Respondent should be ordered to
cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any future violations of
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
thereunder, Sections 206(1), 206(2), and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8
thereunder, whether Respondent should be ordered to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Section
8A(g) of the Securities Act, Section 21B(a)(2) of the Exchange Act, and Section 203(i) of
the Advisers Act, and whether Respondent should be ordered to pay disgorgement pursuant
to Section 8A(e) of the Securities Act, Section 21C(e) of the Exchange Act, and Section
203(j) and 203(k)(5) of the Advisers Act.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened at a time and place to be fixed,
and before an Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by
Rule 110 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by
Rule 220 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after
being duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be
determined against him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission’s
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent personally or by certified
mail.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.

11

In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter,
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any
final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Jill M. Peterson
Assistant Secretary

12

