SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9047 / June 30, 2009
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 60190 / June 30, 2009
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 2898 / June 30, 2009
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-13532
IN THE MATTER OF PRIME CAPITAL SERVICES, INC., GILMAN CIOCIA, INC.,
MICHAEL P. RYAN, ROSE M. RUDDEN, CHRISTIE A. ANDERSEN, ERIC J.
BROWN, MATTHEW J. COLLINS, KEVIN J. WALSH AND MARK W. WELLS
The United States Securities and Exchange Commission announced the issuance
of an Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to
Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, and Section 203(f) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(Order) against Prime Capital Services, Inc., a broker-dealer registered with the
Commission and based in Poughkeepsie, NY, its parent company, and several supervisors
and registered representatives.
The Division of Enforcement (Division) alleges in that Order that Prime Capital
Services and its associated registered representatives, Eric J. Brown, Kevin J. Walsh and
Mark W. Wells, offered and sold variable annuities to senior citizens in south Florida by
means of material misrepresentations and omissions. The Division alleges that many of
the variable annuities sold were unsuitable investments for the elderly customers due to
the customers’ ages, liquidity and investment objectives. The Division also alleges that
Prime Capital Services’ parent company, Gilman Ciocia, Inc., aided and abetted the
broker-dealer’s fraud by arranging free-lunch seminars in and around Boca Raton, Delray
Beach, Boynton Beach and Melbourne at which the Prime Capital Services registered
representatives recruited elderly customers whom they later induced to buy variable
annuities.
The Division further alleges that Prime Capital Services and its president, Michael
P. Ryan, failed to implement the firm’s supervisory procedures in a way that reasonably
could be expected to detect and prevent the registered representatives’ violations of the
federal securities laws. Additionally, the Division alleges that Ryan, chief compliance
officer Rose M. Rudden, and supervisors Matthew J. Collins and Christie A. Andersen
failed reasonably to supervise Brown, Walsh and/or Wells with a view toward detecting
and preventing their violations of the federal securities laws.
The Division alleges that Prime Capital Services committed fraud, failed to
supervise, and committed books and records violations pursuant to Section 17(a) of the

Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Sections 10(b), 15(b)(4)(E), 15(c) and 17(a)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-5 and 17a-3
thereunder. The Division alleges that Gilman Ciocia, Inc., a tax preparation firm, aided
and abetted Prime Capital Services’ fraud under Sections 17(a) of the Securities Act and
Sections 10(b) and 15(c) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. The Division
alleges that Michael P. Ryan, Rose M. Rudden, Christie A. Andersen and Matthew J.
Collins failed reasonably to supervise pursuant to Section 15(b)(4)(E) of the Exchange
Act, incorporated by reference in Section 15(b)(6). Finally, the Division alleges that
Collins, Eric J. Brown, Kevin J. Walsh and Mark W. Wells committed fraud pursuant to
Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b5 thereunder, and aided and abetted Prime Capital Services’ books and records violations
under Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-3 thereunder.
A hearing will be scheduled before an administrative law judge to determine
whether the allegations contained in the Order are true, to provide the respondents an
opportunity to respond to these allegations, and to determine what sanctions, if any, are
appropriate and in the public interest. As directed by the Commission, an administrative
law judge shall issue an initial decision in this matter no later than 300 days from the date
of service of the Order Instituting Proceedings.

