SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
[Release Nos. 33-9927; 34-75973; File No. 265-27]
Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies
AGENCY:

Securities and Exchange Commission.

ACTION:

Notice of Federal Advisory Committee Renewal.

SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission is publishing this notice to
announce the renewal of the Securities and Exchange Commission Advisory Committee
on Small and Emerging Companies.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Julie Davis, Senior Special Counsel,
Office of Small Business Policy, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington DC 20549, (202) 551-3460.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with the requirements of the
Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. – App., the Commission is publishing this
notice that the Chair of the Commission, with the concurrence of the other
Commissioners, has approved the renewal of the Securities and Exchange Commission
Advisory Committee on Small and Emerging Companies (the “Committee”). The Chair
of the Commission affirms that the renewal of the Committee is necessary and in the
public interest.
The Committee’s objective is to provide the Commission with advice on its rules,
regulations, and policies, with regard to its mission of protecting investors, maintaining
fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and facilitating capital formation, as they relate to the
following:

(1) capital raising by emerging privately held small businesses (“emerging
companies”) and publicly traded companies with less than $250 million in
public market capitalization (“smaller public companies”) through securities
offerings, including private and limited offerings and initial and other public
offerings;
(2) trading in the securities of emerging companies and smaller public companies;
and
(3) public reporting and corporate governance requirements of emerging
companies and smaller public companies.
Up to 20 voting members will be appointed to the Committee who can effectively
represent those directly affected by, interested in, and/or qualified to provide advice to
the Commission on its rules, regulations, and policies as set forth above. The
Committee’s membership will continue to be balanced fairly in terms of points of view
represented and functions to be performed. Non-voting observers for the Committee
from the North American Securities Administrators Association and the U.S. Small
Business Administration may also be named.
The charter provides that the duties of the Committee are to be solely advisory.
The Commission alone will make any determinations of action to be taken and policy to
be expressed with respect to matters within the Commission’s authority as to which the
Committee provides advice or makes recommendations. The Committee will meet at
such intervals as are necessary to carry out its functions. The charter contemplates that
the full Committee will meet four times annually. Meetings of subgroups or
subcommittees of the full Committee may occur more frequently.

2

The Committee will operate for two years from the date it was renewed or such
earlier date as determined by the Commission unless, before the expiration of that time
period, it is renewed in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act. A copy of
the charter for the Committee has been filed with the Chair of the Commission, the
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the United States Senate, the
Committee on Financial Services of the United States House of Representatives, the
Committee Management Secretariat of the General Services Administration, and the
Library of Congress. It also has been posted on the Commission’s website at
www.sec.gov.
By the Commission.

Dated: September 24, 2015

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

