UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9894 / August 17, 2015
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16757

In the Matter of
CITIGROUP INC.

ORDER UNDER RULE 405 OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, GRANTING A
WAIVER FROM BEING AN INELIGIBLE
ISSUER

Citigroup Inc. (“Company”) has submitted a letter, dated July 23, 2015, constituting an
application for relief from the Company being considered an “ineligible issuer” under Clause (1)(vi)
of the definition of ineligible issuer in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”).
The Company requests relief from being considered an “ineligible issuer” under Rule 405, due to
the entry on August 17, 2015 of an order instituting administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings
against Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (“CGMI”) and Citigroup Alternative Investments LLC
(“CAI”) (the “Cease-and-Desist Order”). The Cease-and-Desist Order requires CAI and CGMI to
cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act. Additionally, the Cease-and-Desist Order requires
CGMI to cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of
Section 206(2) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and CAI to cease and
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 206(4) of the
Advisers Act and Rules 206(4)-7 and 206(4)-8 promulgated thereunder.
Under Clause (1)(vi) of the definition of ineligible issuer in Rule 405 of the Securities Act,
an issuer becomes an ineligible issuer and thus unable to avail itself of well-known seasoned issuer
status, if “Within the past three years (but in the case of a decree or order agreed to in a settlement,
not before December 1, 2005), the issuer or any entity that at the time was a subsidiary of the issuer
was made the subject of any judicial or administrative decree or order arising out of a governmental
action that: (A) Prohibits certain conduct or activities regarding, including future violations of, the
anti-fraud provisions of the federal securities laws….” Under Clause (2) of the definition of
ineligible issuer in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, an issuer shall not be an ineligible issuer if the
Commission determines, upon a showing of good cause, that it is not necessary under the
circumstances that the issuer be considered an ineligible issuer.
Based on the facts and representations in the Company’s July 23, 2015 request, and
assuming CAI and CGMI comply with the terms of the Cease-and-Desist Order, the Commission

has determined that the Company has made a showing of good cause under Clause (2) of the
definition of ineligible issuer in Rule 405 of the Securities Act and that the Company should not be
considered an ineligible issuer by reason of the entry of the Cease-and-Desist Order. Accordingly,
the relief requested in the Waiver Letter regarding Citigroup Inc. being an ineligible issuer under
Rule 405 by reason of the entry of the Cease-and-Desist Order is granted, on the condition that that
CAI and CGMI fully comply with the terms of the Cease-and-Desist Order. Any different facts
from those represented or failure to comply with the terms of the Cease-and-Desist Order would
require us to revisit our determination that good cause has been shown and could constitute grounds
to revoke or further condition the waiver. The Commission reserves the right, in its sole discretion,
to revoke or further condition the waiver under those circumstances.
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED, pursuant to Clause (2) of the definition of ineligible issuer
in Rule 405 of the Securities Act, that a waiver from the Company being an ineligible issuer under
Rule 405 of the Securities Act is hereby granted.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

2

