UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9315 / April 20, 2012
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 66837 / April 20, 2012
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 3399 / April 20, 2012
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 30040 / April 20, 2012
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-14854
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASEAND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTION
21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, SECTION
9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940, AND
SECTIONS 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) OF
THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT
OF 1940, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
GMB Capital Management
LLC (currently known as
“Clearstream Investments
LLC”), GMB Capital
Partners LLC, Gabriel
Bitran and Marco Bitran,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities
Act”), Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Section 9(b)
of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) and Sections 203(e),
203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against GMB
Capital Management LLC, GMB Capital Partners LLC (collectively “GMB”), Gabriel
Bitran and Marco Bitran (collectively with GMB “Respondents”).

II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted
Offers of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or
denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the
subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry
of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to
Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Sections 203(e), 203(f)
and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, Making
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as
set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds 1 that:
A.

SUMMARY

1.
Gabriel Bitran (“Gabriel”) founded GMB Capital Management LLC
(“GMB Management”) in 2005 for the stated purpose of managing hedge funds using
quantitative models he developed, based on his academic optimal pricing research, to trade
primarily Exchange Traded Funds (“ETFs”). Gabriel and Marco Bitran (“Marco” or
collectively “the Individual Respondents”) solicited potential investors with three primary
selling points: (1) very successful performance track records purportedly based on actual
trades using real money from 1998 to the inception of the hedge funds; (2) the firm’s use of
Gabriel’s proprietary optimal pricing model to trade ETFs; and (3) Gabriel’s pedigree and
his involvement as the founder and portfolio manager of the hedge funds. Over a period of
three years, in connection with raising over $500 million for eight hedge funds and various
managed accounts, Respondents made misrepresentations to investors about each of these
points, and at times all three.
2.
First, Respondents told potential investors that the pre-inception
performance track records since 1998 were based on actual trades using real money when
they knew the track record was based on back-tested hypothetical simulations.
3.
Second, Respondents solicited investors to two funds invested almost
entirely in other hedge funds (“funds of hedge funds”) by promising that GMB would use
Gabriel’s optimal pricing models to trade liquid securities such as ETFs. Contrary to their
promises, the funds of hedge funds were invested almost entirely in illiquid investments in
other hedge funds and did not use Gabriel’s optimal pricing models.
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

4.
Third, in May 2008, the Individual Respondents divided GMB’s business.
Going forward, Marco advised the hedge funds under a new entity, GMB Capital Partners
LLC (“GMB Partners”), and Gabriel managed the other clients through GMB
Management. Although Gabriel had no involvement in the GMB Partners’ hedge funds,
GMB Partners and the Individual Respondents continued to tell potential investors that
they were managed by Gabriel.
5.
In connection with an examination of GMB Management by the
Commission’s Boston Regional Office examination staff, GMB Management and the
Individual Respondents provided a document that the Individual Respondents said was a
contemporaneous record of Gabriel’s trades since 1998. They provided this document in
response to the exam staff’s request for books and records that supported GMB
Management’s claims in its marketing material of a successful track record since 1998. In
fact, the document was not true or accurate and was created solely for the purpose of
responding to the staff’s books and records request.
B.

RESPONDENTS

6.
GMB Management was a registered investment adviser based in Boston,
Massachusetts. GMB Management was founded in November 2005 for the purpose of
managing hedge funds and was registered with the Commission from August 2007 to
November 22, 2011. Beginning in May 2008, GMB Management advised the non-hedge
fund accounts. In January 2011, the firm changed its name to Clearstream Investments
LLC.
7.
GMB Partners is an unregistered investment adviser based in Boston,
Massachusetts. GMB Partners was founded in May 2008 for the purpose of managing the
GMB hedge funds previously managed by GMB Management. GMB Partners has closed
each of its hedge funds and is in the process of liquidating certain hedge funds.
8.
Gabriel R. Bitran, age 66, resides in Newton, Massachusetts. Gabriel
founded GMB Management in 2005 and owned it jointly with his son, Marco, from
approximately June 2006 to May 2008. Since May 2008, Gabriel has been the controlling
owner of GMB Management.
9.
Marco Bitran, age 36, resides in Boston, Massachusetts. From
approximately June 2006 to May 2008, Marco jointly owned GMB Management with his
father, Gabriel. Marco founded GMB Partners in May 2008 and is its sole owner.
C.

FACTS

10.
In June 2006, Marco joined his father as a managing member of GMB
Management. Initially, GMB Management managed the Global Alpha hedge funds
(“Global Alpha Funds”). The declared purpose of the Global Alpha Funds was to use
Gabriel’s quantitative optimal pricing models to invest in ETFs and other liquid securities.
3

The Global Alpha Funds included GMB Capital I, LP, GMB Global Opportunities, LP,
GMB Global Alpha, LP and GMB Global Alpha Flex-X, LP. In addition, GMB entered
into a sub-advisory agreement with a registered investment adviser pursuant to which the
adviser hired GMB to use the Global Alpha strategy to manage assets.
Misrepresentations to Investors in the
GMB Global Alpha Funds Regarding Historic Performance
11.
In order to market the Global Alpha Funds, GMB Management and the
Individual Respondents created performance track records showing an average annual
return of over twenty percent without a single calendar year of investment losses since
1998. GMB Management and the Individual Respondents told potential investors and third
party marketers that the Global Alpha pre-inception track records were based on actual
trades using real money. GMB Management’s marketing materials described these preinception returns as “actual performance” in “managed accounts.” (Emphasis in original.)
As GMB Management’s sole owners, the Individual Respondents had ultimate authority
over the content of these documents and distributed the marketing materials to potential
investors and third party marketers.
12.
Contrary to these representations, the Global Alpha pre-inception track
records were not based on actual trades but were back-tested hypothetical simulations.
GMB Management and the Individual Respondents knew that their representations
regarding the pre-inception performance were false. The misrepresentations made by
GMB Management and the Individual Respondents regarding the pre-inception
performance of the Global Alpha Funds were material to the potential investors and third
party marketers.
Misrepresentations to Investors
in GMB Global Multi-Strategy LP
Regarding the Fund’s Strategy and Investments
13.
In addition to the Global Alpha Funds, GMB also managed funds of hedge
funds, including the GMB Global Multi-Strategy, L.P. (the “Multi-Strategy Fund”). The
Multi-Strategy Fund was invested almost entirely in up to 36 other hedge funds, including
several funds of hedge funds. The Respondents did not use Gabriel’s quantitative optimal
pricing models to select the underlying hedge fund investments in the Multi-Strategy Fund.
Yet, Respondents told potential investors and third party marketers that the Multi-Strategy
Fund used Gabriel’s quantitative optimal pricing models to invest in (1) the same ETFs
traded in the Global Alpha Funds, and (2) other asset classes, including commodities,
interest rates, volatility and foreign exchange. While the private placement memorandum
permitted the Multi-Strategy Fund to invest in a wide variety of instruments, including
limited partnerships, the Respondents did not tell investors and third party marketers that
the fund invested almost exclusively in other hedge funds. Instead, Respondents told
investors and third party marketers that the fund invested in liquid securities, primarily
ETFs. At times, the Individual Respondents provided potential investors with very specific
examples of the types of liquid securities the Multi-Strategy Fund purportedly invested in,
4

including “equities” (e.g., long “Brazil”); “futures” (e.g., short “soybeans”); “ForEx” (e.g.,
long “JPY”); “interest rates” (“Long Short Rates/Short Long Rates”) and “Volatility”
(“Long 30 day Vol”).
14.
When Respondents did tell investors that the Multi-Strategy Fund invested
in other hedge funds, they misrepresented both how—and how much—it invested in such
funds. For example, GMB and the Individual Respondents told certain investors that the
Multi-Strategy Fund invested fifty to sixty percent of its assets in GMB Global Alpha, LP
and some less liquid country ETFs (such as Spain and Holland) and the remaining forty
percent in external hedge funds. At the time, contrary to the Individual Respondents’
allocation claims, approximately 1.6% of the Multi-Strategy Fund was invested in GMB
Global Alpha, LP and the remainder was invested in approximately 20 external hedge
funds (several of which were funds of hedge funds). In follow up communications, the
Individual Respondents told these investors that the Multi-Strategy Fund used Gabriel’s
optimal pricing models to allocate to seven hedge funds: two volatility managers, two
interest rate managers, two commodity managers, and one foreign exchange manager. The
Individual Respondents never mentioned investments by the Multi-Strategy Fund in any
other hedge funds. Contrary to the Respondents’ allocation claims, at the time, the MultiStrategy Fund was invested in approximately 29 external hedge funds (many of which were
funds of hedge funds) and had no investments in GMB Global Alpha, LP.
15.
Respondents’ misrepresentations regarding the Multi-Strategy Fund’s
strategy, investments and allocations were material to potential investors. The Respondents
knew that their material misrepresentations were false.
Misrepresentations Regarding
the Multi-Strategy Fund’s Historic Performance
16.
In order to market the Multi-Strategy Fund, GMB Management and the
Individual Respondents created a performance track record from January 1998 to August
2006 showing a 16.2% annualized return without any down years. GMB, the Individual
Respondents and others on their behalf distributed this track record to potential investors in
marketing material and performance reports. During meetings with potential investors, the
Individual Respondents stated that the track record since 1998 was based on actual trading
with real money using Gabriel’s optimal pricing models. In fact, the track record was
based on hypothetical historical allocations to six hedge fund managers. The Individual
Respondents knew that their representations regarding the Multi-Strategy Fund’s preinception performance were false. Respondents’ misrepresentations regarding the MultiStrategy Fund’s pre-inception performance were material to potential investors.
17.
In or about March 2008, HedgeFund.net printed an interview with Marco
regarding Gabriel and the Multi-Strategy Fund. In the interview, Marco falsely stated that
they had achieved “compounded returns in managed accounts of approximately 20% per
year without any down years,” since 1998. Marco also repeated the same
misrepresentations regarding the Multi-Strategy Fund’s use of Gabriel’s optimal pricing
models to trade equities, commodities, interest rates, foreign exchange and volatility. He
5

did not mention that the fund was almost entirely invested in other hedge funds. GMB and
the Individual Respondents distributed the article to investors and potential investors.
The Division Between
GMB Capital Management and GMB Capital Partners
18.
In May 2008, Marco created GMB Partners for the purpose of advising the
GMB hedge funds. GMB Management continued to advise the managed accounts.
Gabriel had no ownership interest in GMB Partners and, from June 2008 forward, had no
involvement in the management of the Multi-Strategy Fund or another fund of hedge funds
managed by GMB partners, GMB Low Volatility Fund, LP (the “Low Volatility Fund”).
Despite this change, GMB Partners and the Individual Respondents continued to tell
investors and potential investors that Gabriel managed the Multi-Strategy and Low
Volatility Funds. Gabriel continued to meet with potential investors in the Multi-Strategy
and Low Volatility Funds and was introduced as a manager of the funds who was involved
in the investment process on a daily basis. The Multi-Strategy and Low Volatility Funds’
marketing materials, Private Placement Memoranda and Due Diligence Questionnaires
distributed to potential investors after May 2008 by GMB Partners, the Individual
Respondents and others on their behalf all falsely stated that Gabriel was the manager
and/or Chief Investment Officer of the funds. GMB Partners and the Individual
Respondents knew that their misrepresentations regarding Gabriel’s involvement in the
Low Volatility and Multi-Strategy Funds were false. These misrepresentations were
material to potential investors.
Misrepresentations to Investors in the Low Volatility
Fund Regarding its Strategy, Investments and Historical Performance
19.
When soliciting investments in the Low Volatility Fund, GMB Partners and
the Individual Respondents made misrepresentations to potential investors regarding the
fund’s strategy, its pre-inception performance and Gabriel’s role with the fund.
20.
For example, during a meeting with an investment adviser, the Individual
Respondents stated that the fund used Gabriel’s optimal pricing models to invest in
equities, interest rates, volatility, currencies and commodities. While the private placement
memorandum permitted the Low Volatility Fund to invest in a wide variety of instruments,
including limited partnerships, the Individual Respondents told the adviser that the fund
invested in ETFs and index funds and gave specific examples of how the fund invested in
emerging markets, interest rates, and currencies. The Individual Respondents did not tell
the adviser that the Low Volatility Fund invested in other hedge funds. At the time, the
Low Volatility Fund was invested almost entirely in 15 external hedge funds, including
several funds of hedge funds.
21.
The Individual Respondents also reviewed with the adviser a monthly preinception track record for the Low Volatility Fund since 1998, showing 11.7% annualized
returns with no down years. Respondents created this track record using hypothetical
allocations to a few external low volatility hedge funds. But the Individual Respondents
6

told the adviser that the track record was based on actual trades with real money using
Gabriel’s optimal pricing models. Specifically, they claimed the track record was based on
trades in the Multi-Strategy Fund and, prior to the inception of the Multi-Strategy Fund,
trades in accounts Gabriel managed.
22.
At the time of the meetings with this adviser, Gabriel had no role in the
management of the Low Volatility Fund or the Multi-Strategy Fund. However, the
Individual Respondents represented that Gabriel spent 80% of his time managing the funds
and was involved in reviewing trades in the funds on a daily basis. GMB Partners and
Individual Respondents knew their representations regarding the Low Volatility Fund were
false. The misrepresentations were material to investors in the fund.
Misrepresentations to Investors
in Dynamic Alpha and Persistent Alpha Regarding Historic Performance
23.
In approximately June 2008, Respondents developed two new versions of
the Global Alpha strategy: the low volatility Persistent Alpha and the higher volatility
Dynamic Alpha strategies. GMB Partners advised the GMB Dynamic Alpha Fund, LP (the
“Dynamic Alpha Fund”), and the GMB Persistent Alpha Fund, LP (the “Persistent Alpha
Fund”). GMB Management advised the managed accounts that used these two strategies.
To market the strategies, the Respondents created performance track records from 1998 to
June 2008 based on back-tested hypothetical simulations. GMB and the Individual
Respondents distributed the monthly track records to potential investors in both the
managed accounts and hedge funds. The Individual Respondents told investors that the
pre-inception performance was based on actual trades using real money.
24.
GMB hired a professional marketer of hedge funds to be the exclusive
marketer (“Exclusive Marketer”) of the two strategies in both the hedge fund and managed
account formats. The Individual Respondents told the Exclusive Marketer that the
Persistent Alpha and Dynamic Alpha pre-inception track records were based on actual
trades using real money. Marco and the Exclusive Marketer distributed to potential
investors the marketing material showing the Dynamic Alpha and Persistent Alpha track
records. When potential investors asked how the track records were created, Marco and the
Exclusive Marketer explained that they were based on actual trades using real money.
25.
The Respondents’ representations regarding the Dynamic Alpha and
Persistent Alpha pre-inception track records were material to investors. The Respondents
knew that these representations were false.
Dissolution of the Low Volatility and Multi-Strategy Funds
26.
At the end of 2008, the Low Volatility and Multi-Strategy Funds
experienced a series of losses, and GMB dissolved the funds.
27.
First, when possible financial fraud at the Petters Group Worldwide
(“Petters Group”) was reported in late September 2008, the Low Volatility and Multi7

Strategy Funds’ investments in a fund that was entirely invested in the Petters Group
became illiquid. GMB did not disclose to investors that it had been impacted by the
reported fraud at the Petters Group. Instead, at the end of October, GMB sent a letter to
investors stating that “a swap instrument that the Fund entered into seeking to realize a
higher return on a portion of its uninvested cash” had become illiquid because “one of the
parties underlying the swap instrument is currently experiencing a credit and liquidity
crisis, in conjunction with other alleged factors.”
28.
Second, between October 9 and 16, 2008, GMB invested a large portion of
the Low Volatility Fund in S&P index options and lost 56% of the fund’s assets on that
trade. On November 10, GMB announced that it would dissolve the Low Volatility Fund
as a result of the trading losses and large number of pending redemptions.
29.
Third, in November and December 2008, a large number of the MultiStrategy Fund’s underlying hedge fund investments suspended withdrawals. As a result,
on December 4, GMB sent a letter to Multi-Strategy investors “suspending withdrawals”
from the fund.
30.
Finally, the Low Volatility and Multi-Strategy Funds suffered significant
losses in hedge funds that had invested with Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC.
By March 2009, the Multi-Strategy Fund had over 50% of its total capital pending
redemption. In June 2009, GMB Partners notified investors that it would dissolve the
Multi-Strategy Fund. GMB Partners continues to liquidate the underlying hedge fund
investments in the Multi-Strategy Fund and return capital to its investors.
Investment in a Basket of Hedge Funds
Leads to Significant Losses in the Global Alpha Flex-X Fund
31.
Beginning in 2006, the Respondents designed and marketed Global Alpha
Flex-X L.P. (the “Flex-X Fund”) to be a leveraged version of GMB Global Alpha, LP,
using Gabriel’s optimal pricing model to trade ETFs and other liquid securities.
Respondents included this description in marketing material, performance reports and
Private Placement Memoranda.
32.
GMB Management and the Individual Respondents followed this
investment mandate through 2007. Starting in February 2008, GMB Management started
investing a substantial portion of the Flex-X Fund in another GMB hedge fund, GMB
Global Enhanced L.P. (the “Enhanced Fund”). Like the Multi-Strategy Fund, the
Enhanced Fund was invested in a basket of other hedge funds and did not use Gabriel’s
optimal pricing models to make investment decisions. By April 2008, GMB Management
had invested approximately 50% of the Flex-X Fund’s assets into the Enhanced Fund.
33.
In July 2008, GMB Partners distributed to all the Flex-X investors a new
Private Placement Memorandum that described the Flex-X Fund as a leveraged version of
GMB Global Alpha, LP, using Gabriel’s optimal pricing models.

8

34.
In March through October 2008, GMB distributed monthly Performance
Reports to all Flex-X investors which falsely described the fund as a leveraged version of
GMB Global Alpha, LP, trading primarily ETFs. The Individual Respondents had ultimate
authority over the content of these documents.
35.
By July 2008, GMB had invested over 50% of the Flex-X Fund’s assets in
the Enhanced Fund and the remainder in GMB Dynamic Alpha Fund, LP (the new version
of GMB Global Alpha, LP). The Respondents never disclosed this material change in
strategy to investors. The Respondents’ representations regarding the Flex-X Fund’s
strategy were material. The Respondents knew these representations were false.
36.
During September through November 2008, the Enhanced Fund’s basket of
hedge funds lost significant value in this period, and as a result, the Flex-X Fund
experienced substantial losses.
False Records Provided to the Exam Staff
37.
During an unannounced examination of GMB Management by the
Commission’s examination staff, the staff requested support for GMB’s various purported
pre-inception track records since 1998. In response, GMB Management provided what it
described as “trading logs for the Global Alpha and Multi-Strategy trading strategies,”
purporting to show ETF trades and positions from 1998 to 2005. Respondents stated that
the trading logs were not “back-tested,” but were “in fact a record reflecting the trading
performance of the GMB trading strategies in personal accounts over time. Gabriel in fact
traded these strategies going back well before 1998. The trades were recorded in realtime.” These statements were false.
38.
During the examination, the staff also requested all GMB Management
client correspondence, including emails, sent during a specific time period. In response,
GMB Management told the staff that Gabriel did not have any such emails for that time
period. When the staff pressed GMB on this issue, GMB Management provided an email
from Gabriel’s GMB Management email address stating, “during the examination period I
(Gabriel Bitran) did not use email as his primary method of communication. I do not recall
sending any emails and no such emails were found during this period.” In response to the
enforcement staff’s subpoenas, however, GMB Management produced emails sent from
and to Gabriel during that specific time period that are relevant to GMB Management client
correspondence.
D.

VIOLATIONS

39.
As a result of the conduct described above, the Respondents willfully
violated Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct in the
offer or sale of securities.

9

40.
As a result of the conduct described above, the Respondents willfully
violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit
fraudulent conduct in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
41.
As a result of the conduct described above, GMB Management, Gabriel
Bitran and Marco Bitran willfully violated Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act
by employing devices, schemes or artifices to defraud clients, and engaging in transactions,
practices or courses of business that defrauded clients, including managed accounts.
42.
As a result of the conduct described above, GMB Management, GMB
Partners, Gabriel Bitran and Marco Bitran willfully violated Section 206(4) of the Advisers
Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct by advisers to
“pooled investment vehicles” and specifically prohibit misleading statements to investors
or prospective investors in those pools.
43.
As a result of the conduct described above, Gabriel Bitran willfully aided
and abetted and caused GMB Management’s and/or GMB Partners’ violations of Section
17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder,
and Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder.
44.
As a result of the conduct described above, Marco Bitran willfully aided and
abetted and caused GMB Management’s and/or GMB Partners’ violations of Section 17(a)
of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and
Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder.
45.
As a result of the conduct described above, GMB Management willfully
violated Section 204(a) of the Advisers Act which provides that registered investment
advisers “shall make and keep for prescribed periods such records . . . as the Commission,
by rule, may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection
of investors. All records . . . of such investment advisers are subject at any time” to
examination by SEC staff.
46.
As a result of the conduct described above, GMB Management willfully
violated Rule 204-2(a)(16) of the Advisers Act, which requires every investment adviser
registered with the Commission to make and keep true, accurate and current records
sufficient to form the basis of the performance shown in marketing material distributed to
ten or more persons.
47.
As a result of the conduct described above, Gabriel Bitran and Marco Bitran
willfully aided and abetted and caused GMB Management’s violations of Section 204(a) of
the Advisers Act and Rule 204-2(a)(16) thereunder.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public
interest to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers.
10

Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 21C of the
Exchange Act, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act and Sections 203(e), 203(f)
and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondents Gabriel Bitran, Marco Bitran, and GMB Management cease
and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section
17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder,
and Sections 204, 206(1), 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-2(a)(16)
and 206(4)-8 thereunder.
B.
Respondent GMB Partners cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and
Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder.
C.
Beginning 60 days from entry of this Order, Respondent Marco Bitran be,
and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser,
municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or
nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director,
member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or
principal underwriter for, a registered investment company or
affiliated person of such investment adviser, depositor, or principal
underwriter.
D.

Respondent Gabriel Bitran be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser,
municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or
nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director,
member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or
principal underwriter for, a registered investment company or
affiliated person of such investment adviser, depositor, or principal
underwriter.

E.

Respondent GMB Management is censured.

F.
Respondent GMB Partners is censured and prohibited from receiving any
management or other fees during the 60 days after the entry of this Order.

11

G.
Any reapplication for association by Marco Bitran and Gabriel Bitran will
be subject to the applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry
may be conditioned upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction
of any or all of the following: (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondents,
whether or not the Commission has fully or partially waived payment of such
disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served as the basis for
the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a customer,
whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; and
(d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the
conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order.
H.
Respondents shall be jointly and severally liable for disgorgement of
$4,300,000. This sum shall be paid to the Securities and Exchange Commission in the
following installments: $3,500,000 on or before July 31, 2012 and $800,000 on or before
October 31, 2012. If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this
Order, the entire outstanding balance of disgorgement plus any additional interest accrued
pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 shall be due and payable immediately, without
further application. Payment shall be: (A) made by wire transfer, United States postal
money order, certified check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable
to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Securities
and Exchange Commission, Office of Financial Management, 100 F St., NE, Stop 6042,
Washington, DC 20549; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies Marco Bitran,
Gabriel Bitran, GMB Management and GMB Partners as Respondents in these
proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which cover letter and money
order or check shall be sent to John T. Dugan, Associate Regional Director, Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Boston Regional Office, 33 Arch
Street, 23rd Floor, Boston, Massachusetts 02110.
I.
Respondent Marco Bitran shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of
$250,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This sum shall be paid to the
Securities and Exchange Commission in the following installments: $150,000 within ten
days of entry of this Order and the remainder on or before October 31, 2012. If any
payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire
outstanding balance of civil penalties plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31
U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further application. Such
payment shall be: (A) made by wire transfer, United States postal money order, certified
check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and
Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Office of Financial Management, 100 F St., NE, Stop 6042, Washington,
DC 20549; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies Marco Bitran as a
Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which
cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to John T. Dugan, Associate Regional
Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Boston Regional
Office, 33 Arch Street, 23rd Floor, Boston, Massachusetts 02110.

12

J.
Respondent Gabriel Bitran shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of
$250,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. This sum shall be paid to the
Securities and Exchange Commission in the following installments: $150,000 within ten
days of entry of this Order and the remainder on or before October 31, 2012. If any
payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire
outstanding balance of civil penalties plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to 31
U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without further application. Such
payment shall be: (A) made by wire transfer, United States postal money order, certified
check, bank cashier's check or bank money order; (B) made payable to the Securities and
Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Office of Financial Management, 100 F St., NE, Stop 6042, Washington,
DC 20549; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies Gabriel Bitran as a
Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy of which
cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to John T. Dugan, Associate Regional
Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Boston Regional
Office, 33 Arch Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02110.
K.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended,
a Fair Fund is created for the disgorgement and penalties referenced in paragraphs H
through J above. Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts
ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as
penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve
the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or
reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of
Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in
any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they
shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the
Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United
States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission directs. Such a payment shall not be
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the
civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related

13

Investor Action" means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on
behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the
Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.

By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

14

