UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9576 / April 22, 2014
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15847

In the Matter of
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND ISSUING
STOP ORDER

THE REGISTRATION
STATEMENT OF MOBILE
VAULT, INC.

I.
A.
On July 3, 2013, Mobile Vault, Inc. (“Respondent”) filed a Form S-1 registration
statement seeking to register the offer and sale of 3,000,000 common shares in a $30,000 public
offering, and amended its statement on August 26, 2013, September 18, 2013, and October 21,
2013. The registration statement has not become effective.
B.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) deems it
appropriate and in the public interest that administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted
to determine whether a stop order should issue suspending the effectiveness of Respondent’s
registration statement.
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative Proceedings, Making Findings, and Issuing Stop Order (the “Order”), as set forth
below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1. Respondent is a Florida corporation headquartered in Cameron Park, California.
2. On July 3, 2013, Respondent filed a Form S-1 registration statement seeking to
register the offer and sale of 3,000,000 common shares in a $30,000 public offering,
and amended its statement on August 26, 2013, September 18, 2013, and October
21, 2013 (together, the “Registration Statement”).
3. The Registration Statement includes untrue statements of material facts and omits
to state material facts necessary to make the statements contained therein not
misleading, for example:
a. The Registration Statement states that “[o]ur sole officer and director will be
responsible for the business plan” to develop and sell mobile privacy and
security products. The Registration Statement also states that Respondent “is
entirely dependent on the efforts of its sole officer and director.” The
Registration Statement further states that Respondent is “currently operating
out of our sole director and officer’s office located at 3384 La Canada Drive,
Suite 1, Cameron Park, CA 95682.” These disclosures are untrue and
misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and director has not engaged in
business activities for Respondent as represented in the Registration
Statement.
b. The Registration Statement states that the “Board of Directors is comprised [ ]
solely of [Respondent’s sole officer and director] who was integral to our
business and who is involved in our day to day operations.” The Registration
Statement also states that Respondent’s sole officer and director “currently
devotes approximately 20-30 hours per week to our operations” and “is
prepared to devote more time to our operations.” The Registration Statement
further states that “[t]he functions of [an Audit Committee, a Compensation
Committee or a Nominating Committee] are being undertaken by our sole
director.” These disclosures are untrue and misleading because Respondent’s
sole officer and director has not engaged in business activities for Respondent
as represented in the Registration Statement.
c. The Registration Statement contains a description of the background of
Respondent’s sole officer and director and states that her “industry and
technical expertise are critical to the success of the business.” In the
biography section, the Registration Statement states, in part, that Respondent’s
sole officer and director has six years of “marketing and software design and
programming experience,” currently works at a software company, previously

was a purchasing manager for a medical company, and earned a bachelor of
science in computer science from a South Florida university. These
disclosures are untrue and misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and
director does not have any such expertise, experience, or education.
d. The Registration Statement states that Respondent’s sole officer and director
“meets the conditions of paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of Rule 3a4-1 of the Exchange
Act, in that she (A) primarily performs, or is intended primarily to perform at
the end of the offering, substantial duties for or on behalf of our company,
other than in connection with transactions in securities . . . .” These
disclosures are untrue and misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and
director has not performed and does not intend to perform the duties as
represented in the Registration Statement for or on behalf of Respondent.
e. The Registration Statement states that “[t]he shares will be sold on our behalf
by our officer” and that “[i]t is our belief [Respondent’s sole officer and
director] had such knowledge and experience in financial and business matters
that she was capable of evaluating the merits and risks of the investment and
therefore did not need the protections offered their [sic] shares under
Securities and Act of 1933 [sic], as amended. [Respondent’s sole officer and
director] certified that she was purchasing the shares for their [sic] own
accounts, with investment intent.” These disclosures are untrue and
misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and director does not have the
level of knowledge and expertise as represented in the Registration Statement,
and made no such certification.
f. The Registration Statement states that “[p]ursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Act, the registrant has duly caused this registration statement to be
signed on its behalf by [Respondent’s sole officer and director].” The
Registration Statement further states that “[t]he undersigned . . . certifies that .
. . the above is a true and correct copy of The Resolution that was duly
adopted at a meeting of the Board of Directors, which was held on this date
August 23, 2013.” These disclosures are untrue and misleading because
Respondent’s sole officer and director did not sign the Registration Statement
or Resolution on behalf of Respondent, and because Respondent’s sole officer
and director did not attend any meeting of the Board of Directors.
g. The Registration Statement claims that there was a capital contribution by
Respondent’s sole officer and director on May 18, 2011. This disclosure is
untrue and misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and director made no
capital contribution.
h. The Registration Statement states that Respondent has “no plans to change our
business activities or to combine with another business and are not aware of

any events or circumstances that might cause us to change our plans.” This
disclosure is untrue and misleading because Respondent is a development
stage company with no specific business plan or purpose other than to engage
in a merger or acquisition with an unidentified entity and, therefore, is an
undisclosed “blank check company” as defined in Rule 419 under the
Securities Act of 1933 (the “Securities Act”).
i. The Registration Statement states that Respondent’s sole officer and director
“is the only ‘parent’ and ‘promoter’ of the company” and will “continue to
control the operations of the Company” after the offering. This disclosure is
untrue and misleading because Respondent is controlled and promoted by
undisclosed control persons and promoters.
4. On January 14, 2014, Respondent filed a letter seeking to withdraw its Registration
Statement. On January 23, 2014, the Commission denied the withdrawal of the
Registration Statement. See In the Matter of Mobile Vault, Inc., Securities Act
Release No. 9517 (Jan. 23, 2014).
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
issue a stop order suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement, as agreed to in
Respondent’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act, that
the effectiveness of the Registration Statement filed by Respondent be, and hereby is, suspended.
This Order shall be served on Respondent by certified mail forthwith.
By the Commission.

Jill M. Peterson
Assistant Secretary

