UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9349 / August 14, 2012
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 67649 / August 14, 2012
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 30167 / August 14, 2012
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-14982
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO
SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES ACT
OF 1933, SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASEAND-DESIST ORDER

In the Matter of
Wells Fargo Brokerage Services,
LLC n/k/a Wells Fargo Securities,
LLC and Shawn Patrick
McMurtry
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in
the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby
are, instituted, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act (“Exchange Act”), against Wells Fargo Brokerage
Services, LLC n/k/a Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (“Wells Fargo”), and that public administrative
and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted, pursuant to Section 8A of the
Securities Act, Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company
Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Shawn McMurtry (“McMurtry”) (Wells Fargo
and McMurtry collectively “Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act
of 1933, Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Section 9(b) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a
Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of the Order and the Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds 1 that:
Summary
1.
From at least January 1, 2007 through August 14, 2007 (“relevant time
period”), Wells Fargo and certain of its registered representatives made recommendations to
certain institutional customers to purchase asset-backed commercial paper issued by limited
purpose companies called Structured Investment Vehicles (“SIVs”), which were complex
investment vehicles backed largely by high-risk mortgage-backed securities (“MBS”) and
collateral debt obligations (“CDOs”). Wells Fargo registered representatives in Wells Fargo’s
Institutional Brokerage and Sales Division, including McMurtry, recommended and sold these
asset-backed commercial paper investments to certain institutional customers, including
municipalities and non-profit institutions.
2.
During the relevant time period, Wells Fargo and certain of its registered
representatives recommended and sold complex forms of SIV-issued asset-backed
commercial paper to institutional customers without obtaining sufficient information and
understanding about the nature and risk of these products. Among other things, Wells Fargo
and its registered representatives did not review the commercial paper private placement
memoranda ("PPMs") for the investments and the extensive risk disclosures in those
documents. Instead, Wells Fargo and its registered representatives relied almost exclusively
on the credit ratings of these products, despite warnings against such over-reliance on ratings.
Wells Fargo also failed to establish any procedures to ensure that its personnel adequately
reviewed and understood the nature and risks of these commercial paper programs. As a
result, Wells Fargo and its registered representatives failed to: (i) have a reasonable basis for
their recommendations; and (ii) in connection with their recommendations, disclose to their
institutional customers the risks associated with the complex SIV-issued asset-backed
commercial paper investments, including the nature and volatility of the underlying assets. A
number of institutional customers purchased SIV-issued asset-backed commercial paper as a
result of Wells Fargo’s recommendations. In particular, McMurtry exercised discretionary
authority in violation of Wells Fargo’s internal policy and selected the particular issuer of
asset-backed commercial paper for one long-standing municipal customer. Although Wells
Fargo received a small amount of commissions from these transactions, Wells Fargo’s
1

The findings herein are made pursuant to the Respondents' Offers and are not binding on any other person or entity
in this or any other proceeding.

2

misconduct nevertheless resulted in, or created a significant risk of, substantial losses by these
customers in 2007 when three SIV-issued asset-backed commercial paper programs, which
were backed largely by MBS and CDOs, defaulted.
3.
Wells Fargo and McMurtry were, at a minimum, negligent in recommending
the relevant asset-backed commercial paper programs without obtaining adequate information
about them to form a reasonable basis for recommending these products and without
disclosing the material risks of these products. As a result, Wells Fargo and McMurtry
violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act.
Respondents
4.
Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC was a registered broker-dealer
subsidiary of Wells Fargo & Co. with its principal place of business in Minneapolis,
Minnesota. On December 31, 2008, Wells Fargo & Co., the parent of Wells Fargo Brokerage
Services, LLC, acquired the former Wachovia Corporation (“Wachovia”). In 2009, Wells
Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC was combined with Wachovia’s former institutional brokerdealer business, Wachovia Capital Markets LLC, which now operates as Wells Fargo
Securities, LLC. Wells Fargo Brokerage Services, LLC de-registered as a broker-dealer with
the Commission in November 2009.
5.
Shawn Patrick McMurtry, age 42, a resident of White Bear Lake, Minnesota,
was employed by Wells Fargo or a predecessor from the time he graduated from college in
June 1992 until he voluntarily terminated his employment in June 2012. Respondent
McMurtry obtained his Series 7 and Series 63 licenses in July 1996 and became a registered
representative in 2001. During the relevant time period, McMurtry was a Vice President in
Wells Fargo’s Institutional Brokerage and Sales Division, and recommended and sold
primarily fixed income securities to corporations, insurance companies, non-profit
institutions, public entities and money managers.
Wells Fargo Targeted Municipalities and Non-Profit Customers
6.
Before and during 2007, the Institutional Brokerage and Sales Division of
Wells Fargo had targeted municipalities and non-profit institutions as part of its institutional
customer base (“municipal customers”).
7.
Wells Fargo and its registered representatives routinely requested municipal
customers’ investment policies to facilitate their recommendations. The first priority in the
investment policies of many municipal customers was preservation of principal. Registered
representatives frequently certified to these municipal customers on at least an annual basis
that they understood the municipal customers’ investment policies. In addition, many
municipal customers had long-term relationships with Wells Fargo and individual registered
representatives.
8.
Wells Fargo and its registered representatives knew, both from their customers’
investment policies and from discussions with customers, that many of their municipal

3

customers were interested in investing in conservative commercial paper. 2 Many of these
customers needed to invest cash in instruments that allowed them timely access to the funds
while obtaining an investment return.
9.
Based on, among other things, the nature and longevity of their business
relationships, many municipal customers placed a high level of trust in and reliance on their
registered representatives. Customers that were permitted to purchase commercial paper
generally would inform their registered representatives of the amount of money they had
available for investment and the length of time they wished to invest it. Wells Fargo registered
representatives typically would then respond with recommendations that included commercial
paper. The commercial paper recommendations, which were based almost solely on the
ratings assigned by the credit rating agencies, usually consisted of approximately three
commercial paper investment choices that met the customers' criteria. Customers would then
select one of the commercial paper investments recommended by the Wells Fargo registered
representatives. Multiple registered representatives at Wells Fargo, including McMurtry,
however, had a practice of exercising discretionary authority to make purchases of assetbacked commercial paper on behalf of certain customers. In these situations, the customer still
informed the registered representative of the amount of money available for investment and
the length of time for the investment, but permitted the registered representative to then select
the particular commercial paper investment and execute the purchase of that investment for
the customer.
Wells Fargo Recommended Complex SIV-Issued Asset-Backed Commercial Paper to Its
Municipal Customers Without Reviewing the Private Placement Memoranda and Risk
Disclosures of the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper
10.
Wells Fargo and its registered representatives had historically sold highly-rated
traditional direct corporate commercial paper to municipal customers. In addition to traditional
commercial paper, many customers also purchased asset-backed commercial paper through
Wells Fargo. Similar to direct commercial paper, asset-backed commercial paper was rated by
various credit rating agencies.
11.
The asset-backed commercial paper Wells Fargo sold to its municipal customers
was not registered and thus the PPMs for those investments were not normally available to the
general public. Customers accordingly could only obtain access to the information in the PPMs,
or copies of the PPMs, from a professional in the securities industry. Wells Fargo generally did
not provide the PPMs to customers in connection with commercial paper transactions.
12.
It was not Wells Fargo's practice to conduct any review of the asset-backed
commercial paper it recommended to customers and did not have procedures that required such a
review. In addition, no department or individual inside of Wells Fargo was required to conduct
any review of the offering documents or similar disclosure documents. In addition, no
department or individual inside of Wells Fargo was required to assess any unique risks to the
commercial paper type, the particular issuer or its structure. Instead, Wells Fargo and its
2

Commercial paper generally consists of short-term, unsecured promissory notes with fixed maturities, issued by
corporations or other entities.

4

registered representatives relied largely on the credit ratings as the basis for their
recommendations.
13.
By 2007, in addition to the traditional direct corporate commercial paper, and the
more established forms and issuers of asset-backed commercial paper that Wells Fargo had
offered to its customers, other more unusual asset-backed commercial paper issued by complex
investment vehicles was being created and sold in the marketplace. These newer commercial
paper investments included asset-backed commercial paper programs that were collateralized by
subprime mortgages. Some of this asset-backed commercial paper was issued by SIVs, littleknown limited purpose companies that generally undertook arbitrage activities by buying
primarily highly rated medium and long-term fixed-income assets, which they then funded
through the sale of less expensive commercial paper and/or notes.
14.
Some of the asset-backed commercial paper was issued by so-called "SIV-Lites,"
which also engaged in similar arbitrage activity but generally did not have the asset
diversification of a SIV. In addition, SIV-Lites often were highly leveraged and the highest
proportion of their assets consisted of residential mortgage-backed securities, many of which
were derived from sub-prime mortgages. The SIV/SIV-Lite marketplace was at its height in
2007.
15.
SIVs and SIV-Lites invested extensively in securities backed by subprime
mortgages or related derivatives such as CDOs. The primary collateral of the asset-backed
commercial paper issued by these entities thus was MBS and derivatives purchased by these
special entities, which had little or no other assets. As a result, these asset-backed commercial
paper programs were particularly exposed to risks associated with MBS and derivatives thereof.
16.
Wells Fargo recommended and sold asset-backed commercial paper in its role as
a broker for its institutional customers. Wells Fargo did not underwrite or participate in the
issuance of, or act as a program dealer for, the SIV/SIV-Lite-issued asset-backed commercial
paper, nor did Wells Fargo have any role in structuring the SIVs or SIV-Lites or in selecting their
investments.
17. As SIVs and SIV-Lites became increasingly present in the marketplace, Wells
Fargo did not change its practices as to the review or disclosure of risks of commercial paper.
Thus, in 2007, no one at Wells Fargo was responsible for reviewing, and generally no one
reviewed, the PPMs of asset-backed commercial paper programs to assess any specialized risks
to the particular security or its structure. Accordingly, the registered representatives had little
information about these securities beyond their ratings, yields and maturity dates. In fact,
multiple registered representatives at Wells Fargo had never heard of a SIV at the time they were
selling the SIV-issued asset-backed commercial paper to their customers. As a result of their
failure to understand these products, the registered representatives made no distinctions among
traditional direct corporate commercial paper, asset-backed commercial paper and unusually
structured SIV-issued asset-backed commercial paper. Despite their lack of knowledge regarding
these complex products, in 2007, Wells Fargo and certain of its registered representatives
recommended asset-backed commercial paper that was backed by MBS and issued by SIV/SIVLites. They made recommendations based almost solely on the ratings that the credit rating
agencies assigned to the commercial paper.
5

Wells Fargo’s Misconduct Resulted in or Created a Significant Risk of
Substantial Losses to Customers
18.
A number of the municipal customers had indicated in Wells Fargo account
opening documents that they did not want to invest in MBS. Other municipal customers were
prohibited by state law from holding certain MBS and these restrictions were set forth in the
customers’ investment policies or other documents in Wells Fargo’s possession. However,
because no one at Wells Fargo read the relevant disclosure documents for the asset-backed
commercial paper in question, Wells Fargo offered customers asset-backed commercial paper
programs that were materially exposed to the MBS market.
19.
In 2007, Wells Fargo sold, among others, three SIV-Lite programs that had
received the highest ratings from each of the three major credit rating agencies: Rhinebridge PLC
(“Rhinebridge”), Mainsail II Ltd. (“Mainsail”) and Golden Key Ltd. (“Golden Key”). 3 The
PPMs for all three products stated that the issuers were limited liability companies specifically
formed to invest in MBS and other complex securities, such as CDOs, and that they were issuing
asset-backed commercial paper to obtain short-term financing for these securities and
derivatives.
20.
The market for asset-backed commercial paper contracted severely beginning in
mid-August 2007 due in part to the increased market perception of the risk of subprime
mortgages, which formed much of the collateral for a number of SIV-issued asset-backed
commercial paper programs. As a result, credit rating agencies downgraded a number of SIVissued asset-backed commercial paper programs and, ultimately, many defaulted.
21.
In August 2007, Mainsail and Golden Key defaulted. Rhinebridge, after having
been on the market for only four months, defaulted in October 2007.
22.
Approximately ten Wells Fargo customers were holding a total of approximately
$104.4 million in commercial paper issued by Mainsail, Golden Key and Rhinebridge when the
defaults occurred. These three defaults resulted in, or created a significant risk of, substantial
losses for these ten customers. Wells Fargo’s total commission in 2007 for the sale of Mainsail,
Golden Key and Rhinebridge was approximately $65,000.
23.
The PPMs for these asset-backed commercial paper programs provided clear
disclosure about the risks associated with the products. In fact, the PPMs for these three SIVs
each contained approximately 20-30 pages of risk disclosures. These risks included Risks
Relating to Nonprime and other Mortgage Backed Securities, Risks Related to Investments
Backed by Residential Mortgages, Risks Related to Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities,
Risks Related to CDOs and Synthetic Securities, Considerations Related to Asset Backed
Securities, Spread Risk, International Risk, Credit Risk and others. In addition, many of the
PPMs had language specifically identifying a market decline in the residential mortgage market.

3

For example, Rhinebridge, Golden Key and Mainsail II each had been rated A1+ (a Standard & Poor's rating) or
P1 (a Moody's rating), the highest possible ratings awarded by those credit rating agencies, at the time the Wells
Fargo customers bought them.

6

24.
In each case, the very scenario that took place in the market in 2007 had been
described with precision in the risk disclosures in the PPMs. For example, Mainsail’s July 2007
PPM specifically stated that “According to recently published reports, the residential mortgage
market in the US has experienced a variety of difficulties and changed economic conditions that
may adversely affect the performance and market value of US Residential ABS Securities…
Delinquencies, defaults and losses with respect to residential mortgage loans generally reportedly
have increased in recent months, and may continue to increase, particularly in the subprime
sector. In addition, in recent months published reports have indicated that housing prices and
appraisal values may result in additional increases in delinquencies and losses on US Residential
Asset Backed Securities.”
25.
Because the Wells Fargo registered representatives had not reviewed the PPMs, or
otherwise investigated the programs before recommending asset-backed commercial paper to
their customers, they were unaware of the risks. They accordingly did not disclose these risks to
customers or factor them into their recommendations.
26.
As a result of this lack of adequate knowledge of the products they were selling,
Wells Fargo and certain of its registered representatives recommended and sold SIV-issued
asset-backed commercial paper to customers without adequate basis and without disclosure to
customers of the relevant risks. They also did not disclose to these customers their lack of
investigation regarding the programs.
27.
Wells Fargo and its registered representatives’ failures to have a reasonable basis
for their recommendations and to disclose the risks associated with the products they
recommended and sold were particularly significant failures, in light of the fact that many Wells
Fargo customers had advised that they either did not want, or were legally prohibited from
purchasing, MBS.
Contemporaneous Warnings Against Over-Reliance on Credit Ratings
28.
In 2005, the NASD (now FINRA) issued a written warning specifically
cautioning against over-reliance on credit ratings in connection with structured products. In a
September 2005 Notice to Members, the NASD provided guidance on the sale of structured
products. The Notice stated:
“In some cases, structured products are assigned a credit rating by a
nationally recognized statistical rating organization. To the extent that such credit
rating pertains to the creditworthiness of the issuer (i.e., the ability of the issuer to
meet its obligations under the terms of the structured product) and is not
indicative of the market risk associated with the structured product or the
reference security, members must be careful to delineate these distinctions.
Presentation of a credit rating for a structured product that suggests that the
rating pertains to the safety of the principal invested or the likely investment
returns will be viewed as misleading. Members presenting a credit rating must
address the fact that the creditworthiness of the issuer does not affect or
enhance the likely performance of the investment other than the ability of the
issuer to meet its obligations. (emphasis added)”
7

29.
At least one of the SIV PPMs explained that the collateral assets of the programs
were “structured finance securities.”
30.
Similarly, cautionary statements in many of the PPMs warned against such overreliance on credit ratings. For example, the Rhinebridge PPM included a disclaimer that “a rating
does not comment as to...suitability for a particular investor….”
31.
Nevertheless, Wells Fargo and certain of its registered representatives relied
almost exclusively on the credit ratings assigned to asset-backed commercial paper programs in
making recommendations to their customers.
Wells Fargo’s Sale of SIV-Lite Asset-Backed Commercial Paper
32.
One particular municipal entity had been a customer of Wells Fargo, or a
predecessor, since at least 1988. This customer’s investment objectives were safety of principal
and income. Wells Fargo had a policy that prohibited its registered representatives from selecting
investments on behalf of their customers in the absence of express written authority to do so.
Nonetheless, Respondent McMurtry, who held the title of Vice President, selected which
commercial paper issuers this municipal entity would purchase and executed the investments on
the customer’s behalf. Wells Fargo’s internal records for the customer’s account specifically
stated that the account should not invest in MBS. In addition, applicable state law prohibited
municipal entities such as this customer from investing in certain “high-risk mortgage-backed
securities.”
33.
Respondent McMurtry nevertheless selected and purchased for this municipal
customer a SIV-issued asset-backed commercial paper program which was backed by MBS and
related high-risk mortgage-backed derivatives. In selecting the commercial paper issuer for the
customer, McMurtry was exercising discretionary authority. On April 30, 2007, McMurtry
selected and purchased Golden Key on behalf of the customer. McMurtry did not know what a
SIV was at that time he selected Golden Key for his customer. Further, he did not read the PPM
for Golden Key, nor did he inform the customer of the risks related to the SIV structure or the
underlying high-risk mortgage-backed assets held by Golden Key.
34.
The municipal customer’s investment in Golden Key was due to mature on
September 28, 2007, but was downgraded on August 23, 2007 and defaulted thereafter. Until the
default of Golden Key, the customer’s representatives believed Wells Fargo purchased only
traditional commercial paper on its behalf. It was only after the default that they learned about
the risks and nature of Golden Key asset-backed commercial paper.
Subsequent Developments
35.
In or about August 2007, as the market for asset-backed commercial paper
contracted severely, Wells Fargo determined that credit ratings did not accurately reflect the risks
of certain asset-backed commercial paper. As a result, on August 15, 2007, Wells Fargo made
the decision to suspend the sale of all asset-backed commercial paper to its customers.
36.
In addition, as part of the liquidation of Golden Key, Mainsail and Rhinebridge,
two of the ten Wells Fargo customers elected to receive a one-time cash distribution at a severe
8

discount to the amounts of their original investments. As a result, these two customers realized
losses of approximately $4.2 million. Another six Wells Fargo customers, however, elected to
receive periodic payments from the underlying assets that served as collateral to the SIV assetbacked commercial paper. As such, the amount of any loss that may be realized by these six
Wells Fargo customers has not yet been determined because it is dependent upon the amount of
future payments from these underlying assets.
37.
In addition, two other of these ten Wells Fargo customers filed lawsuits against
Wells Fargo in connection with their purchases of approximately $8.5 million of asset-backed
commercial paper from Rhinebridge and Golden Key. One of these customers received
$4,629,800 in a cash distribution as part of the liquidation of the investment and Wells Fargo, in
settlement of the claims against it, subsequently paid $4,157,971 to that customer. In addition,
Wells Fargo paid $489,410 to the second customer to settle its claim.
38.
Since 2007, Wells Fargo has taken a number of remedial measures designed to
ensure that Wells Fargo and its registered representatives have adequate information about the
nature and risk of the securities that they recommend to customers, and that relevant information
will be disclosed to the customers regarding such securities. The steps include: (1) a Wells Fargo
Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Permitted List wherein the offering documents for asset-backed
commercial paper are reviewed by money market traders and a limited number of commercial
paper products are permitted for sale to institutional customers; (2) enhanced supervisory
procedures related to the assessment of product knowledge by registered representatives in the
relevant designated sales force who sell commercial paper to municipalities; (3) quarterly
meetings attended by the heads of each fixed income trading desk, the national sales manager
and representatives of the compliance department during which products sold to municipal and
other customers and developments in those product types are reviewed as are the relevant trading
desk reports on variations or modifications in the market that presently raise or are expected to
raise materially new or different risks or that exhibit other characteristics that may require
reassessment of the sales force’s understanding of the product; and (4) the practice of delivering,
or providing electronic access to, copies of offering materials to purchasers of asset-backed
commercial paper.
Legal Discussion
39.
Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act prohibits any person, in the offer or sale of
any security, from obtaining money or property by means of any untrue statement of material
fact or any omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. Section 17(a)(3) of the
Securities Act prohibits any person, in the offer and sale of any security, from engaging in any
transaction, practice, or course of business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit
upon the purchaser. Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act do not require a showing
of scienter. Aaron v. SEC, 466 U.S. 680 (1980). A showing of negligence is sufficient to
establish violations of these provisions. Id. at 701-702.
40. A broker’s recommendation “carries the implicit representation that it was
‘responsibly made on the basis of actual knowledge and careful consideration.’ Richard G.
Cody, Exchange Act Rel. No. 64565 at 12 (May 27, 2011) citing F.J. Kaufman & Co. of Va., 50
9

S.E.C. 164, 168 n. 18 (1989) (citing Alexander Reid & Co., Inc., 40 S.E.C. 986, 990-91 (1962)
(‘A broker-dealer in his dealings with customers impliedly represents that his opinions and
predictions respecting a [security] which he has undertaken to recommend are responsibly made
on the basis of actual knowledge and careful consideration . . . . [I]t is not a sufficient excuse that
a dealer personally believes the representation for which he has no adequate basis.’); Distribution
by Broker-Dealers of Unregistered Securities, Exchange Act Rel. No. 6721 (Feb. 2, 1962)
(‘[T]he making of recommendations for the purchase of a security implies that the dealer has a
reasonable basis for such recommendations which, in turn, requires that, as a prerequisite, he
shall have made a reasonable investigation.’) See also Hanly v. SEC, 415 F.2d 589, 596-597 (2d.
Cir. 1969) (“Broker-dealers occupy a special relationship with buyers of securities in that by
their position they implicitly represent that they have an adequate and reasonable basis for the
opinions they render.”) A broker or salesperson who fails to investigate facts surrounding a
security and who subsequently recommends that security to customers without having an
adequate and reasonable basis for that recommendation may be in violation of the antifraud
provisions of the federal securities laws, including Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the
Securities Act. SEC v. Great Lakes Equities, 1990 WL 260587 at*6 (E.D. Mich. Sept. 4, 1990)
citing Hanly, 415 F.2d at 592. Broker-dealers that recommend securities to their customers have
an obligation to disclose all material information the broker-dealer has regarding the securities,
including negative information. DeKwiatkowski v. Bear, Stearns & Co.¸Inc., 306 F.3d 1293,
1302 (2d Cir. 2002) (Broker-dealer “is obliged to give honest and complete information when
recommending a purchase or sale”); see also Dane S. Faber, Exchange Act Rel. 49216 at 5 (Feb.
10, 2004) (Broker who recommended security to a customer should have disclosed to customer
the speculative nature of security.)
41.
As a result of the conduct described above, Wells Fargo and McMurtry willfully
violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act. 4
Wells Fargo's Remedial Efforts
42. In determining to accept Wells Fargo's Offer, the Commission considered remedial
acts undertaken by Wells Fargo.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest
to impose the sanctions agreed to in the Respondents’ Offers.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 15(b) of the Exchange
Act and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:

4

A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what he is
doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C.
Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor “also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts."
Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)).

10

Wells Fargo
A.
Respondent Wells Fargo shall cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act.
B.

Respondent Wells Fargo is censured.

C.
Respondent Wells Fargo shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay
disgorgement of $65,000, prejudgment interest of $16,571.96 and a civil money penalty in the
amount of $6,500,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Shawn McMurtry
D.
Respondent McMurtry shall cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act.
E.
Respondent McMurtry be, and hereby is, suspended from association with any
broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, transfer agent, municipal advisor,
or nationally recognized statistical ratings organization, is prohibited from serving or acting as an
employee, officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or
principal underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such
investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter, and is suspended from participating in
any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other
person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the issuance or
trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the purchase or sale of any penny
stock, for a period of six months, effective on the second Monday following the entry of this
Order.
F. Respondent McMurtry shall provide to the Commission, within thirty (30) days after
the end of the six-month suspension period described above, an affidavit that he has complied
fully with the suspension.
G.
Respondent McMurtry shall, within ten days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil
money penalty in the amount of $25,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Payments and Distributions
H.
All payments pursuant to paragraphs IV. C and G above, shall be: (A) made by
wire transfer, United States postal money order, certified check, bank cashier’s check or bank
money order; (b) made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission; (C) hand-delivered
or mailed to Enterprise Services Center, HQ Bldg, Room 181, AMZ-341, 6500 South MacArthur
Blvd, Oklahoma City, OK 73169; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies each
Respondent as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, a copy
of which cover letter and money order or check shall be sent to Peter K.M. Chan, U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission, 175 W. Jackson Boulevard, Suite 900, Chicago, Illinois 60604. If
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717 and/or
SEC Rule of Practice 600.
11

I.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair
Fund is created for the disgorgement, interest, and penalties described in Paragraphs IV.C. and
G. above. Regardless of whether any such distribution is made from such Fair Fund, amounts
ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties
paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent
effect of the civil penalties, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, they shall not
argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of
compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in
this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty
Offset, Respondents agree that any Respondent receiving such offset shall, within 30 days after
entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action
and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the
Commission directs. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall
not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For
purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought
against any of the Respondents by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially
the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
J.
The disgorgement, pre-judgment interest, civil penalties and any other funds
which may be paid to the Fair Fund through or as the result of related actions, shall be
aggregated in the Fair Fund, which shall be maintained solely at Wells Fargo's expense in an
interest-bearing account, and shall be distributed pursuant to a distribution plan (the “Plan”).
Respondent Wells Fargo shall retain, solely at Wells Fargo's expense, within 30 days of the date
of entry of the Order, the services of a Fund Administrator (the “Administrator”), not
unacceptable to the staff of the Commission. The Administrator shall identify the Wells Fargo
customers that held positions in the three SIV-Lite issued asset-backed commercial paper
programs at the time of their respective defaults, evaluate such customers' claims and propose a
plan, subject to the approval of the staff, and effectuate that plan to distribute the Fair Fund
resulting from this Order. The Fair Fund shall be used to compensate for customer losses
pursuant to the Administrator's plan. Under no circumstances shall any part of the Fair Fund be
returned to Wells Fargo or McMurtry. Respondent Wells Fargo shall pay all reasonable costs
and expenses of such distribution within thirty (30) days after receipt of an invoice for such
services.
By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

12

