UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9995 / December 21, 2015
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17011

In the Matter of

ORDER FIXING TIME AND PLACE
OF PUBLIC HEARING AND
INSTITUTING PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8(d) OF
THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933

the Registration Statement of
Blue Mountain Eco Tours, Inc.
11 Rocky Road, Queensborough
Kingston, Jamaica 19
Respondent.

I.
The Commission’s public official files disclose that:
On April 25, 2012, Respondent filed a Form S-1 registration statement seeking to
register the offer and sale of 3,041,000 common shares. The registration statement was
amended on August 13, 2012, January 24, 2013, August 2, 2013, September 20, 2013,
October 10, 2013, October 29, 2013, and November 12, 2013 (together, the “Registration
Statement”). The Registration Statement has not been declared effective.

II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
A.

RESPONDENT

1.
Respondent is a revoked Nevada corporation headquartered in
Kingston, Jamaica. Respondent is delinquent with its annual filing fee obligations and its
submission of its list of officers. It has not paid filing fees nor submitted its list of officers
from December 31, 2012 to present.

B.

MATERIAL MISSTATEMENTS AND OMISSIONS

2.
The Registration Statement includes untrue statements of material
facts and omits to state material facts necessary to make the statements contained therein
not misleading. The untrue statements and omissions of material facts are as follows:
a.
The Registration Statement states that Respondent has a sole
officer and director and that “[w]e have no significant employees other than our sole
officer and director…” These disclosures are false and misleading because Respondent
has undisclosed control persons and/or promoters, who are different than the sole officer
and director listed in the Registration Statement. One of the undisclosed control persons
and/or promoters:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.

v.

vi.
vii.

viii.

had sole signatory authority over Respondent’s bank
account;
was listed as Respondent’s corporate secretary;
authorized over 30 ATM withdrawals from
Respondent’s bank account for unknown purposes;
paid fees to professionals that facilitated the filing of
Respondent’s Registration Statement, including to its
auditor and attorney;
withdrew thousands of dollars of so-called consulting
fees and travel expenses from Respondent’s bank
account;
established Respondent’s website;
communicated with the law firm that facilitated the
filing of Respondent’s Registration Statement
providing it with drafts of its Form S-1 and draft
responses to the Commission’s Division of
Corporation Finance staff’s comments to
Respondent’s Registration Statement; and
has custody of all of Respondent’s corporate
documents.

b.
The Registration Statement states that the Respondent’s sole
officer and director loaned $15,219 to the company. This disclosure is false and
misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and director did not loan any money to
Respondent.
c.
The Registration Statement states that Respondent repaid its sole
officer and director $10,000 of the loan. This disclosure is false and misleading because
Respondent did not repay any money to its sole officer and director.
d.
The Registration Statement states that Respondent’s sole officer
and director “earned the Sustainable Travel Certification.” This disclosure is false and

2

misleading because Respondent’s sole officer and director did not earn the Sustainable
Travel Certification.
e.
The Registration Statement states that Respondent was founded in
Montego Bay, Jamaica with the company “providing hiking expeditions into the Blue
Mountain region.” This disclosure is false and misleading because Respondent was not
founded in Montego Bay, Jamaica and has no operations.
f.
The Registration Statement states that Respondent is a Nevada
corporation. This disclosure is false and misleading because Respondent’s corporate
status is listed as “revoked.”
III.
The Commission, having considered the aforesaid, deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public proceedings pursuant to Section 8(d) of the Securities Act be
instituted with respect to the Registration Statement to determine whether the allegations of
the Division of Enforcement are true; to afford the Respondent with an opportunity to
establish any defenses to these allegations; and to determine whether a stop order should
issue suspending the effectiveness of the Registration Statement referred to herein.
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that public proceedings be and hereby are
instituted under Section 8(d) of the Securities Act, such hearing to be commenced at 9:30
a.m. on January 8, 2016, at the Commission's offices at 100 F Street N.E., Washington,
DC 20549, and to continue thereafter at such time and place as the hearing officer may
determine.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that these proceedings shall be presided over by an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order, who is authorized to
perform all the duties of an Administrative Law Judge as set forth in the Commission's
Rules of Practice or as otherwise provided by law.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Respondent shall file an Answer to the
allegations contained in this Order within ten (10) days after service of this Order,
pursuant to Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220. If the
Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being
duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be
determined against the Respondent upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of
which may be deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and
201.310. This Order shall be served forthwith upon the Respondent in accordance with
Rule 141 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §201.141.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 120 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. In the absence of an appropriate

3

waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission engaged in the performance of
investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually related proceeding will be
permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, except as witness or counsel
in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not “rule making” within
the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not deemed subject
to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final Commission
action.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

4

