UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9893 / August 17, 2015
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 75710 /August 17, 2015
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4174 / August 17, 2015
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16757
In the Matter of
Citigroup Alternative Investments LLC
and
Citigroup Global Markets Inc.,
Respondents.

ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECTION 15(b)(4)
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934, AND SECTIONS 203(e) and 203(k) OF
THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-ANDDESIST ORDER

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”), Section 15(b)(4)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Citigroup Alternative Investments LLC
(“CAI”) and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. (“CGMI”) (together, “Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings

herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondents and the subject matter of
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of
1933, Section 15(b)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a
Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds that:
Summary
These proceedings concern material misstatements and omissions made by Respondents
between 2002 and 2007 in the offer and sale of securities in two now-defunct hedge funds—the
ASTA and MAT funds (“ASTA/MAT”) and the Falcon Strategies funds (“Falcon”). The
ASTA/MAT and Falcon funds were recommended and sold by two groups of individuals, the
“financial advisers” of Smith Barney and the “private bankers” of Citigroup Private Bank (together,
the “financial advisers”), to their advisory clients. The financial advisers were associated with
respondent CGMI. Both funds were managed by respondent CAI, which acted through its
employees, including an employee who had a primary role in creating the funds and serving as the
funds’ manager during the relevant time period (the “fund manager”). Respondents raised
approximately $2.898 billion from approximately 4,000 investors in ASTA/MAT and Falcon. In
2008, both funds collapsed resulting in billions of dollars in losses.
From 2002 through 2008 (the “relevant period”), financial advisers and the fund manager
misrepresented the funds’ risks and performance to advisory clients, who were told that the
investments were “safe,” “low-risk,” “bond substitutes” and suitable for traditional bond investors,
despite statements in marketing documents that the funds should not be viewed as a bond substitute.
In addition, while the risk of principal loss was disclosed in written materials provided to clients,
certain financial advisers and the fund manager orally minimized the significant risk of loss
resulting from, among other things, the funds’ investment strategy and use of leverage. Investors
were also told that the biggest risk facing ASTA/MAT was the adoption of a flat income tax by the
federal government. Financial advisers encouraged many of their advisory clients to sell portions of
their bond portfolios in order to invest in the funds. In late 2007, financial advisers and the fund
manager continued to offer and sell Falcon as a safe, low-risk investment, even though both funds—
the Falcon fund was 20 percent invested in the ASTA/MAT fund—began experiencing increased
margin calls and liquidity problems in the second half of 2007 that continued until the funds
collapsed.
Moreover, the fund manager was involved in virtually all fund-related communications with
the financial advisers and investors. The fund manager and the fund manager’s staff were
responsible for drafting and reviewing offering materials for the funds, crafting sales pitches to
investors, training CAI sales personnel (who, in turn, were responsible for marketing the funds to
the financial advisers), drafting quarterly investor reports, disclosing interim fund performance, and
2

managing the funds themselves. Furthermore, throughout the fund offerings and fund operations,
the fund manager and the fund manager’s staff at CAI met with prospective investors and responded
directly to inquiries from the financial advisers concerning the funds without sufficient oversight
governing those oral communications. The fund manager and his staff at CAI had significant
influence over the dissemination of information relating to the funds without review or oversight,
including information relating to the funds’ risks and performance. CAI failed to implement a
system in which the fund manager’s authority was checked adequately or to ensure that the fund
manager’s communications with investors and financial advisers concerning the ASTA/MAT and
Falcon funds were accurate and not misleading.
Respondents
1.
CAI is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Citigroup Inc. and has its principal
place of business in New York, New York. CAI was the investment manager for the ASTA/MAT
and Falcon funds. CAI had its own sales force, or “wholesalers,” who, along with the fund
manager and the fund manager’s staff, were responsible for marketing the ASTA/MAT and Falcon
funds to the financial advisers. During the relevant period, CAI had approximately $59 billion in
assets under management. CAI has been registered as an investment adviser with the Commission
since 2002.
2.
CGMI is an affiliated company of Citigroup Inc. and has its principal place of
business in New York, New York. During the relevant period, Smith Barney was a business
division of CGMI. The financial advisers who recommended and sold ASTA/MAT and Falcon
fund shares to investors were associated persons of CGMI. In 2009, Smith Barney entered into a
joint venture with Morgan Stanley Global Wealth Management Group to become Morgan Stanley
Smith Barney, in which Citigroup owned a 49 percent stake in the venture and Morgan Stanley
owned the remaining 51 percent. In 2012, Morgan Stanley purchased Citigroup’s interest in the
joint venture. CGMI has been registered with the Commission since 1960 as both an investment
adviser and a broker-dealer.
Background
3.
From September 2002 through February 2007, Respondents offered and sold
approximately $1.962 billion of investments in ASTA/MAT to approximately 2,700 investors and
advisory clients of CGMI. ASTA/MAT was a municipal arbitrage fund that purchased municipal
bonds and used a Treasury or LIBOR swap to hedge interest rate risks. The ASTA/MAT fund
employed 8-12 times leverage.
4.
From October 2004 through October 2007, Respondents offered and sold
approximately $936 million of investments in Falcon to approximately 1,300 investors and
advisory clients of CGMI. Falcon was a multi-strategy fund that invested in ASTA/MAT and
other fixed income strategies, such as CDOs, CLOs, and asset-backed securities. The Falcon fund
employed 5-6 times leverage.

3

5.
Falcon and ASTA/MAT were managed in accordance with disclosed investment
strategies, including leverage guidelines. Falcon and ASTA/MAT were not offered generally to
retail investors, but were limited to “qualified purchasers” as defined by Section 2(a)(51)(A) of the
Investment Company Act of 1940 and “accredited investors” within the meaning of Rule 501(a) of
Regulation D of the Securities Act of 1933. In addition, Respondents recommended that investors
in Falcon invest no more than 10 percent of their assets and that investors in ASTA/MAT invest no
more than 5 percent of their assets.
6.
Investors in the ASTA/MAT and Falcon funds paid advisory fees for essentially
receiving two tiers of investment advice. First, the investors in both ASTA/MAT and Falcon
were advisory clients of the financial advisers (who were associated with CGMI) and paid for
investment advice, including placement fees relating to their investments. Secondly, CAI, acting
primarily through the fund manager and the fund manager’s staff, managed both the ASTA/MAT
and Falcon funds and received management fees from the investors. Investors in ASTA/MAT
and Falcon directly or indirectly paid CAI and CGMI a total of approximately $212.5 million in
fees associated with investments in the two funds. Of this amount, the Respondents returned
approximately $72.5 million to investors as compensatory payments following the collapse of
the funds.
7.
Respondents, acting through associated persons—the financial advisers, in the case
of CGMI, and the fund manager, in the case of CAI—made material misstatements and omissions
to investors in the offer and sale of shares in the ASTA/MAT and Falcon funds.
Respondents’ Violations
8.
Financial advisers and the fund manager orally represented to investors that Falcon
was a “safe,” “low-risk” investment, akin to a “bond substitute” or “bond alternative” that had the
same risk profile as a municipal bond investment but with a slightly higher return. Internal sales
pitches stated that Falcon “walks like a bond, talks like a bond, [has] cashflow like a bond” and
described Falcon as a “better version of a bond.” Consistent with that marketing theme, Falcon
was benchmarked against the Lehman Aggregate Bond Index, which is used to evaluate the
performance of bond portfolios. Some investors were encouraged to sell their unleveraged bond
portfolios in order to purchase shares in the Falcon fund.
9.
Financial advisers, the fund manager and other CAI staff involved in the marketing
of the funds also orally represented to investors that ASTA/MAT was a “safe,” “low-risk”
investment, notwithstanding certain risk disclosures in the ASTA/MAT offering materials.
Financial advisers, the fund manager and other CAI staff involved in the marketing of the funds
told investors that ASTA/MAT had a very low risk of permanent loss, particularly if investors
were willing to hold the investment for at least five years. Financial advisers and the fund manager
also told investors that the biggest risk facing the ASTA/MAT fund was the adoption of a flat
income tax by the federal government. Some investors were encouraged to sell their bond
portfolios in order to purchase shares in the ASTA/MAT fund.

4

10.
Financial advisers, the fund manager and other CAI staff involved in the marketing
of the funds made false and misleading statements regarding the risks associated with an
investment in the ASTA/MAT and Falcon funds. The funds were not bond substitutes, and an
investment in the funds carried significantly greater risk than a bond investment. The funds used
significant amounts of leverage that increased the risk of both margin calls and loss in value. In
fact, Citigroup Private Bank had an internal risk rating system that rated the funds as having
“significant risk to principal.” That rating, however, was not shared with the majority of investors
and financial advisers.
11.
Furthermore, CAI performed back-testing on a hypothetical ASTA/MAT portfolio
to evaluate the fund’s performance over a period of time. The back-testing analysis showed that an
investment in the ASTA/MAT fund carried far greater risk than that described to investors. CAI,
however, misrepresented the results of that back-testing analysis. Some financial advisers and
investors were told that the hypothetical ASTA/MAT portfolio had been back-tested over a fiveyear period (1996 to 2001), and that, over such period, the largest decline in the portfolio was
approximately 7 percent. That statement was false because the back-testing actually showed that
the portfolio, when fluctuations in bond prices over the entire time period were analyzed, declined
by up to 32 percent in value. Moreover, CAI actually had back-tested the hypothetical
ASTA/MAT portfolio over a six-year period (1995 to 2001), during which time the portfolio
declined by approximately 48 percent. Consequently, the risk of loss associated with an
investment in the ASTA/MAT fund, which also accounted for approximately 20 percent of
Falcon’s investments, was significantly higher than conveyed to some financial advisers and
investors.
12.
CAI and CGMI failed to require any changes in the way in which the funds were
described to investors, even as the funds’ performance significantly declined and the risk of
investor losses increased.
13.
In August 2007, the Falcon fund experienced margin calls. Lender or leverage
provider valuations for fund assets declined significantly while the amount of collateral demanded
by those lenders increased. In order to generate necessary liquidity and to meet increasing margin
calls, the fund manager sold approximately $2 billion of fund assets, and made an “urgent request”
for a “contingency liquidity plan”—essentially a loan from CAI or Citigroup Inc.—in the amount
of $200 million for Falcon, which was denied.
14.
As the Falcon fund experienced significant declines in liquidity, the fund manager
and some financial advisers misrepresented the fund’s performance and liquidity to investors, who
were assured that Falcon had low liquidity risks and secure financing terms. The investors were
not informed of Falcon’s liquidity issues, the sale of $2 billion in fund assets to meet margin calls,
or the fund manager’s request for a $200 million loan from CAI or Citigroup Inc.
15.
In September and October 2007, the financial advisers and CAI, acting through the
fund manager and the fund manager’s staff, recommended, offered and sold additional shares in
the Falcon fund, and raised approximately $110 million from new investors without disclosing
5

how the declining market conditions of the time were affecting Falcon’s liquidity. In fact, CAI and
CGMI continued to recommend the funds as safe, low-risk investments.
16.
From November 2007 through March 2008, Falcon continued to experience a
severe liquidity shortage. Internally, the fund manager stated that the fund’s liquidity was “getting
close to dangerous territory.” The fund manager sold over $6.4 billion of fund assets between
November 2007 and January 2008 to generate liquidity, and re-submitted a contingency liquidity
plan request to supervisors at CAI for $400 million. This, too, was denied. By January 2008, the
fund manager had drawn up potential “liquidation scenarios” for the Falcon fund.
17.
During this period, the fund manager and some financial advisers, however,
continued to misrepresent Falcon’s performance and liquidity to investors by telling them that
Falcon had “adequate liquidity” and reassuring investors that the fund was “well capitalized.”
They failed to disclose the fund’s requests for liquidity support—which were denied by CAI and
Citigroup Inc. —the increasing margin calls, and the sale of over $8.4 billion in fund assets to meet
Falcon’s margin calls. CAI lacked policies and procedures that would have ensured that
communications with investors were consistent with the funds’ actual performance and liquidity
position.
18.
During this same time period—late 2007 and early 2008—the fund manager also
orally misrepresented the condition of the ASTA/MAT fund and its ability to survive a declining
market. By the fall of 2007, the fund manager was instructed by supervisors at CAI to begin
selling ASTA/MAT assets in order to reduce the fund’s leverage. Despite the negative market
conditions and instructions to begin reducing leverage, the fund manager continued to tell investors
that the biggest risk to the fund was the adoption of a flat income tax by the federal government.
The fund manager reassured investors just weeks before the fund collapsed that the risk of loss was
minimal.
19.
CAI failed to adopt and implement policies and procedures to prevent the
misrepresentations made to investors. The fund manager had virtually complete control of the
information disseminated to investors without sufficient review to ensure that those
communications were accurate. CAI employed its own sales personnel, or wholesalers, who were
educated on the funds by the fund manager. The fund manager and the fund manager’s staff
drafted sales pitches for the wholesalers that were not subject to review or approval by anyone
outside of the fund manager’s staff, including anyone in the compliance group. Those sales pitches
and talking points misrepresented the risks of the funds. The wholesalers, in turn, were responsible
for marketing the funds to the financial advisers. The fund manager and the fund manager’s staff
were also responsible for educating the financial advisers on the risks of the funds, and fielded
client and other inquiries from financial advisers concerning the funds. Finally, in many instances,
the fund manager and the fund manager’s staff also had direct communications with investors,
during which they misrepresented the funds’ risks. CAI failed to exert reasonable oversight for the
sales pitches, talking points, and oral communications made by the fund manager to the financial
advisers and investors.

6

20.
In addition, the fund manager and the fund manager’s staff played a significant role
in drafting and disseminating information regarding the funds to investors and financial advisers
without sufficient review or oversight to ensure that the information given to investors was
accurate. In particular, the fund manager and the fund manager’s staff designed, implemented and
analyzed the back-testing for ASTA/MAT. They also drafted the quarterly investor reports and
provided investors and financial advisers with performance information orally in meetings and on
conference calls that did not fully disclose negative fund performance. CAI failed to exert
reasonable oversight over these functions.
21.
As a result of the conduct described above, CAI and CGMI willfully violated
Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer
or sale of securities. In addition, CGMI willfully violated Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act,
which prohibits any adviser from engaging in any transaction, practice or course of business which
operates as a fraud or deceit upon any client or prospective client, and CAI willfully violated
Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 promulgated thereunder, which prohibit an
investment adviser from providing investment advice to clients without adopting and implementing
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the Act and the Rules
adopted under the Act, and Rule 206(4)-8 promulgated thereunder, which prohibits an investment
adviser to a pooled investment vehicle from making any untrue statement of a material fact or
omitting to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in the light of the
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, to any investor or prospective investor
in the pooled investment vehicle.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act, Section 15(b)(4) of the
Exchange Act and Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Respondents CAI and CGMI shall cease and desist from committing or causing any
violations and any future violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act.
Additionally, CGMI shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act, and CAI shall cease and desist from
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 206(4) of the Advisers
Act and Rules 206(4)-7 and 206(4)-8 promulgated thereunder.
B.

Respondents CAI and CGMI are censured.

C.
Respondents shall, within ten days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$139,950,239 and prejudgment interest of $39,612,089 to the Securities and Exchange
Commission. If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule
of Practice 600. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
7

(1) Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;
(2) Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the
SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal
money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and handdelivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Citigroup Alternative Investments LLC and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. as Respondents in these
proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or
money order must be sent to Sanjay Wadhwa, Senior Associate Regional Director, Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, New York Regional Office, Brookfield Place,
200 Vesey Street, Suite 400, New York, NY 10281.
D.
A plan of distribution shall be submitted within 120 days of payment in full by
Respondents of the disgorgement and prejudgment interest ordered. Commission staff may
extend the deadline for plan submission for good cause shown. Respondents shall bear the costs
of any administration and distribution of funds to investors in the ASTA/MAT and Falcon funds
ordered hereunder, including all fees of professionals that provide related services to the distribution
of the fund, including tax administration. A fund administrator shall be entitled to reasonable fees
and reimbursement for reasonable costs and expenses in connection with overseeing and
administering the fund distribution. Respondents will pay all reasonable costs and expenses
associated with the administration of the distribution, including the cost of the fund administrator
bond.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

8

