UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
Release No. 9374 / December 17, 2012
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 3514 / December 17, 2012
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15134

In The Matter Of
ALADDIN CAPITAL
MANAGEMENT LLC AND
ALADDIN CAPITAL LLC,
Respondents.

ORDER INSTITUTING
CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 8A OF THE
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND
SECTION 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF
1940, MAKING FINDINGS, AND
IMPOSING A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of
the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Section 203(k) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Aladdin Capital Management LLC
(“Aladdin Management”) and Aladdin Capital LLC (“Aladdin Capital” and collectively,
with Aladdin Management, “Aladdin” or “Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or
denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the
subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry
of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 8A of the
Securities Act of 1933 and Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds that:
A.

SUMMARY

1.
This case involves complex structured financial products known as
collateralized debt obligations (“CDOs”). CDOs are securities backed by debt obligations
including, for example, subprime residential mortgage-backed securities. The underlying
mortgage-backed, or other, securities are packaged and generally held by a special purpose
vehicle that issues notes entitling their holders to payments derived from the underlying
assets.
2.
In late 2006, Aladdin Management marketed to its clients two CDOs that it
was managing and stated that it would co-invest in the same CDOs. Aladdin Management
did not co-invest as it represented. Aladdin Capital collected a placement fee from the
CDOs’ underwriters. From 2007 to 2010, after three clients had invested in these two
CDOs, Aladdin Management erroneously continued to inform its clients that Aladdin
Management co-invests alongside them.
B.

RESPONDENTS

3.
Aladdin Management is an SEC-registered investment adviser based in
Stamford, Connecticut. During the relevant time period, Aladdin Management had assets
under management of approximately $20 billion, which consisted predominantly of cash
and synthetic CDOs, collateralized loan obligations (“CLOs”), several credit hedge funds,
and separately managed accounts. Aladdin Management’s typical practice was to act as the
collateral manager for CDOs and CLOs underwritten by major investment banks.
4.
Aladdin Capital, during the relevant time period, was an SEC-registered
broker-dealer based in Stamford, Connecticut. Aladdin Capital primarily placed CDO and
CLO securities. On January 30, 2012, Aladdin Capital filed a Form BDW with the
Commission, thus seeking to terminate its registration as a broker-dealer. It became
effective on March 30, 2012.
C.

FACTS
Aladdin’s Advisory Program and Marketing Statements

5.
In 2005, Aladdin Management began an investment advisory program
called the “Multiple Asset Securitized Tranche” (“MAST”) program. Under the MAST
program, Aladdin Management and its clients signed investment management agreements
under which Aladdin Management agreed to render investment management services, and
the client agreed to commit to invest in the equity tranche of certain upcoming CDO or
CLO deals that would be managed by Aladdin Management. Aladdin Management
represented to its MAST clients that it was serving as their investment adviser and

2

disclosed to the Commission on its Form ADV that MAST accounts were a type of
separately managed account. Aladdin Management did not receive advisory fees directly
from MAST clients; rather Aladdin Management informed its clients and the Commission
on its Form ADV that Aladdin Management would be compensated from the management
fees that it earned through managing the CDOs that its clients invested in. Aladdin Capital
placed the equity interest with the client and typically received a negotiated (usually tenpercent) placement fee or commission from the CDOs’ or CLOs’ underwriter for doing so.
6.
When marketing the MAST program, Aladdin Management and Aladdin
Capital stated that Aladdin Management would co-invest in the same equity tranches of
each CDO or CLO alongside its clients. Aladdin Management’s co-investment
representation was a key feature of, and selling point for, the MAST program. For
example, Aladdin Management explained in marketing material that, “[w]e align our
interests with MAST investors by co-investing in every transaction with them. And don’t
forget, we are not investing in other firms’ transactions. Instead, we only invest in deals
where we can control the management of the collateral - our own programs.” In the same
marketing piece, Aladdin Management also posed the question, “[w]hy is an investor
better off just investing in Aladdin sponsored CLOs and CDOs?” Aladdin Management
answered by emphasizing that the “most powerful response I can give to your question is
that Aladdin co-invests alongside MAST investors in every program. Putting meaningful
‘skin in the game’ as we do means our financial interests are aligned with those of our
MAST investors.” Aladdin Capital also emphasized that Aladdin Management would coinvest in the same products when marketing specific CDOs to potential MAST
participants.
7.
In addition, Aladdin Management continued to represent that it co-invests in
the same CDOs as its clients after those clients had made their investments. Investment
reports sent to clients each quarter indicated that: “Aladdin Capital Management co-invests
in each of the CDO equity investments represented in the MAST program.” The standard
investment management agreement and the quarterly MAST investor reports also indicated
that Aladdin Management acted as a fiduciary to the MAST program.
8.
As Aladdin Management explained in its marketing materials, co-investing
in the same CDO deals as its clients was one of the most “powerful” statements it could
make because it showed that Aladdin Management had “skin in the game” and that its
financial interests were aligned with those of its clients. Also, because the equity tranche of
the CDOs were typically the riskiest tranche and in the first loss position, having the CDO
manager as an investor in the same tranche gave investors additional assurances that they
could trust the CDO.

3

Aladdin Management Stated That It Would Co-Invest Alongside Each
MAST Participant But Failed To Co-Invest In the Fortius and Citius
CDOs
9.
Despite the centrality of its representations that it would co-invest, and had
co-invested, in CDOs alongside its MAST clients, Aladdin Management failed to co-invest
in two CDOs that it offered to MAST clients in late 2006. In particular, Aladdin
Management failed to co-invest in the Fortius II Funding, Ltd. (“Fortius”) CDO and the
Citius II Funding Ltd. (“Citius”) CDO despite the fact that three MAST clients invested in
the equity tranches of those CDOs.
Aladdin Management Stated it Would Co-Invest Alongside A
Municipal Retirement Plan in the Fortius CDO
10.
One potential MAST client that Aladdin pursued was a retirement plan for
approximately 10,000 employees of a municipal transportation agency (the “Municipal
Retirement Plan”). Aladdin Management and Aladdin Capital began pitching the MAST
program to the Municipal Retirement Plan in 2005 or 2006.
11.
When pitching the MAST program, Aladdin Management and Aladdin
Capital emphasized that Aladdin Management would co- invest alongside the Municipal
Retirement Plan’s CDO investments. Aladdin made such representations at key points in
the Municipal Retirement Plan’s decision-making process. For example, in early 2006,
Aladdin highlighted to the Municipal Retirement Plan that Aladdin Management invested
alongside MAST participants in the same investments. Subsequently, in April 2006, one of
the Municipal Retirement Plan’s representatives recommended that the Plan invest in
MAST in part based on the “key feature” that MAST had a “significant alignment of
interest with [Aladdin Management] co-investing alongside MAST investors.”
12.
During the process of soliciting the Municipal Retirement Plan’s investment
in the MAST program, Aladdin Management and Aladdin Capital continued to emphasize
the co-investment benefit of the MAST program. In particular:
a. On May 11, 2006, Aladdin Capital registered representatives
presented an “Aladdin overview” and “MAST summary” to the
Municipal Retirement Plan. One of those employees stated that
Aladdin Management co-invests in the equity tranche of CDOs in the
MAST program, up to at least ten percent of the client’s MAST
investment;
b. On May 12, 2006, a registered representative of Aladdin Capital sent
an email to the Municipal Retirement Plan stating that: “As [another
former employee of Aladdin] mentioned yesterday, Aladdin also coinvests in the identical equity tranches up to at least 10 % of your
MAST allocation, further aligning our economic interests with those
of our clients in this regard;”

4

c. On July 18, 2006, another Aladdin Capital registered representative
(who was also an Aladdin Management employee) emailed to the
Municipal Retirement Plan a MAST “executive summary” and other
marketing material. Both documents highlighted Aladdin
Management’s co-investment representation. In the cover email, the
employee noted: “[a]s outlined in the enclosures, we also coinvestment [sic] in the same CDO equity tranches as our clients,
which we believe helps to align our economic interests”; and
d. On August 3, 2006, Aladdin Management provided the Municipal
Retirement Plan with a sample MAST report, which contained the coinvestment representation.
13.
Even after the Municipal Retirement Plan signed an investment agreement
to participate in the MAST program, Aladdin continued to represent that it would invest
alongside it in the particular CDO programs it chose to invest in.
14.
Aladdin Capital offered the Municipal Retirement Plan an investment in the
Fortius CDO. On November 21, 2006, Aladdin Capital specifically informed the
Municipal Retirement Plan that Aladdin Management would co-invest in Fortius. On
December 6, 2006, the Municipal Retirement Plan purchased $5,000,000 in the equity
tranche of the Fortius CDO directly from the underwriter of the Fortius CDO. Aladdin
Management did not make the required $500,000 co-investment in the Fortius CDO.
15.
When Aladdin Management made its statements to the Municipal
Retirement Plan that it would co-invest in the Fortius CDO, it had taken no steps to make
that co-investment. To the contrary, by November 3, 2006, which was the pricing date for
the Fortius CDO, Aladdin knew that the Fortius CDO’s underwriter had preliminarily
allocated $5,000,000 of the equity tranche of the Fortius CDO to Aladdin and/or its clients.
A former Aladdin employee informed other former employees of Aladdin that the
Municipal Retirement Plan would purchase the entire $5 million allocation. Aladdin
Management took no steps, either internally or in communications with the Fortius CDO’s
underwriter, to reserve for itself a portion of the equity tranche of the Fortius CDO. To the
contrary, during November 2006, Aladdin Capital communicated to the underwriter of the
Fortius CDO that the Municipal Retirement Plan would instead purchase Aladdin’s entire
allocation of the Fortius CDO’s equity tranche.
16.
Soon after the Municipal Retirement Plan’s $5 million purchase of the
Fortius CDO, Aladdin Capital communicated with the underwriter for the Fortius CDO
and requested that it be paid the previously agreed-upon 10 percent placement fee (in the
amount of $500,000) for its work in placing Fortius securities with the Municipal
Retirement Plan. The underwriter paid Aladdin Capital that fee in December 2006.
17.
From 2007 to 2010, Aladdin Management sent periodic investment reports
to the Municipal Retirement Plan reflecting the performance of the Plan’s investment in

5

the Fortius CDO. The investment reports indicated that Aladdin Management co-invests in
each CDO investment made as part of the MAST program. This representation was
inaccurate, and it was contained in numerous investment reports.
Aladdin Management Stated It Would Co-Invest Alongside Two
Other MAST Program Participants in the Citius CDO
18.
In December 2006, Aladdin Capital sold investments in the equity tranche
of the Citius CDO to two MAST participants. The two clients were a pension plan for a
chain of retail stores (the “Pension Plan”), and an individual entrepreneur who invested his
personal funds and also the funds of his charitable foundation in the MAST program (the
“Individual Client”).
19.
Both the Pension Plan and the Individual Client decided to participate in the
MAST program, and were informed that Aladdin Management would co-invest alongside
them in each CDO investment they made as part of the MAST program.
20.
Specifically, in 2005, Aladdin Management sent the Individual Client a
“letter of intent” concerning his plan to participate in the MAST program and thus invest in
CDOs managed by Aladdin Management. The letter of intent contained a provision
representing that “Aladdin will co-invest with Client in the identical Preference Share
equity tranches in the MAST program. Aladdin’s investment, in aggregate, will be equal
to at least 10 % of Client’s total Preference Share investment in the MAST program.”
After receiving this letter, the Individual Client agreed to participate in the MAST
program, and invested in several CDOs and CLOs in late 2005 and early 2006.
Throughout 2006, Aladdin Management sent the Individual Client MAST investment
reports indicating that Aladdin Management co-invests in each CDO investment made as
part of the MAST program.
21.
Beginning in September 2006, Aladdin Capital offered the Individual Client
an investment in the Citius CDO. On December 1, 2006, Aladdin Capital - on behalf of
the Individual Client - purchased $4,100,000 in the equity tranche of the Citius CDO from
the underwriter of the Citius CDO. Subsequently, in early 2007, Aladdin Capital
transferred the entire investment to the Individual Client. Aladdin Management did not
make the required $410,000 co-investment in the Citius CDO.
22.
Despite its statements in MAST materials about its co-investments with
clients, Aladdin Management took no steps to co-invest in the Citius CDO. In mid-2006,
when Aladdin Management was engaged to manage the Citius CDO by its underwriter,
Aladdin Management committed to the underwriter that it or its clients would purchase at
least 25% of the $16 million equity tranche of the Citius CDO.
23.
By September 26, 2006, Aladdin Management had taken no action to
reserve for itself a portion of the equity tranche of the Citius CDO. Another party had
agreed to underwrite $8 million in the equity and Aladdin Capital sought to place the
remaining $8 million with its own customers for a placement fee without investing any of

6

its own money. On September 26, 2006, a former Aladdin executive informed the
underwriter for the Citius CDO that Aladdin Capital wanted to “soft circle the remaining
4.1 mm in equity and get paid 10 pts [points]” for selling it. In response to the
underwriter’s question about when Aladdin Capital would be firm on selling the remaining
portion of the equity tranche, the former Aladdin executive responded that he should know
by the end of the “week” and could know by “tomorrow.”
24.
Also on September 26, 2006, Aladdin Capital offered a $4,100,000
investment in the Citius CDO to the Individual Client, and the Individual Client agreed to
make that investment.
25.
Aladdin Management took no steps, either internally or in communications
with the Citius CDO’s underwriter, to reserve for itself an investment of $410,000 in the
equity tranche of the Citius CDO.
26.
On or about December 1, 2006, the underwriter for the Citius CDO paid
Aladdin Capital a $410,000 placement fee for its work in placing Citius securities with the
Individual Client.
27.
From 2007 to 2010, Aladdin Management sent periodic investment reports
to the Individual Client reflecting the performance of his investment in the Citius CDO.
The investment reports indicated that Aladdin Management co-invests in each CDO
investment made as part of the MAST program. This representation was inaccurate, and it
was contained in numerous investment reports.
28.
With respect to the Pension Plan, Aladdin pitched the MAST program to
this client in July 2005. The Pension Plan received the standard MAST program letter of
intent, and other standard MAST marketing materials, which included the co-investment
representation.
29.

In 2005, the Pension Plan agreed to participate in the MAST program.

30.
In approximately October 2006, Aladdin Capital offered to sell to the
Pension Plan an investment in the equity tranche of the Citius CDO. The Pension Plan
agreed to invest in the equity tranche of the Citius CDO, in the amount of $3,900,000.
31.
On or about December 1, 2006, the underwriter for the Citius CDO paid
Aladdin Capital a $390,000 placement fee for its work in placing Citius securities with the
Pension Plan.
D.

VIOLATIONS

32.
Section 17(a)(2) of the Securities Act prohibits any person "in the offer or
sale of any securities or securities-based swap agreement . . . [from] obtain[ing] money or
property by means of any untrue statement of material fact or any omission to state a
material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances

7

under which they were made, not misleading." Scienter is not required to establish
violations of Section 17(a)(2). See Aaron v. SEC, 446 U.S. 680, 697 (1980). Instead,
violations of this section may be established by showing negligent conduct. SEC v. Hughes
Capital Corp., 124 F.3d 449, 453-54 (3d Cir. 1997).
33.
Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act prohibits investment advisers from
"engag[ing] in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates as a fraud or
deceit upon any client or prospective client." Proof of scienter is not required to establish a
violation of Section 206(2), but rather a violation “may rest on a finding of simple
negligence.” SEC v. Steadman, 967 F.2d 636, 643 n.5 (D.C. Cir. 1992) (citing SEC v.
Capital Gains Research Bur., Inc., 375 U.S. 180, 194-95 (1963)); see also SEC v. Wash.
Inv. Network, 475 F.2d 392, 396 (D.C. Cir. 2007).
34.
As a result of the conduct described above, Aladdin Capital violated Section
17(a)(2) of the Securities Act and Aladdin Management violated Section 206(2) of the
Advisers Act.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the
sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 203(k) of the
Advisers Act, it is hereby ORDERED that:
A.
Aladdin Management shall cease and desist from committing or causing
any violations and any future violation of Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act;
B.
Aladdin shall, jointly and severally, pay disgorgement in the amount of
$900,000 and prejudgment interest in the amount of $268,831. This sum shall be paid to
the Securities and Exchange Commission on or before December 31, 2012. If any
payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire
outstanding balance of disgorgement and prejudgment interest plus any additional interest
accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 shall be due and payable immediately,
without further application. Payment must be made in one of the following ways: (1)
Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will provide
detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; (2) Respondents may make
direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or (3) Respondent may pay by certified check,
bank cashier’s check, or United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities
and Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to Enterprise Services Center,
Accounts Receivable Branch, HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341,6500 South MacArthur
Boulevard, Oklahoma City, OK 73169. Payments by check or money order must be
accompanied by a cover letter identifying Respondents’ names as Respondents in these
proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check
or money order must be sent to John T. Dugan, Associate Regional Director, Division of

8

Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Boston Regional Office, 33 Arch
Street, 23rd Floor, Boston, MA 02110;
C.
Aladdin shall, jointly and severally, pay a civil money penalty in the
amount of $450,000. This sum shall be paid to the Securities and Exchange Commission
on or before December 31, 2012. If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall
accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1) Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; (2) Respondents may
make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the SEC website at
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or (3) Respondent may pay by certified check,
bank cashier’s check, or United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities
and Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to Enterprise Services Center,
Accounts Receivable Branch, HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341,6500 South MacArthur
Boulevard, Oklahoma City, OK 73169. Payments by check or money order must be
accompanied by a cover letter identifying Respondents’ names as Respondents in these
proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check
or money order must be sent to John T. Dugan, Associate Regional Director, Division of
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, Boston Regional Office, 33 Arch
Street, 23rd Floor, Boston, MA 02110;
D.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended,
a Fair Fund is created for the disgorgement, prejudgment interest and penalties referenced
in paragraphs B and C above. Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is
made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related
Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by,
offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of
Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”). If the court in
any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they
shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the
Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United
States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission directs. Such a payment shall not be

9

deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the
civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related
Investor Action” means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on
behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the
Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.

By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

10

