SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR PARTS 229 AND 240
RELEASE NO. 33-9723; 34-74232; IC-31450; File No. S7-01-15
RIN 3235-AL49
DISCLOSURE OF HEDGING BY EMPLOYEES, OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rule.
SUMMARY: We are proposing amendments to our rules to implement Section 955 of the
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which requires annual
meeting proxy statement disclosure of whether employees or members of the board of
directors are permitted to engage in transactions to hedge or offset any decrease in the market
value of equity securities granted to the employee or board member as compensation, or held
directly or indirectly by the employee or board member. The proposed disclosure would be
required in a proxy statement or information statement relating to an election of directors,
whether by vote of security holders at a meeting or an action authorized by written consent.
DATES: Comments should be received on or before April 20, 2015.

ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic Comments:
•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml);
1

•

Send an email to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-01-15
on the subject line; or

•

Use the Federal Rulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.

Paper Comments:
•

Send paper comments in triplicate to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, U. S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File Number S7-01-15. This file number should be included
on the subject line if email is used. To help us process and review your comments more
efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the
Commission’s Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments are
also available for website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room,
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of
10:00 am and 3:00 pm. All comments received will be posted without change; we do not edit
personal identifying information from submissions. You should submit only information that
you wish to make available publicly.
Studies, memoranda or other substantive items may be added by the Commission or
staff to the comment file during this rulemaking. A notification of the inclusion in the
comment file of any such materials will be made available on the SEC’s website. To ensure
direct electronic receipt of such notifications, sign up through the “Stay Connected” option at
www.sec.gov to receive notifications by e-mail.
2

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Carolyn Sherman, Special Counsel, or
Anne Krauskopf, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 551-3500, in the Office of Chief Counsel,
Division of Corporation Finance, and Nicholas Panos, Senior Special Counsel, at (202) 5513440, in the Office of Mergers and Acquisitions, Division of Corporation Finance; or, with
respect to investment companies, Michael Pawluk, Branch Chief, at (202) 551-6792,
Division of Investment Management, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F
Street, NE, Washington DC 20549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: We propose to amend Item 402 1 of Regulation SK 2 by revising paragraph (b) to add Instruction 6; to amend Item 407 3 of Regulation S-K to
add new paragraph (i); and to amend Schedule 14A 4 to revise Items 7 and 22.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.

INTRODUCTION

II.

BACKGROUND

III.

DISCUSSION OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
A. Transactions Subject to the Disclosure Requirement
B. Specifying the Term “Equity Securities”
C. Employees and Directors Subject to the Proposed Disclosure Requirement
D. Implementation
1. Manner and Location of Disclosure
2. Disclosure on Schedule 14C
3. Relationship to Existing CD&A Obligations
4. Issuers Subject to the Proposed Amendments

1

17 CFR 229.402.

2

17 CFR 229.10 et seq.

3

17 CFR 229.407.

4

17 CFR 14a-101.

3

a.
b.
c.

Registered Investment Companies
Emerging Growth Companies and Smaller Reporting Companies
Foreign Private Issuers

IV.

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A. Background
B. Baseline
C. Discussion of Benefits and Costs, and Anticipated Effects on Efficiency,
Competition and Capital Formation
1. Introduction
2. New Disclosure Requirements Across Covered Companies
3. Benefits and Costs
4. Anticipated Effects on Efficiency, Competition and Capital Formation
D. Alternatives
1. Changing the Scope of Disclosure Obligations
2. Issuers Subject to the Proposed Amendments
E. Request for Comments

V.

PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT
A. Background
B. Summary of the Proposed Amendments
C. Burden and Cost Estimates Related to the Proposed Amendments
D. Request for Comment

VI.

SMALL BUSINESS REGULATORY ENFORCEMENT FAIRNESS ACT

VII.

INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ACT ANALYSIS
A. Reasons for, and Objectives of, the Proposed Action
B. Legal Basis
C. Small Entities Subject to the Proposed Amendments
D. Reporting, Recordkeeping and other Compliance Requirements
E. Duplicative, Overlapping or Conflicting Federal Rules
F. Significant Alternatives
G. Solicitation of Comments

VIII.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TEXT OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS

4

I.

INTRODUCTION
We are proposing rule amendments to implement Section 955 of the Dodd-Frank

Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the “Act”), 5 which adds new Section 14(j)
to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”). 6 Section 14(j) directs the
Commission to require, by rule, each issuer to disclose in any proxy or consent solicitation
material for an annual meeting of the shareholders of the issuer whether any employee or
member of the board of directors of the issuer, or any designee of such employee or director,
is permitted to purchase financial instruments (including prepaid variable forward contracts,
equity swaps, collars, and exchange funds) that are designed to hedge or offset any decrease
in the market value of equity securities either (1) granted to the employee or director by the
issuer as part of the compensation of the employee or director; or (2) held, directly or
indirectly, by the employee or director.
A report issued by the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
stated that Section 14(j) is intended to “allow shareholders to know if executives are allowed
to purchase financial instruments to effectively avoid compensation restrictions that they
hold stock long-term, so that they will receive their compensation even in the case that their
firm does not perform.” 7 In this regard, we infer that the statutory purpose of Section 14(j) is
to provide transparency to shareholders, if action is to be taken with respect to the election of
5

Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1900 (July 21, 2010).

6

15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.

7

See Report of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, S. 3217, Report No. 111-176
(Apr. 30, 2010) (“Senate Report 111-176”).

5

directors, about whether employees or directors are permitted to engage in transactions that
mitigate or avoid the incentive alignment associated with equity ownership.
We propose to implement Section 14(j) as described in detail below. Neither Section
14(j) nor the proposed amendments would require a company to prohibit hedging
transactions or to otherwise adopt practices or a policy addressing hedging by any category
of individuals.
II.

BACKGROUND
The current disclosure obligations relating to company hedging policies are provided

by Item 402(b) of Regulation S-K, which sets forth the disclosure required in the company’s
Compensation Discussion and Analysis (“CD&A”). CD&A requires disclosure of material
information necessary to an understanding of a company’s compensation policies and
decisions regarding the named executive officers. 8 Item 402(b)(2)(xiii) includes, as an
example of the kind of information that should be provided, if material, the company’s equity
or other security ownership requirements or guidelines (specifying applicable amounts and
forms of ownership) and any company policies regarding hedging the economic risk of such
ownership. This CD&A disclosure item requirement, which does not apply to smaller

8

As defined in Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K, “named executive officers” are all individuals serving as the
company’s principal executive officer during the last completed fiscal year, all individuals serving as the
company’s principal financial officer during that fiscal year, the company’s three other most highly
compensated executive officers who were serving as executive officers at the end of that year, and up to two
additional individuals who would have been among the three most highly compensated but for not serving as
executive officers at the end of that year.

6

reporting companies, 9 emerging growth companies, 10 registered investment companies 11 or
foreign private issuers, 12 by its terms addresses only hedging by the named executive
officers. In providing their CD&A disclosure, however, some companies describe policies
that address hedging by employees and directors, as well as the named executive officers.
In addition, disclosures pursuant to other requirements may reveal when company
equity securities have been hedged:
•

For companies with a class of equity securities registered pursuant to Section 12
of the Exchange Act, 13 hedging transactions by officers and directors in
transactions involving one or more derivative securities – such as options,
warrants, convertible securities, security futures products, equity swaps, stock
appreciation rights and other securities that have an exercise or conversion price
related to a company equity security or derive their value from a company equity
security – are subject to reporting within two business days on Form 4, pursuant
to Exchange Act Section 16(a). 14

9

As defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2 [17 CFR 240.12b-2].

10

Section 101 of the Jumpstart Our Business Start-Ups Act (the “JOBS Act”) [Pub. L. No. 112-106, 126 Stat.
306 (2012)] codified the definition of “emerging growth company” in Section 3(a)(80) of the Exchange Act and
Section 2(a)(19) of the Securities Act.
11

Registered investment companies are investment companies registered under Section 8 of the Investment
Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”). 15 U.S.C. 80a et seq.
12
13

As defined in Rule 3b-4 [17 CFR 240.3b-4].
15 U.S.C. 78l.

14

15 U.S.C. 78p(a). For Section 16 purposes, the term “derivative securities” is defined in Exchange Act Rule
16a-1(c), which excludes rights with an exercise or conversion privilege at a price that is not fixed. Exchange
Act Rule 16a-1(d) defines “equity security of the issuer” as any equity security or derivative security relating to

7

•

Some hedging transactions, such as prepaid variable forward contracts, 15 may
involve pledges of the underlying company equity securities as collateral. Item
403(b) of Regulation S-K requires disclosure of the amount of company equity
securities beneficially owned by directors, director nominees and named
executive officers, 16 including the amount of shares that are pledged as security. 17

the issuer, whether or not issued by that issuer. See also Exchange Act Rule 16a-4, which provides that for
Section 16 purposes, both derivative securities and the underlying securities to which they relate shall be
deemed to be the same class of equity securities.
The Commission has clarified that Section 16 applies to equity swap and similar transactions that a Section 16
insider may use to hedge, and has addressed how these derivative securities transactions should be reported,
including specifically identifying them through the use of transaction code K. See Ownership Reports and
Trading by Officers, Directors and Principal Security Holders, Release No. 34-34514 (Aug. 10, 1994) [59 FR
42449] at Section III.G; and Ownership Reports and Trading by Officers, Directors and Principal Security
Holders, Release No. 34-37260 (May 31, 1996) [61 FR 30376] at Sections III.H and III.I. The Commission
also has clarified how transactions in securities futures should be reported. Commission Guidance on the
Application of Certain Provisions of the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rules
thereunder to Trading in Security Futures Products, Release No. 33-8107 (June 21, 2002) [67 FR 43234] at Q.
13.
15

A prepaid variable forward contract obligates the seller to sell, and the counterparty to purchase, a variable
number of shares at a specified future maturity date. The number of shares deliverable will depend on the per
share market price of the shares close to the maturity date. The contract specifies maximum and minimum
numbers of shares subject to delivery, and at the time the contract is entered into, the seller will pledge to the
counterparty the maximum number of shares. The Commission has indicated that forward sales contracts are
derivative securities transactions subject to Section 16(a) reporting. Mandated Electronic Filing and Website
Posting for Forms 3, 4 and 5, Release No. 33-8230 (May 7, 2003) [68 FR 25788], text at n. 42.
16

Item 403(b) of Regulation S-K [17 CFR 229.403(b)]. Disclosure is required on an individual basis as to
each director, nominee, and named executive officer, and on an aggregate basis as to executive officers of the
issuer as a group and must be provided in proxy statements, annual reports on Form 10-K [referenced in 17
CFR 240.310], and registration statements under the Securities Act and under the Exchange Act on Form 10.
17

The Commission’s rationale for requiring the disclosure of the amount of shares pledged as security was as
follows: “To the extent that shares owned by named executive officers, directors and director nominees are
used as collateral, these shares may be subject to material risk or contingencies that do not apply to other shares
beneficially owned by these persons.” Executive Compensation and Related Person Disclosure, Release No.
33-8732A (Aug. 29, 2006) [71 FR 53158] (the “2006 Executive Compensation Disclosure Release”) at Section
IV.

8

III.

DISCUSSION OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
We propose to implement Section 14(j) by adding new paragraph (i) to Item 407 of

Regulation S-K to require companies to disclose whether they permit employees and
directors to hedge their company’s securities. We believe that the disclosure called for by
Section 14(j) is primarily corporate governance-related because it requires a company to
provide in its proxy statement information giving shareholders insight into whether the
company has policies affecting how the equity holdings and equity compensation of all of a
company’s employees and directors may or may not align with shareholders’ interests.
Because Section 14(j) calls for disclosure about employees and directors, we believe that this
information raises broader issues with respect to the alignment of shareholders’ interests with
those of employees’ and directors’, and is more closely related to the Item 407 corporate
governance disclosure requirements than to Item 402 of Regulation S-K, which focuses only
on the compensation of named executive officers and directors. We propose to amend Item
407 in this manner to keep disclosure requirements relating to corporate governance matters
together in a single item in Regulation S-K. 18
The proposed amendments implement Section 14(j) in the following ways:

18

As a result, the proposed disclosure would not be subject to shareholder advisory votes to approve the
compensation of named executive officers, as disclosed pursuant to Item 402, that are required pursuant to
Section 14A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act and Rule 14a-21(a) [17 CFR 240.14a-21(a)]. We recognize, however,
that there is an executive compensation component of the proposed disclosure as it relates to existing CD&A
obligations. See Section III.D.3, below.

9

•

include within the scope of the proposed disclosure requirement other
transactions with economic consequences comparable to the financial
instruments specified in Section 14(j);

•

specify that the equity securities for which disclosure is required are only
equity securities of the company, any parent of the company, any subsidiary
of the company or any subsidiary of any parent of the company that are
registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act; 19

•

require the disclosure in any proxy statement on Schedule 14A or information
statement on Schedule 14C 20 with respect to the election of directors because
the information seems most relevant for shareholders voting or receiving
information about the election of directors; and

•
A.

clarify that the term “employee” includes officers of the company.
Transactions Subject to the Disclosure Requirement

Section 14(j) requires disclosure of whether any employee or director of the issuer, or
any designee of such employee or director, is permitted to purchase financial instruments
(including prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps, collars, and exchange funds 21)

19

15 U.S.C. 78l.

20

17 CFR 240.14c-101.

21

By covering “exchange funds,” we believe that Section 14(j) can be interpreted to cover transactions
involving dispositions or sales of securities. This is because an employee or director can acquire an interest in
an exchange fund only in exchange for a disposition to the exchange fund of equity securities held by the
employee or director. Whether the disposition to the exchange fund is a hedging transaction will depend on the
terms of the fund.

10

that are designed to hedge or offset any decrease in the market value of equity securities.
Our proposal would implement this requirement and would also require disclosure of
transactions with economic consequences comparable to the purchase of the specified
financial instruments.
As noted above, a Senate report indicated that Section 14(j) was added so that
shareholders would know whether executive officers are able “to effectively avoid
compensation restrictions that they hold stock long-term, so that they will receive their
compensation even in the case that their firm does not perform.” 22 Although Section 14(j)
expressly refers only to the purchase of financial instruments designed to hedge or offset any
decrease in the market value of equity securities, there are other transactions that could have
the same economic effects, the disclosure of which would be consistent with the purpose of
Section 14(j). 23 For example, a short sale can hedge the economic risk of ownership.
Similarly, selling a security future establishes a position that increases in value as the value
of the underlying equity security decreases, thereby establishing the downside price
protection that is the essence of the transactions contemplated by Section 14(j).
We are concerned that if the proposed disclosure requirement is not sufficiently
principles-based, the result would be incomplete disclosure as to the scope of hedging
transactions that an issuer permits. If, for example, a company discloses that it prohibits the
22

See Senate Report 111-176.

23

Section 14(j) refers to financial instruments that are designed to hedge or offset any decrease in market value.
The proposed amendments do not define the term “hedge,” as we believe the meaning of hedge is generally
understood and should be applied as a broad principle.

11

purchase of the types of financial instruments specifically listed in the statute, and does not
otherwise disclose whether it permits other types of hedging transactions that may have the
same economic effects as the purchase of the listed financial instruments, a shareholder
might assume that the company does not permit any hedging transactions at all, even though
that may not be the case. Similarly, failing to cover transactions with the same economic
effects as purchase of the listed financial instruments might cause employees and directors to
use those transactions that are not covered by the disclosure requirement. In order for the
disclosure to be complete and to avoid discouraging or promoting the use of particular
hedging transactions, our proposed amendment would require disclosure of whether an issuer
permits other types of transactions that have the same hedging effect as the purchase of those
instruments specifically identified in Section 14(j). Proposed Item 407(i) would require
disclosure of whether an employee, officer or director, or any of their designees, is permitted
to purchase financial instruments (including prepaid variable forward contracts, equity
swaps, collars, and exchange funds) or otherwise engage in transactions that are designed to
or have the effect of hedging or offsetting any decrease in the market value of equity
securities. The proposed amendment would therefore cover all transactions that establish
downside price protection – whether by purchasing or selling a security or derivative security
or otherwise, 24 consistent with the statutory purpose and providing more complete disclosure.

24

A pledge or loan of equity securities that does not involve a prepaid variable forward or similar transaction,
would not be considered a hedging transaction covered by the proposed disclosure rule even though such a
pledge or loan may be viewed as an “offer or sale” of a security under Securities Act Section 17(a) [15 U.S.C.
§77q(a)]. See Rubin v. United States, 449 U.S. 424 (1981). This is because such stand-alone pledges and loans

12

Like the existing CD&A disclosure item, which applies to company policies regarding
hedging the economic risk of named executive officers’ ownership of the company’s
securities, 25 the scope of the proposed amendment is not limited to any particular types of
hedging transactions.
A proposed instruction would clarify that the company must disclose which
categories of transactions it permits and which categories of transactions it prohibits. 26
Disclosure of both the categories prohibited and those permitted conveys a complete
understanding of the scope of hedging at the company. However, we recognize that where,
for example, a company only prohibits specified hedging transactions, potentially limitless
disclosure of each specific category otherwise permitted may not be meaningful.
Accordingly, if a company specifically prohibits certain hedging transactions, it would
disclose the categories of transactions it specifically prohibits, and could, if true, disclose that
it permits all other hedging transactions in lieu of listing all of the specific categories that are
permitted. For example, a company could disclose that it prohibits prepaid variable forward
contracts, but permits all other hedging transactions. Conversely, where a company specifies
only the hedging transactions that it permits, in addition to disclosing the particular
categories of transactions permitted, it may, if true, disclose that it prohibits all other hedging
transactions in lieu of listing all of the specific categories that are prohibited. For example, a
generally contemplate the return of the pledged or borrowed securities to the employee, with no consequent
change in the employee’s economic risk in ownership of the securities.
25
26

Item 402(b)(2)(xiii) of Regulation S-K, discussed in Section II.D, below.
Proposed Instruction 3 to Item 407(i).

13

company could disclose that it permits exchange fund transactions, but prohibits all other
hedging transactions. If a company does not permit any hedging transactions, or permits all
hedging transactions, it should so state and would not need to describe them by category. An
additional instruction would require a company that permits hedging transactions to disclose
sufficient detail to explain the scope of such permitted transactions. 27 For example, a
company that permits hedging of equity securities that have been held for a specified period
of time would need to disclose the period of time the securities must have been held.
If a company permits some, but not all, of the categories of persons covered by the
proposed amendment to engage in hedging transactions, the company would disclose both
the categories of persons who are permitted to hedge and those who are not. 28 For example,
a company might disclose that it prohibits all hedging transactions by executive officers and
directors, but does not restrict hedging transactions by other employees. Disclosing both
categories of transactions and persons would provide investors a more complete
understanding of the persons permitted to engage in hedging transactions, if any, and the
types of hedging transactions permitted by the company.
B.

Specifying the Term “Equity Securities”

We are proposing an instruction to specify that the term “equity securities,” as used in
proposed Item 407(i), would mean any equity securities (as defined in Exchange Act Section

27

Proposed Instruction 4 to Item 407(i).

28

Proposed Instruction 2 to Item 407(i).

14

3(a)(11) 29 and Exchange Act Rule 3a11-1) 30 issued by the company, any parent of the
company, any subsidiary of the company or any subsidiary of any parent of the company that
are registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. 31 As proposed, the disclosure
requirement would apply to the equity securities issued by the company and its parents,
subsidiaries or subsidiaries of the company’s parents that are registered on a national
securities exchange 32 or registered under Exchange Act Section 12(g). 33 We believe that the
equity securities registered under Exchange Act Section 12 encompass the securities that are
more likely to be readily traded, and more easily hedged. Because the Exchange Act and
Exchanges Act Rules definitions of “equity security” do not specify the issuer, and Section
14(j) does not itself do so, without an instruction that narrows the scope, the term “equity
securities” could be interpreted to include the equity securities of any company that are held
directly or indirectly by an employee or director.

29

15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(11). Exchange Act Section 3(a)(11) defines “equity security” as any stock or similar
security; or any security future on any such security; or any security convertible, with or without consideration,
into such a security, or carrying any warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase such a security; or any such
warrant or right; or any other security which the Commission shall deem to be of similar nature and consider
necessary or appropriate, by such rules and regulations as it may prescribe in the public interest or for the
protection of investors, to treat as an equity security.
30

17 CFR 240.3a11-1. Exchange Act Rule 3a11-1 defines “equity security” to include any stock or similar
security, certificate of interest or participation in any profit sharing agreement, preorganization certificate or
subscription, transferable share, voting trust certificate or certificate of deposit for an equity security, limited
partnership interest, interest in a joint venture, or certificate of interest in a business trust; any security future on
any such security; or any security convertible, with or without consideration into such a security, or carrying
any warrant or right to subscribe to or purchase such a security; or any such warrant or right; or any put, call,
straddle, or other option or privilege of buying such a security from or selling such a security to another without
being bound to do so.

31

15 U.S.C. 78l; Proposed Instruction 1 to Item 407(i).

32

15 U.S.C. 78l(b).

33

15 U.S.C. 78l(g).

15

The proposed instruction would specify the scope of covered equity securities for
both paragraphs (1) (compensatory equity securities grants) and (2) (other equity securities
holdings) of proposed Item 407(i). Disclosure of whether a director or employee is permitted
to hedge equity securities granted as compensation or otherwise held from whatever source
acquired will more fully inform shareholders whether employees and directors are able to
engage in transactions that reduce the alignment of their interests with the economic interests
of other shareholders of the company and any affiliated company in which the employees or
directors might have an interest. Shareholders would receive the Item 407(i) disclosure
because they hold equity securities of the company and action is to be taken with respect to
the election of directors for that company. The disclosure would provide additional
information on whether the company has policies affecting the alignment of incentives for
employees and directors of the company whose securities they hold. We therefore believe
that disclosure about whether employees and directors are permitted to hedge equity
securities issued by the company, its parents, subsidiaries or subsidiaries of the company’s
parents that are registered under Exchange Act Section 12 would be most relevant when
providing information about the election of directors. We believe that, in certain instances, 34
companies may grant equity securities of affiliated companies to their employees or directors
that are intended to achieve similar incentive alignment as grants in the company’s equity
securities. In these instances, we believe it would be relevant for shareholders to know

34

Examples may include, but are not limited to, where a company reorganizes to create a publicly-traded
subsidiary.

16

whether such persons are permitted to mitigate or avoid the risks associated with long-term
ownership of these securities.
C. Employees and Directors Subject to the Proposed Disclosure Requirement
Section 14(j) covers hedging transactions conducted by any employee or member of
the board of directors or any of their designees. Consistent with that mandate, we believe the
term “employee” should be interpreted to include everyone employed by an issuer, including
its officers. We believe it is just as relevant for shareholders to know if officers are allowed
to effectively avoid restrictions on long-term compensation as it is for directors and other
employees of the company. 35 Accordingly, we propose to implement Section 14(j) by
adding the parenthetical “(including officers)” after the term “employees” in the language of
the proposed disclosure requirement. 36 In sum, the proposed amendment uses the language
“any employees (including officers) or directors of the registrant, or any of their designees”
in describing the persons covered by the disclosure requirement. 37
Request for Comment
1. Should the disclosure required by Section 14(j) be implemented by amending
the corporate governance disclosures required by Item 407, as proposed?

35

See Senate Report 111-176.

36

The parenthetical “(including officers)” in proposed Item 407(i) is intended to include officers employed by
an issuer and avoid possible confusion with Exchange Act Rule 12b-2 [17 CFR 240.12b-2], which states that
the term “employee” does not include a director, trustee, or officer.
37

Section 14(j) refers to “designee[s]” of employees and directors. Under the proposed disclosure requirement,
whether someone is a “designee” would be determined by a company based on the particular facts and
circumstances.

17

Alternatively, should it be implemented by amending the Item 402 executive
compensation disclosure requirements? Are there advantages or
disadvantages to requiring these disclosures under Item 402? If so, please
explain why.
2. Should the scope of the proposed Item 407(i) disclosure requirement cover
transactions that are not expressly listed in Exchange Act Section 14(j) but
have economic consequences comparable to the purchase of the financial
instruments specifically identified in Section 14(j), as proposed? If not, why
not?
3. Should the scope of transactions covered by proposed Item 407(i) be
clarified? We are of the view that there is a meaningful distinction between
an index that includes a broad range of equity securities, one component of
which is company equity securities, and a financial instrument, even one
nominally based on a broad index, designed to or having the effect of hedging
the economic exposure to company equity securities. Should we clarify the
application of Item 407(i) to account for this situation? If so, how? For
example, if an issuer prohibited hedging generally, but permitted the purchase
of broad-based indices, should we specify that the issuer could nonetheless
disclose that it prohibits all hedging transactions? Should the rule explicitly
distinguish between instruments that provide exposure to a broad range of
issuers or securities and those that are designed to hedge particular securities
18

or have that effect? Would a principles-based or numerical threshold
approach be most helpful in this regard? If not, what other clarification
should be provided?
4. If a company prohibits some, but not all, of the categories of transactions
described in the proposed amendment, in order to fully describe what hedging
transactions are permitted and by whom, is it necessary to require disclosure,
as proposed, of both the categories of transactions that are permitted and the
categories of transactions that are prohibited? If not, please explain why not.
Does proposed Instruction 3 to Item 407(i) provide a way for companies that
permit or prohibit only certain covered transactions to disclose this
information in a clear and effective manner? Alternatively, should the
company simply be required to describe its policy, if any, without further
elaboration?
5. A company that permits hedging transactions would be required to disclose
sufficient detail to explain the scope of such permitted transactions. For
example, a company may permit hedging transactions only if pre-approved, or
only after the company’s stock ownership guidelines have been met. Should
proposed Instruction 4 be more specific about the types of details, such as a
pre-approval requirement, that the company must disclose?
6. Does our proposal to define the term “equity securities” as equity securities of
the company or any of its parents, subsidiaries or subsidiaries of its parents
19

that are registered under Exchange Act Section 12 appropriately capture the
disclosure that shareholders would find useful? Should the Commission limit
the term “equity securities” to only equity securities of the company? If so,
please explain why and the costs and benefits that would result. How often
are directors and employees compensated through equity securities of an
affiliated company that are not registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange
Act? If the definition of equity securities includes only equity securities
registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, would that affect either
compensation structure or corporate structure? Do companies typically have
policies addressing hedging of equity securities of their parents, subsidiaries
or subsidiaries of their parents? What would be the costs and benefits of
disclosing whether hedging the equity securities of these affiliates is permitted
or prohibited? Would any on-going compliance efforts be different? If so,
please explain why and the costs and benefits that would result.
7. Should the proposed definition be broadened to include equity securities that
are not registered under Exchange Act Section 12 or narrowed to only include
equity securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act? If so,
explain why and the costs and benefits that would result. Alternatively,
should the proposed definition be revised to exclude equity securities that do
not trade in an established public market? If so, how would “established
public market” be defined? To the extent the amendment applies to equity
20

securities that do not trade on an established public market, should we provide
guidance about how to interpret “market value” for purposes of the proposed
amendment? In either case, please explain why, and what costs and benefits
would result from the recommended change.
8. Should we define “parent” and “subsidiary” specifically for purposes of this
disclosure requirement? The definition of “parent” of a person in the
Exchange Act Rules is an affiliate controlling such person directly, or
indirectly through one or more intermediaries. 38 Similarly, the Exchange Act
Rules definition of “subsidiary” of a person is an affiliate controlled by such
person directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries. 39 Will these
definitions, in the context of hedging disclosure, present any implementation
challenges in determining what needs to be disclosed? Should we consider an
alternative term, or alternative definition of “parent” for this disclosure
requirement, such as an affiliate that owns a majority of the voting securities
in the company? Similarly, with respect to subsidiaries, should we consider an
alternative term, or alternative definition of “subsidiary” for this disclosure
requirement, such as a majority-owned subsidiary, wholly-owned subsidiary,
consolidated subsidiary or significant subsidiary? In each case, please

38

Exchange Act Rule 12b-2 [17 CFR 240.12b-2].

39

Exchange Act Rule 12b-2 [17 CFR 240.12b-2].

21

explain why, and what costs and benefits would result from the recommended
change.
9. Section 14(j) does not define the circumstances in which equity securities are
“held, directly or indirectly” by an employee or director. Is the concept of
“held, directly or indirectly” unclear, such that we should provide more
certainty about what is meant by the phrase? If so, how should we clarify it?
Section 14(j) also does not define who is a “designee,” nor is this term
otherwise defined in the rules under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act.
One commenter has recommended that the Commission define the term
“designee.” 40 Should the proposed amendment include an instruction
clarifying who is a “designee”? If so, please explain how this term should be
defined, and the costs and benefits that would result.
10. Section 14(j) is directed to “any employee” and we interpret that to mean
anyone employed by the issuer. Should we limit the definition of “employee”
to the subset of employees that participate in making or shaping key operating
or strategic decisions that influence the company’s stock price? 41 Why or
why not? If so, how would that distinction be defined for practical purposes?

40

See Letter from Compensia, Inc. (Oct. 4, 2010). To facilitate public input on the Act, the Commission has
provided a series of email links, organized by topic, on its website at
http://www.sec.gov/spotlight/regreformcomments.shtml. The public comments we have received on Section
955 of the Act are available on our website at http://www.sec.gov/comments/df-title-ix/executivecompensation/executive-compensation.shtml.
41

See Section IV.C.1.

22

Alternatively, should we add an express materiality condition to the definition,
as is the case under CD&A, to permit each issuer to determine whether
disclosure about all its employees would be material information for its
investors? Why or why not?
11. Should the amendment define “hedge”? If so, what concepts other than the
statutory reference to “offset[ting] any decrease in the market value of equity
securities” would be necessary to define this term?
12. One commenter has recommended that the Commission “should not only
require disclosure of whether hedging is permitted, but should also require
disclosure of any hedging that has occurred – both in promptly filed Form 4
filings and in the annual proxy statement.” 42 Should the Commission require
such disclosure in the final rule for those already subject to Form 4 reporting
requirements?
D.

Implementation
1. Manner and Location of Disclosure

Section 14(j) calls for disclosure in any proxy or consent solicitation material for an
annual meeting of the shareholders. Shareholder annual meetings are typically the venue in
which directors are elected. 43 Although the language of Section 14(j) refers to disclosure in

42

See letter from Brian Foley & Company, Inc. (Sept. 22, 2010).

43

The Commission has previously recognized that directors ordinarily are elected at annual meetings. See,
e.g., Rule 14a-6(a) [17 CFR 240.14a-6(a)], which acknowledges that registrants soliciting proxies in the context
of an election of directors at an annual meeting may be eligible to rely on the exclusion from the requirement to

23

any proxy or consent solicitation material for an annual meeting of the shareholders, this
language, construed strictly, would result in the disclosure appearing in different instances
than we currently require other corporate governance related disclosure. In particular, under
our current rules, if a company solicits proxies 44 with respect to the election of directors, its
proxy statement must include specified corporate governance information required by Item
407 of Regulation S-K, whether or not the election takes place at an annual meeting. 45 We
believe that Item 407(i) disclosure would be relevant information for shareholders evaluating
the governance practices of the company and the election of directors. By providing the
disclosure in a proxy statement if action is to be taken with respect to the election of
directors, shareholders will be able to consider the proposed disclosure at the same time as

file a proxy statement in preliminary form. Rule 14a-3(b) [17 CFR 240.14a-3(b)] requires proxy statements
used in connection with the election of directors at an annual meeting to be preceded or accompanied by an
annual report containing audited financial statements. The requirement for registrants to hold an annual
meeting at which directors are to be elected, however, is imposed by a source of legal authority other than the
federal securities laws. In Delaware, for example, where more than 50% of the publicly traded issuers are
incorporated according to the State of Delaware’s official website, Delaware General Corporation Law, Section
211(b) is viewed as requiring an annual meeting for the election of directors. See Delaware Law of
Corporations & Business Organizations, Third Edition by R. Franklin Balotti, Jesse A. Finkelstein at §7.1, Folk
on the Delaware General Corporate Law, 2013 Edition by Edward P. Welch, Andrew J. Turezyn, and Robert S.
Saunders at § 211.2, and the text of DGCL Section 211(b), which reads in relevant part, “unless directors are
elected by written consent in lieu of an annual meeting as permitted by this subsection, an annual meeting of
stockholders shall be held for the election of directors on a date and at a time designated by or in the manner
provided in the bylaws.” See also Corporations and Other Business Associations, Seventh Edition by Charles
R.T. O’Kelley and Robert B. Thompson at page 167 (explaining that the “paramount shareholder function is the
election of directors” and that “[m]ost corporation codes protect this right by specifying immutably that
directors shall be elected at an annually held meeting of shareholders.”), California Corporations Code, Section
600(b), and 1984 Model Business Corporation Act (as amended through 2006), Section 7.01(a) (each requiring
an annual meeting of shareholders for the election of directors).
44

Rule 14a-1(f) [17 CFR 240.14a-1(f)] defines the term “proxy” to include every proxy, consent or
authorization within the meaning of Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act. A solicitation of consents therefore
constitutes a solicitation of proxies subject to Section 14(a) and Regulation 14A.
45

See Items 7(b)-(d) and 8(a) of Schedule 14A.

24

they are considering the company’s other corporate governance disclosures and voting for the
election of directors, without regard to whether at an annual or special meeting of
shareholders or in connection with an action authorized by written consent. 46 We therefore
propose to implement Section 14(j) by amending Items 7 and 22 of Schedule 14A to call for
new Item 407(i) information to be provided if action is to be taken with respect to the
election of directors. In addition to including the new disclosure requirement, the proposal
would amend Item 7 of Schedule 14A to streamline its current provisions by more succinctly
cross-referencing disclosure Items. 47
The information required under proposed Item 407(i) would need to be included in
proxy or consent solicitation materials and information statements with respect to the election
of directors. Section 14(j) specifically calls for the disclosure to be made in the proxy
solicitation materials, and we believe the information would be most relevant to shareholders
if action is to be taken with respect to the election of directors. We therefore do not propose
to require Item 407(i) disclosure in Securities Act or Exchange Act registration statements or
in the Form 10-K Part III Item 407 disclosure, 48 even if that disclosure is incorporated by
reference from the company’s definitive proxy statement or information statement filed with
46

We note that an annual meeting, the meeting at which companies generally provide for the election of
directors, could theoretically not include an election of directors. For reasons explained above, an annual
meeting ordinarily involves an election of directors. In the unlikely event that a company is not conducting a
solicitation for the election of directors but is otherwise soliciting proxies at an annual meeting, the proposed
amendment would not require the proposed disclosure in the proxy statement.
47

Proposed amended Item 7(b) and Instruction to Item 7 of Schedule 14A.

48

This approach is consistent with the disclosure requirements for registration statements under the Securities
Act and for annual reports on Form 10-K, which include only selected provisions of Item 407. See Item 11(l)
and 11(o) on Form S-1 and Items 10, 11 and 13 of Form 10-K.

25

the Commission not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by the Form
10-K. 49
2. Disclosure on Schedule 14C
The statutory language of Section 14(j) expressly calls for proxy or consent
solicitation materials for an annual meeting of the shareholders of the issuer to include the
disclosure contemplated by the proposed amendments. These solicitation materials are
required by our proxy rules to be filed under cover of Schedule 14A. 50 As provided in Item 1
of Schedule 14C, however, an information statement filed on Schedule 14C must include the
information called for by all of the items of Schedule 14A to the extent each item would be
applicable to any matter to be acted upon at a meeting if proxies were to be solicited, with
only limited exceptions. 51 An information statement filed on Schedule 14C in connection
with an election of directors therefore already is required to include the information required
49

As permitted by General Instruction G to Form 10-K. Proposed Instruction 5 to Item 407(i) would provide
that information disclosed pursuant to Item 407(i) would not be deemed incorporated by reference into any
filing under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or the Investment Company Act. As proposed, the disclosure
also would not be subject to forward incorporation by reference under Item 12(b) of Securities Act Form S-3
[17 CFR 239.13].
50

As stated above, Exchange Act Rule 14a-1(f) [17 CFR 240.14a-1(f)] defines the term “proxy” to include
every proxy, consent or authorization within the meaning of section 14(a) of the [Exchange] Act. Exchange Act
Rule 14a-3(a) [17 CFR 240.14a-3(a)] prohibits any proxy solicitation unless each person solicited is currently or
has been previously furnished with a publicly-filed preliminary or definitive proxy statement containing the
information specified in Schedule 14A [17 CFR 240.14a-101], and Exchange Act Rule 14a-6(m) [17 CFR
240.14a-6(m) requires proxy materials to be filed under cover of Schedule 14A.
51

Specifically, Item 1 of Schedule 14C permits the exclusion of information called for by Schedule 14A Items
1(c) (Rule 14a-5(e) information re shareholder proposals), 2 (revocability of proxy), 4 (persons making the
solicitation), and 5 (interest of certain persons in matters to be acted upon). Other Items of Schedule 14C
prescribe the information to be provided with regard to such of these topics that are relevant to information
statements. Specifically, Item 3 addresses the interest of certain persons in or opposition to matters to be acted
upon, and Item 4 addresses proposals by security holders. In addition, Notes A, C, D and E to Schedule 14A
are applicable to Schedule 14C [17 CFR 240.14c-101].

26

by Item 7 of Schedule 14A. Absent an amendment to Schedule 14C to exclude proposed
Item 407(i) from the requirements for the information statement, the disclosure contemplated
by the amendments would be required in Schedule 14C pursuant to existing Item 1 of
Schedule 14C.
We are not proposing to exclude Item 407(i) disclosure from Schedule 14C. 52
Applying the proposed disclosure obligation to Schedule 14C filings would have the effect of
expanding the requirement to comply with Item 407(i) to companies that do not solicit
proxies from any or all security holders but are otherwise authorized by security holders to
take an action with respect to the election of directors.
We believe that doing so would retain consistency in the corporate governance
disclosure provided in proxy statements and information statements with respect to the
election of directors. Exchange Act Section 14(c) was enacted to apply to companies not
soliciting proxies or consents from some or all holders of a class of securities registered
under Section 12 of the Exchange Act entitled to vote at a meeting or authorize a corporate
action by execution of a written consent. 53 It creates disclosure obligations for a company

52

Because our proposal would not add a new exclusion for information called for by the proposed amendment
to Item 7 of Schedule 14A, the effect of the proposal will be to require Item 407(i) disclosure in Schedule 14C.
53

Section 14(c) of the Exchange Act was enacted to “reinforce [ ] fundamental disclosure principles [for
companies] subject to the proxy rules which did not solicit proxies…” By enacting Section 14(c), Congress was
advised that these companies “would be required to furnish shareholders with information equivalent to that
contained in a proxy statement….[and that such legislation was needed] [b]ecause evasion of the disclosures
required by the proxy rules is made possible by the simple device of not soliciting proxies…” Statement of
William L. Cary, Chairman, Securities and Exchange Commission, Part I. K. Other Amendments Proposed by
S. 1642, Hearings before a Subcommittee of the Committee on Banking and Currency for the U.S. Senate,
Eighty-Eighth Congress, First Session on S. 1642, June 18-21 and 24-25, 1963.

27

that chooses not to, or otherwise does not, solicit proxies, consents, or other authorizations
from some or all of its security holders entitled to vote. An example of when such a situation
could occur is in the case of a controlled company 54 not listed on the New York Stock
Exchange, NYSE Market or NASDAQ. In instances where management and/or a
shareholder affiliate may control sufficient shares to assure a quorum and a favorable voting
outcome, as in the case of a majority-owned subsidiary, or where a solicitation of proxies,
consents or authorization is made of only certain security holders in connection with an
election of directors, Section 14(c) would operate to ensure that security holders not solicited
would receive disclosure substantially equivalent to that which would have been included in
a proxy statement had a solicitation of all security holders been made. 55 In light of this
purpose, we believe requiring Item 407(i) disclosure in information statements filed pursuant

54

A controlled company is generally understood to be a company in which more than 50% of the voting power
is held by an individual, a group or another issuer. See e.g., Exchange Act Section 10C(g)(2) [15 U.S.C.
78jC(g)(2)].
55

At the time Section 14(c) was being considered by Congress as an amendment to the Exchange Act, the
Securities and Exchange Commission provided an official statement that reported findings associated with a
study that examined the proxy solicitation practices of 556 industrial and other companies. “Twenty-nine
percent of these companies did not solicit proxies and 24 percent did not even send shareholders a notice of
meeting.” Statement of the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect to Proposed Amendments to
Sections 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 20(c), and 32(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 4(1) of the
Securities Act of 1933, at 2. Existing Disclosures by Over-the-Counter Companies, Hearings before a
Subcommittee of the Committee on Banking and Currency for the U.S. Senate, Eighty-Eighth Congress, First
Session on S. 1642, June 18-21 and 24-25, 1963. Simply extending the coverage of the proxy rules to reach
over-the-counter issuers was not viewed as a solution, and was believed to have been a decision that would have
accentuated the problem of non-solicitation “because of management’s relatively larger holdings.” Statement of
William L. Cary, Chairman, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, cited in n. [51] above.

28

to Section 14(c) furthers the regulatory objective of Section 14(j) of the Exchange Act and would
mitigate the regulatory disparity that otherwise might result. 56

3.

Relationship to Existing CD&A Obligations

One of the non-exclusive examples currently listed in the Item 402(b) requirement for
CD&A calls, in part, for disclosure of any registrant policies regarding hedging the economic
risk of company securities ownership, 57 to the extent material. CD&A applies only to named
executive officers and is part of the Item 402 executive compensation disclosure that is
required in Securities Act and Exchange Act registration statements, and Exchange Act
annual reports on Form 10-K, as well as proxy and information statements relating to the
election of directors. 58 Smaller reporting companies, emerging growth companies, registered

56

Of the approximately 6845 operating companies with at least one class of securities registered under Section
12 of the Exchange Act, 4018 have a class of securities listed on an exchange. Based on our review of and
experience with NASDAQ, the New York Stock Exchange or NYSE Market, collectively referred to here as
primary market exchanges, companies with a class of common or voting preferred stock (or their equivalents)
listed on these exchanges are generally required to solicit proxies from shareholders for all meetings of
shareholders, including those to elect directors. See, e.g., NYSE Listed Company Manual Section 402.04, and
NASDAQ Rule IM-5620 – Meetings of Shareholders or Partners. Operating companies with a class of voting
stock listed on a primary exchange that comply with the listing exchange’s requirements, therefore, will be
providing the proposed disclosure in proposed amended Item 7 of Schedule 14A and proposed Item 407(i) of
Regulation S-K for each election of directors. By contrast, the approximately 2827 non-exchange listed
companies with a class of securities registered under Section 12 may not be subject to compulsory requirements
analogous to the primary market exchange rules that impose an affirmative obligation to solicit
shareholders. Consequently, these non-exchange listed companies, if not subject to a compulsory requirement
to solicit proxies, could avoid the proposed disclosures if the new requirement were limited to only companies
soliciting proxies or consents pursuant to Section 14(a), especially given that companies with a class of
securities registered only under Exchange Act Section 12(g) may be able to effectuate a corporate action (as
referenced in Exchange Act Rule 14c-2) without soliciting security holder approval and thus would need only
comply with Section 14(c) and Regulation 14C.
57

Item 402(b)(2)(xiii) of Regulation S-K.

58

As required by Item 8 of Schedule14A.

29

investment companies and foreign private issuers, however, are not required to provide
CD&A disclosure.
By requiring proxy statement disclosure of whether employees generally are
permitted to hedge equity securities that they receive as compensation or otherwise hold, the
disclosure mandated by Section 14(j) includes within its scope hedging policies applicable to
named executive officers. 59 To reduce potentially duplicative disclosure in proxy and
information statements, we propose to amend Item 402(b) of Regulation S-K to add an
instruction providing that a company may satisfy its CD&A obligation to disclose material
policies on hedging by named executive officers by cross referencing the information
disclosed pursuant to proposed Item 407(i) to the extent that the information disclosed there
satisfies this CD&A disclosure requirement. 60 This instruction, like the Item 407(i)
disclosure requirement, would apply to a company’s proxy statement or information
statement with respect to the election of directors. We believe that amending Item 402(b) to
add this instruction will, in certain circumstances, make it easier for companies that are
subject to both Item 407(i) and Item 402(b) to prepare their proxy and information statements
by avoiding the potential for duplicative disclosure. 61 In addition, we believe that locating all

59

See Section III, above.

60

Proposed Instruction 6 to Item 402(b).

61

Exchange Act Rule 14a-21(a) [17 CFR 240.14a-21(a)] provides that shareholder advisory say-on-pay votes
apply to executive compensation disclosure pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K, which includes CD&A.
Because Item 407(i) disclosure will not be subject to these votes except to the extent made part of CD&A
pursuant to the proposed cross-reference instruction, the proposal will not effect any change in the scope of
disclosure currently subject to say-on-pay votes. We also note that the cross-reference is optional and issuers

30

the responsive disclosure in one place in the proxy or information statement will make it
easier for investors to find.
4. Issuers Subject to the Proposed Amendments
In proposing amendments to implement Section 14(j), we have considered whether
certain categories of issuers should be exempted from the proposed Item 407(i) disclosure
requirements, or, alternatively, whether they should be subject to a delayed implementation
schedule. 62 In making these determinations, we have been guided by what we understand to
be the statutory purpose behind Section 14(j), namely, to provide transparency to
shareholders, if action is to be taken with respect to the election of directors, about whether
employees or directors are permitted to engage in transactions that mitigate or avoid the
incentive alignment associated with equity ownership.
a.

Registered Investment Companies

We are proposing to require closed-end investment companies that have shares that
are listed and registered on a national securities exchange (“listed closed-end funds”) to
provide the proposed disclosure. Investment companies registered under the Investment
Company Act of 1940 (“funds” or “registered investment companies”) that are not listed

may, if they prefer, avoid making the Item 407(i) disclosure part of CD&A by not cross-referencing the
disclosure.
62

Section 36(a) of the Exchange Act permits the Commission, by rule, regulation, or order, to conditionally or
unconditionally exempt any person security, or transaction, or any class or classes of persons, securities, or
transactions, from any provision or provisions of this title or of any rule or regulation thereunder, to the extent
that such exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of
investors.

31

closed-end funds would be excluded from these requirements, as discussed in more detail
below. 63
Funds generally have a management structure and regulatory regime that differs in
various respects from issuers that are operating companies, which we believe makes the
proposed disclosure less useful for investors in funds that are not listed closed-end funds.
Nearly all funds, unlike other issuers, are externally managed and have few, if any,
employees who are compensated by the fund. 64 Rather, personnel who operate the fund and
manage its portfolio generally are employed and compensated by the fund’s investment
adviser. 65 Although fund directors may hold shares of the funds they serve, 66 fund
compensation practices can be distinguished from those of operating companies. We believe
that the granting of shares as a component of incentive-based compensation is uncommon
(and in some cases is prohibited 67) for funds. Concerns about avoiding restrictions on long-

63

Business development companies are a category of closed-end investment company that are not registered
under the Investment Company Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48) and 80a-53-64]. As proposed, business
development companies would be treated in the same manner as all issuers (other than certain funds as
discussed in this section) and therefore would be subject to the requirements of proposed Item 407(i). We
believe that this would be consistent with the Commission’s treatment of business development companies
regarding other disclosure requirements. See the 2006 Executive Compensation Disclosure Release, at Section
II.D.3.
64

Some funds do have employees, who might also hold fund shares. See also footnote 36 and accompanying
text (explaining that the parenthetical “(including officers)” in proposed Item 407(i) is intended to include
officers employed by an issuer).
65

Funds also typically will contract with other service providers in addition to the investment adviser.

66

See Saitz, Greg, “Here Are Two Choices: Buy Fund Shares or Buy Fund Shares,” July 30, 2013, available at
http://www.boardiq.com/c/556021/60971/here_choices_fund_shares_fund_shares.
67

Registered open-end and closed-end investment companies are generally prohibited from issuing their
securities for services. See Sections 22(g) (open-end funds) and 23(a) (closed-end funds) of the Investment
Company Act. Recognizing that “effective fund governance can be enhanced when funds align the interests of

32

term compensation, which we understand to be one of the reasons Congress mandated this
disclosure, may therefore be less likely to be raised with respect to funds.
In addition, most funds, other than listed closed-end funds as discussed below, also
are generally not required to hold annual meetings of shareholders. 68 Exchange-traded funds
(“ETFs”), although traded on an exchange, also do not generally hold annual meetings of
shareholders, and some ETFs do not have boards of directors. 69
Open-end funds differ from operating companies in the way that their shares are
purchased and sold. For example, mutual funds sell shares that are redeemable, meaning
their directors with the interests of their shareholders,” our staff has provided guidance concerning the
circumstances under which funds may compensate fund directors with fund shares consistent with sections
22(g) and 23(a). See Interpretive Matters Concerning Independent Directors of Investment Companies,
Investment Company Act Release No. 24083 (Oct. 14, 1999). With respect to registered closed-end funds,
some of which would be subject to the proposed amendments, our staff stated that “[c]losed-end funds also may
wish to institute policies that encourage or require their directors to use the compensation that they receive from
the funds to purchase fund shares in the secondary market on the same basis as other fund shareholders.” See
id. at n.73. The staff also stated that it “would not recommend enforcement action to the Commission under
Section 23(a) if closed-end funds directly compensate their directors with fund shares, provided that the
directors’ services are assigned a fixed dollar value prior to the time that the compensation is payable,” while
noting that “any closed-end fund that compensates its directors by issuing fund shares would generally be
required to issue those shares at net asset value, even if the shares are trading at a discount to their net asset
value.” See id. at n.74.
68

The requirement to hold an annual meeting of shareholders at which directors are to be elected generally is
imposed by a source of authority other than the federal securities laws. See footnote 43 above. Funds are
typically organized under state law as a form of trust or corporation that is not required to hold an annual
meeting. See Robert A. Robertson, Fund Governance: Legal Duties of Investment Company Directors § 2.6[5]. Funds may, however, hold shareholder meetings from time to time under certain circumstances, including
where less than a majority of the directors of the fund were elected by the holders of the fund’s outstanding
voting securities. See Section 16(a) of the Investment Company Act. See also footnote 73 and accompanying
text.
69

ETFs are organized either as open-end funds or unit investment trusts (“UITs”). A UIT does not have a board
of directors, corporate officers, or an investment adviser to render advice during the life of the trust, and does
not actively trade its investment portfolio. See Section 4(2) of the Investment Company Act (“Unit investment
trust” means an investment company which (A) is organized under a trust indenture, contract of custodianship
or agency, or similar instrument, (B) does not have a board of directors, and (C) issues only redeemable
securities, each of which represents an undivided interest in a unit of specified securities, but does not include a
voting trust.”).

33

generally that shareholders are able to present the shares to the fund at the shareholder’s
discretion and receive the net asset value (“NAV”) per share determined at the end of each
day. 70 For funds like mutual funds whose shares do not trade on an exchange, it may be less
efficient or not possible to engage in certain hedging transactions with respect to the fund’s
shares. And although ETF shares trade on exchanges, they often trade on the secondary
market at prices close to the NAV of the shares, rather than at discounts or premiums to
NAV.
Based on these considerations, the proposed amendments would not require funds,
other than listed closed-end funds, to provide the proposed disclosure.
We are, however, proposing to require listed closed-end funds to provide Item 407(i)
disclosure. Although listed closed-end funds are similar to other funds in certain respects,
including with respect to their management structure and regulatory regime, there are several
features of listed closed-end funds that may make requiring the Item 407(i) disclosure
appropriate. Shares of listed closed-end funds, unlike mutual fund shares, trade at negotiated
market prices on a national securities exchange and are not redeemable from the funds. The
shares thus may, and often do, trade at a “discount,” or a price below the NAV per share. 71
Requiring listed closed-end funds to provide the proposed disclosure would allow
shareholders to know if a listed closed-end fund permits its directors and employees (if any)
70

The term “redeemable,” as used with respect to fund shares, refers to shares that are redeemable at the
discretion of the investor holding the shares. See Section 2(a)(32) of the Investment Company Act (defining the
term “redeemable security”). Closed-end fund shares, in contrast, generally are not redeemable, and these
shares trade at negotiated market prices, including on national securities exchanges.
71

Based on staff review of information available from Morningstar Direct and filings with the Commission.

34

to hedge the value of the fund’s securities held by these persons and thus whether they, like
the fund’s other shareholders, would receive that discounted price upon a sale of the shares
without an offset from any hedging transactions. This information may be important to the
voting decision of an investor when evaluating the extent to which a fund director or
employee’s interest is aligned with that of the fund’s other shareholders, including in
considering whether the director or employee may be more or less incentivized as a result of
holding shares in the fund to seek to decrease the discount. It also may be more efficient to
engage in certain hedging transactions with respect to shares of a listed closed-end fund as
compared to certain other types of funds. Market participants can and do sell these types of
fund shares short, for example. 72 Hedging transactions might thus be more likely with
respect to shares of listed closed-end funds, and thus potentially of greater interest to those
funds’ shareholders.
Finally, unlike other types of funds as discussed above, listed closed-end funds
generally are required to hold annual meetings of shareholders. 73 Listed closed-end funds
thus more closely resemble operating companies that would be subject to the proposed
disclosure requirements in this respect. 74 We also note that officers and directors of listed

72

Based on staff review of market data available from the Bloomberg Professional service.

73

See, e.g., Section 302.00 of the New York Stock Exchange’s Corporate Governance Standards (“Listed
companies are required to hold an annual shareholders’ meeting during each fiscal year.”).
74

Listed closed-end funds also are similar to operating company issuers in other respects. For example, listed
closed-end funds, like operating companies, do not issue redeemable securities (i.e., at the option of the holder);
rather, they issue securities in traditional underwritings, which are subsequently listed on an exchange or traded
in the over-the-counter markets. In addition, listed closed-end funds and operating companies each may be able

35

closed-end funds, like officers and directors of emerging growth companies and smaller
reporting companies which would be subject to the proposed disclosure requirements as
discussed below, are subject to the requirement in Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act to
report hedging transactions. 75
For all of these reasons and those discussed in Section IV below, we propose to
require listed closed-end funds to provide Item 407(i) disclosure and to exclude all other
registered investment companies from these requirements. We request comment below on
this proposed approach and, more generally, on the application of the proposed disclosure
requirements to funds, including whether these requirements should apply to additional
specific types of funds, such as ETFs. We seek input and data on the prevalence of hedging
by employees and directors for all registered investment companies.
b. Emerging Growth Companies and Smaller Reporting Companies
We do not propose to exempt smaller reporting companies or emerging growth
companies from Item 407(i) disclosure. We are not aware of any reason why information
about whether a company has policies affecting the alignment of shareholder interests with
those of employees and directors would be less relevant to shareholders of an emerging
to issue preferred shares and are not restricted in the amount of illiquid assets they may hold, although the assets
of an operating company are generally more illiquid than the securities held by a listed closed-end fund.
75

See Section 30(h) of the Investment Company Act (“Every person who is . . . an officer, director, member of
an advisory board, investment adviser, or affiliated person of an investment adviser of [a registered closed-end
fund] shall in respect of his transactions in any securities of such company (other than short-term paper) be
subject to the same duties and liabilities as those imposed by section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
upon certain beneficial owners, directors, and officers in respect of their transactions in certain equity
securities.”).

36

growth company or a smaller reporting company than to shareholders of any other company.
In this regard, we believe it is consistent with the statutory purpose of Section 14(j) to require
these companies to provide disclosure about their hedging policies. Moreover, given its
narrow focus, the proposed disclosure is not expected to impose a significant compliance
burden on companies. For these reasons, the proposed disclosure would apply to smaller
reporting companies and emerging growth companies to the same extent as other companies
subject to the federal proxy rules.
We acknowledge that the JOBS Act excludes emerging growth companies from
some, but not all, of the provisions of Title IX of the Act, of which Section 955 is a part, 76
and that emerging growth companies and smaller reporting companies are in many instances
subject to scaled disclosure requirements, including with respect to executive
compensation. 77 We believe that it would be more consistent with our historical approach to
corporate governance related disclosures, 78 as well as the statutory objectives of Section
14(j), not to exempt these companies from the proposed disclosure requirement. We

76

Section 102 of the JOBS Act exempts emerging growth companies from: the say-on-pay, say-on-frequency,
and say-on-golden parachutes advisory votes required by Exchange Act Sections 14A(a) and (b), enacted in
Section 951 of the Act; the “pay versus performance” proxy disclosure requirements of Exchange Act Section
14(i), enacted in Section 953(a) of the Act; and the pay ratio disclosure requirements of Section 953(b) of the
Act.
77

See Section 102(c) of the JOBS Act and Item 402(l) of Regulation S-K.

78

See Item 407(a), (b), (c), (d), (e)(1)-(3), (f) and (h) of Regulation S-K; but see Item 407(g) of Regulation S-K
that provides a phase-in period for smaller reporting companies from the disclosure required by Item 407(d)(5)
of Regulation S-K and does not require smaller reporting companies to provide the disclosures required by Item
407(e)(4) and (5) of Regulation S-K. In addition, as noted above, officers and directors at smaller reporting
companies and emerging growth companies are subject to the obligation under Exchange Act Section 16(a) to
report transactions involving derivative securities.

37

recognize that, since emerging growth companies and smaller reporting companies are not
required to provide CD&A disclosure required by Item 402(b) and therefore may not have
had the occasion to consider a hedging policy, these companies may have a greater initial
cost than companies that already have a policy or already disclose one. Further, these
companies would also have on-going costs implementing and administering their policies.
On balance, however, we believe the proposed rule would not constitute a substantial,
incremental burden for smaller reporting companies or emerging growth companies.
In light of what we believe to be the minimal burden imposed by proposed Item
407(i) in terms of additional disclosure and the time necessary to prepare it, we are not
proposing a delayed implementation schedule for smaller reporting companies and emerging
growth companies. We are requesting comment, however, on the need for either an
exemption for smaller reporting companies or emerging growth companies or a delayed
implementation schedule for these companies.
c. Foreign Private Issuers
As noted above, Section 14(j) calls for disclosure in any proxy or consent solicitation
material for an annual meeting of the shareholders of the issuer. Because securities
registered by a foreign private issuer are not subject to the proxy statement requirements of
Exchange Act Section 14, 79 foreign private issuers would not be required to provide Item
407(i) disclosure.

79

Exchange Act Rule 3a12-3(b) [17 CFR 240.3a12-3(b)] specifically exempts securities registered by a foreign
private issuer from Exchange Act Sections 14(a) and 14(c).

38

Request for Comment
13. Should Item 407(i) disclosure be required whenever action is taken with
respect to the election of directors, as proposed? Instead, should we require
disclosure in any proxy or information statement relating to an annual meeting
of shareholders, irrespective of whether directors are to be elected at that
meeting? Should the disclosure be limited only to annual meetings, and not
special meetings, even if directors are to be elected at a special meeting?
14. Should proposed Item 407(i) disclosure also be required in Securities Act and
Exchange Act registration statements? Should it be required in Exchange Act
annual reports on Form 10-K? Would such information be material to
investors in any of those contexts?
15. To retain consistency in the corporate governance disclosure provided in
proxy statements and information statements with respect to the election of
directors, Item 407(i) disclosure as proposed would apply to Schedule 14C as
well as Schedule 14A. Is there any reason that the proposed Item 407(i)
disclosure should be limited to issuers that are soliciting proxies? Why or
why not?
16. In addition to including the new disclosure requirement, the proposed
amendment to Item 7 of Schedule 14A would amend this Item to more
succinctly organize its current provisions without changing the substance. As
so revised, would the requirements of Item 7 be easier to understand?
39

Alternatively, should we retain the current structure of Item 7, with the
addition of the Item 407(i) disclosure?
17. We propose to amend the CD&A requirement of Item 402(b) of Regulation SK to add an instruction providing that the obligation under that item
requirement to disclose material policies on hedging by named executive
officers in a proxy or information statement with respect to the election of
directors may be satisfied by a cross reference to the Item 407(i) disclosure in
that document to the extent that the information disclosed there satisfies this
CD&A disclosure requirement. Is there an alternative way to avoid possibly
duplicative hedging disclosure in these proxy and information statements?
18. Is there a better way to align the requirements of Item 402(b) of Regulation SK and proposed Item 407(i) of Regulation S-K? Are there circumstances in
which the current CD&A requirement in Item 402(b) of Regulation S-K
would result in more complete disclosure about the company’s hedging
policies than what would be required under proposed Item 407(i)? For
example, although Section 14(j) addresses only hedging of equity securities,
would disclosure of employees’ and directors’ ability to hedge other securities
further the statutory purpose? In this regard, should we expand the proposed
disclosure in Item 407(i) to include debt securities?
19. We request comment on all aspects of the proposed disclosure requirements as
applied to funds, including whether all funds or additional types of funds other
40

than listed closed-end funds should be required to provide the proposed
disclosure. Should we require all funds, including mutual funds and ETFs, to
provide the proposed disclosure? Should we, instead, require different
specific types of funds to provide the proposed disclosure? For example,
should we require ETFs to provide the proposed disclosure? Would
shareholders in mutual funds, ETFs, or other types of funds benefit from the
information provided by the proposed disclosure?
20. If we were to require additional types of funds to provide the proposed
disclosure, why and how, if at all, should we modify the disclosure
requirements for such funds? As noted above, some ETFs are organized as
UITs, which do not have boards of directors, and ETFs generally do not hold
annual meetings of shareholders. How should any disclosure under Section
14(j) accommodate these or other characteristics of ETFs if we were to require
ETFs to provide the proposed disclosure?
21. Are there additional characteristics of funds that we should consider in
determining which funds should be required to provide the proposed
disclosure or whether the disclosure requirements should be modified for
funds or particular types of funds? If we were to require some or all funds to
provide the proposed disclosure, including listed closed-end funds as
proposed, what are the benefits and costs expected to result?

41

22. Should we modify the Item 407(i) disclosure requirements for listed closedend funds? Would this information be material to an investor in contexts
other than those relating to voting decisions, such as an investment decision?
Should we also require the disclosure in listed closed-end funds’ other
disclosure documents, such as an annual report or shareholder report next
following a meeting of shareholders, for example? If we were to require all
funds or a broader group of funds to provide Item 407(i) disclosure, should we
also require the disclosure in other disclosure documents, such as the funds’
Statements of Additional Information?
23. As proposed, listed closed-end funds would be required to provide proposed
Item 407(i) disclosure. Should we not require listed closed-end funds to
provide this disclosure? If so, please explain why, and the benefits and costs
that would result.
24. Do funds generally have policies concerning their employees and directors
engaging in hedging transactions of securities issued by their respective funds,
or policies that prohibit such hedging transactions? To what extent do
employees or directors of listed closed-end funds receive shares of such funds
as a form of compensation? Do employees or directors of listed closed-end
funds currently effect hedging transactions with respect to the shares of those
funds and, if so, what kinds of transactions do they effect?

42

25. How could employees or directors effect hedging transactions with respect to
shares of funds other than listed-closed end funds, in particular mutual funds?
How prevalent are these hedging transactions?
26. As proposed, listed closed-end funds, like the other issuers covered by the
proposed amendments, would be required to provide disclosure concerning
hedging of the equity securities issued by the fund or any of the fund’s
parents, subsidiaries or subsidiaries of the fund’s parents that are registered
under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. 80 Should we instead require listed
closed-end funds to provide disclosure only about hedging transactions
concerning the funds’ shares? Would investors in listed closed-end funds
benefit from receiving information about the funds’ directors’ and employees’
holdings of the funds’ parents, subsidiaries or subsidiaries of the fund’s
parents?
27. As proposed, business development companies would be required to provide
proposed Item 407(i) disclosure. Should we modify the disclosure
requirements for business development companies? Should we not require
business development companies to provide this disclosure? If so, please
explain why, and the benefits and costs that would result. Should we only
80

Item 22 of Schedule 14A defines terms used in that Item, including the terms parent and subsidiary. Item
22(a)(1)(ix) defines the term “parent” to mean “the affiliated person of a specified person who controls the
specified person directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.” Item 22(a)(1)(xii) defines the term
“subsidiary” to mean “an affiliated person of a specified person who is controlled by the specified person
directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.”

43

require a business development company to provide the proposed disclosure if
the business development company’s shares are listed on a national securities
exchange?
28. Should smaller reporting companies or emerging growth companies be
exempted from proposed Item 407(i) or subject to a delayed implementation
schedule? If so, please explain why and the benefits and costs that would
result. As discussed below, a component of the disclosure costs (especially
initial costs) may be fixed, which may have a greater impact on smaller
reporting companies and emerging growth companies. Do the proposed
disclosure requirements also impose other potential costs on smaller
reporting companies or emerging growth companies that are different in
kind or degree from those imposed on other companies?) Would the
proposed disclosure requirements be as meaningful for investors in smaller
reporting companies and emerging growth companies as for those in other
companies? Do investors in smaller reporting companies and emerging
growth companies place more, less, or the same value on corporate
governance disclosures of the type proposed here than do investors in larger,
more established companies, either alone or in relation to other disclosures?
29. Should foreign private issuers be required to provide the disclosure? If so,
please explain why and specify the filing(s) in which the disclosure should be
required?
44

30. Are there any other categories of issuers that should be exempt from the
requirement to provide Item 407(i) disclosure? If so, please explain why, and
the benefits and costs that would result.
General Request for Comment
We request and encourage any interested person to submit comments on any aspect of
our proposals, other matters that might have an impact on the proposed amendments, and any
suggestion for additional changes. With respect to any comments, we note that they are of
greatest assistance to our rulemaking initiative if accompanied by supporting data and
analysis of the issues addressed in those comments and by alternatives to our proposals
where appropriate.
IV.
A.

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Background
Section 955 of the Act added Section 14(j) to the Exchange Act, which directs the

Commission to adopt rules requiring an issuer to disclose in any proxy or consent solicitation
material for an annual meeting of its shareholders whether any employee or director of the
issuer, or any designee of an employee or director, is permitted to engage in transactions to
hedge or offset any decrease in the market value of equity securities granted to the employee
or director as compensation, or held directly or indirectly by the employee or director.
To implement the mandate of Section 14(j), we are proposing new paragraph (i) of
Item 407 of Regulation S-K and amendments to Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act.
Further, to reduce potentially duplicative disclosure, we propose to allow a company to
45

satisfy its obligation to disclose material policies on hedging by named executive officers in
the CD&A by cross reference to the information disclosed under proposed Item 407(i) to the
extent that the information disclosed there satisfies this CD&A disclosure requirement.
We are mindful that our proposed amendments can both impose costs and confer
benefits. Exchange Act Section 3(f) requires us, when engaging in rulemaking that requires
us to consider or determine whether an action is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of investors, whether the action will
promote efficiency, competition and capital formation. Exchange Act Section 23(a)(2)
requires us, when adopting rules under the Exchange Act, to consider the impact that any
new rule would have on competition and not to adopt any rule that would impose a burden on
competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the
Exchange Act.
The discussion below addresses the economic effects of the proposed amendments,
including likely benefits and costs, as well as the likely effect of the proposal on efficiency,
competition and capital formation. We request comment throughout this release on
alternative means of meeting the statutory mandate of Section 14(j) and on all aspects of the
costs and benefits of our proposals and possible alternatives. We also request comment on
any effect the proposed disclosure requirements may have on efficiency, competition and
capital formation. We appreciate comments on costs and benefits that are attributed to the
statute itself and, to the extent that they are separable, the costs and benefits that are a result

46

of policy choices made by the Commission in implementing the statutory requirements, as
well as any data or analysis that helps quantify the potential costs and the benefits identified.
B.

Baseline
The proposed amendments affect all issuers registered under Section 12 of the

Exchange Act, including smaller reporting companies (“SRCs”), emerging growth
companies (“EGCs”), and listed closed-end funds, but excluding foreign private issuers
(“FPIs”), and other types of registered investment companies, including non-listed closedend funds, open-end funds, and unit investment trusts. We estimate that approximately 7,447
companies would be subject to the proposed amendments, including 4,620 listed Exchange
Act Section 12(b) registrants and 2,827 non-listed Exchange Act Section 12(g) registrants.
Among the Section 12(b) registrants subject to the proposed amendments, we estimate that
602 are listed closed-end funds, 916 are SRCs or EGCs, and the remaining 3,102 are other
operating companies. Among the Section 12(g) registrants subject to the proposed
amendments, 2,220 are SRCs or EGCs, and the remaining 607 are operating companies that
are not SRCs or EGCs. 81 Other affected parties include these issuers’ employees (including
officers) and directors who hold equity securities of these issuers, and investors in general.

81

We estimate the number of operating companies subject to the proposed amendments by analyzing companies
that filed annual reports on Form 10-K in calendar year 2012 with the Commission. This set excludes ABS
issuers (SIC 6189), registered investment companies, issuers that have filed registration statements but have yet
to file Forms 10-K with the Commission, and foreign issuers filing on Forms 20-F and 40-F. We identify the
companies that have securities registered under Section 12(b) or Section 12(g) from Form 10-K. We also
determine from Form 10-K whether a company is a SRC. We determine whether a company is an EGC by
reviewing both its Form 10-K and any registration statement. We estimate the number of listed closed-end
funds based upon data from the 2014 Investment Company Fact Book, page 170 (available at
http://www.ici.org/pdf/2014_factbook.pdf).

47

Because almost all listed closed-end funds are externally managed by investment advisers
and only a small number of listed closed-end funds are internally managed where the
portfolio managers are employees of the closed-end funds, the proposed amendments will
generally affect the funds’ employees and directors; employees of the funds’ investment
advisers (e.g., portfolio managers) will not be affected by the amendments. 82 Equity
securities covered by the proposed amendments include equity securities issued by the
company, any parent of the company, any subsidiary of the company or any subsidiary of
any parent of the company that are registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. 83
To assess the economic impact of the proposed amendments, we use as our baseline
the state of the market as it exists at the time of this release. For Section 12 registrants (other
than SRCs, EGCs, and listed closed-end funds) that are subject to the proposed amendments,
the regulatory baseline is the current CD&A disclosure requirement in Item 402(b)(2)(xiii) of
Regulation S-K. Item 402(b)(2)(xiii) calls for disclosure of “any registrant policies regarding
hedging the economic risk” of security ownership by named executive officers as one of the
“non-exclusive” examples of information includable in CD&A, if material. To the extent
that a registrant does not have a policy regarding hedging by named executive officers, there
82

Among the approximately 602 listed closed-end funds in 2012, Commission staff has identified only 4
internally-managed closed-end funds from a review of filings with the Commission.
83

In some instances, equity of a company’s subsidiary may be granted as compensation for that company’s
officers (He et al. 2009). Stock holdings in a company’s subsidiary provide officers with an incentive to make
decisions to improve the subsidiary’s performance, which in turn may positively affect the economic prospects
of the parent company. As discussed later, it is important for shareholders (of both the company and its
subsidiary) to better understand whether incentives can be reduced by hedging. See He W., M. K. Tarun, and P.
Wei, 2009, “Agency Problems in Tracking Stock and Minority Carve-out Decisions: Explaining the
Discrepancy in Short- and Long-term Performances” Journal of Economics and Finance 33(1): 27-42.

48

is no obligation to disclose. For SRCs, EGCs, and listed closed-end funds, CD&A disclosure
pursuant to Item 402(b)(2)(xiii) is not currently required.
Additionally, officers and directors of companies with a class of equity securities
registered under Section 12, including SRCs and EGCs, are currently required to report their
hedging transactions involving the company’s equity securities pursuant to Exchange Act
Section 16(a). Further, Section 30(h) of Investment Company Act specifies that officers and
directors of closed-end funds are subject to the same duties and liabilities as those imposed
by Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
Table 1 below draws a comparison between the current requirements for CD&A
disclosure and Section 16 reporting, where applicable, and the proposed disclosure
requirement for the registrants that would be affected by the proposed amendments.
Table 1 - Comparison of Disclosure Requirements
Covered
Company

Covered
Persons

Current
Company
Reporting
Requirement

Current
Officer & Director
Reporting
Requirement

(1)

(2)

(3)

(4)

12(b) companies
NEOs
other than
SRCs, EGCs, and Other
listed closed-end employees
funds
Directors
[Number = 3,102]

Item 402(b)

Section 16(a)

None

Section 16(a),
if an officer

None

Section 16(a)

12(g) companies

Section 16(a)

49

Company
Reporting
Requirement
Under the
Proposed
Amendments
(5)

other than
SRCs and EGCs

NEOs
Other
employees

Item 402(b)
None

Section 16(a),
if an officer

[Number = 607]

Directors

None

Section 16(a)

SRCs & EGCs
under 12(b)

Employees
(including
NEOs) &
Directors

None

Section 16(a), if
an officer or
director

None

Section 16(a), if
an officer or
director

None

Section 30(h) of
the Investment
Company Act

[Number = 916]
SRCs & EGCs
under 12(g)
[Number = 2,220]
Listed closed-end

funds

Employees
(including
NEOs) &
Directors
Employees &
Directors

Item 407(i) 84

[Number = 602]

As illustrated in Table 1, disclosure requirements will increase for all companies
subject to the proposed amendments, although the extent of the increase may vary for
different categories of registrants.

84

As proposed, companies would be required to make disclosure under proposed Item 407(i) when they file
proxy or information statements with respect to the election of directors. Proxy statement disclosure obligations
only arise under Section 14(a), however, when an issuer with a class of securities registered under Section 12
chooses to solicit proxies (including consents). Since the federal securities laws do not require the solicitation
of proxies, the application of Section 14(a) is not automatic. Whether or not an issuer has to solicit therefore
depends upon any requirement under its charter and/or bylaws, or otherwise imposed by law in the state of
incorporation and/or by the relevant stock exchange (if listed). For example, NYSE, NYSE Market, and
NASDAQ generally require solicitation of proxies for all meetings of shareholders. If a listed company then
chooses to hold a meeting at which directors are to be elected and solicit proxies, Section 14(a) would then
apply and compel the disclosure identified in Item 407(i). Section 12(g)-registered companies also can make
the decision to solicit proxies and thus similarly will have to comply with Section 14(a), to the same extent
Section 12(b)-registered companies. When Section 12 registrants that do not solicit proxies from any or all
security holders are nevertheless authorized by security holders to take an action with respect to the election of
directors, disclosure obligations also arise under proposed Item 407(i) due to the requirement to file and
disseminate an information statement under Section 14(c).

50

To establish the baseline practices for Section 12 companies subject to Item
402(b)(2)(xiii), we reviewed the disclosures of “policies regarding hedging” by named
executive officers from two samples of exchange-listed companies. The first sample
included all S&P 500 companies that filed proxy statements during the calendar year 2012,
totaling 484 companies. 85 Our analysis revealed that disclosures are not uniform across
companies. Out of the 484 proxy statements, 158 companies (33%) did not disclose hedging
policies for named executive officers, six companies (1%) disclosed that the company did not
have a policy regarding hedging by named executive officers, 284 companies (59%)
disclosed that named executive officers were prohibited from hedging, and 36 companies
(7%) disclosed that they permitted hedging by named executive officers under certain
circumstances.
The second sample included 100 randomly selected companies from the 494 S&P
Smallcap 600 index companies that filed proxy statements during the calendar year 2012.
These companies are significantly smaller and less widely followed than S&P 500
companies, and, as a result, may have significantly different disclosure practices. These
companies are all exchange-listed, and none are SRCs or EGCs. We found that 71
companies (71%) did not disclose hedging policies for named executive officers, four
companies (4%) disclosed that the company did not have a policy regarding hedging by

85

To be included in the S&P 500 index, the companies must be publicly listed on either the NYSE (NYSE Arca
or NYSE MKT) or NASDAQ (NASDAQ Global Select Market, NASDAQ Select Market or the NASDAQ
Capital Market). Because this index includes foreign companies, there were fewer than 500 proxy statements
filed.

51

named executive officers, 23 companies (23%) disclosed that named executive officers were
prohibited from hedging, and two companies (2%) disclosed that they permitted hedging by
named executive officers under certain circumstances.
Our analysis of the two samples revealed that a significant percentage (34%) of S&P
500 companies, and an even larger percentage of the subset of S&P Smallcap 600 companies
(75%) either did not make a disclosure or reported that they did not have a policy for named
executive officers. This baseline analysis suggests that smaller companies will likely have a
greater initial disclosure burden under the proposed amendments than larger companies.
As mentioned above, SRCs, EGCs, and listed closed-end funds are not required to
make Item 402(b) disclosure and, consequently, are not currently required to disclose any
policies regarding hedging by named executive officers. However, officers and directors at
SRCs and EGCs with a class of equity securities registered under Section 12 are currently
required to report their hedging transactions involving the companies’ equity securities
pursuant to Section 16(a), and officers and directors of registered closed-end funds are
required to make similar reports by Section 30(h) of the Investment Company Act.
Notwithstanding these reports, investors’ ability to use reported insider hedging transactions,
if any, to infer these companies’ policies regarding hedging by officers and directors is
imperfect at best. First, an investor must track all the accumulated insider trades reported to
assess whether there is hedging. Disclosures of particular hedging transactions by officers
and directors could indicate that the company permits that particular type of transaction, that
the company has no hedging policy, or that a company policy was violated but the
52

transaction was reported in accordance with current rules. The absence of reported hedging
transactions could indicate that the company prohibits hedging, that the company permits
hedging but the officers and directors do not engage in hedging transactions, or that officers
and directors engage in hedging transactions but are not complying with Section 16(a)
reporting requirements.
C.

Discussion of Benefits and Costs, and Anticipated Effects on Efficiency,
Competition and Capital Formation
1.

Introduction

From an economic theory perspective, an executive officer’s ownership in the
employer company ties his or her financial wealth to shareholder wealth, and hence can
provide the executive officer with an incentive to improve the company’s performance, as
measured by stock price. 86 Permitting executive officers to hedge can be perceived by
shareholders as a problematic practice 87 because hedging can have the economic effect of
taking a short position on the employer’s stock, which is counter to the interests of other
shareholders.
86

The literature in economics and finance typically refers to a principal-agent model to describe the
employment relationship between shareholders and executive officers (managers) at a company. The principal
(shareholders) hires an agent (manager) to operate the company. However, because shareholders cannot
perfectly observe managerial actions, this information asymmetry gives rise to a moral hazard problem:
managers may act in their own self-interest and not always in the interest of shareholders. This potential
misalignment of incentives is ameliorated when managers are also owners of the company, and thus must
internalize the cost of any actions that harm shareholders or do not otherwise maximize the value of the
company. See, e.g., Jensen, M. C. and W. H. Meckling, 1976. “Theory of The Firm: Managerial Behavior,
Agency Costs and Ownership Structure” Journal of Financial Economics 3: 305-360; Holmstrom, B., 1979.
“Moral Hazard and Observability” Bell Journal of Economics 10: 324-340; Holmstrom, B. and Ricart I Costa,
J., 1986 “Managerial Incentives and Capital Management”, Quarterly Journal of Economics 101, 835-860.
87

See, e.g., Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., “2013 Corporate Governance Policy Updates and Process:
Executive Summary”, Nov. 16, 2012 at http://www.issgovernance.com/file/files/2013ExecutiveSummary.pdf.

53

Alternatively, permitting executive officers to hedge, under certain circumstances,
could align officers’ and shareholders’ preferences more closely and thereby promote more
efficient corporate investment. Compared with well-diversified shareholders, executive
officers are likely to be disproportionately invested in their company and thus inherently
undiversified. 88 The concentrated financial exposure, together with executive officers’
concerns about job security in the event of a stock price decline, could lead them to take on
fewer risky projects (i.e., projects with uncertain future cash flows) that are potentially value
enhancing than would be in the interest of well-diversified shareholders, resulting in
underinvestment. 89 This underinvestment concern can be addressed by providing downside
price protection to executive officers’ equity holdings, in case high-risk projects—that are in
the interest of shareholders at the time of the investment decision—do not turn out to be
successful and thereby cause a decline in the stock price. 90 One way to do so is to permit

88

Meulbroek (2005) points out that employees may be even more undiversified than their equity holdings
suggest: “their continued employment and its relation to the fortunes of the firm, outstanding deferred
compensation owed to the employee, and any firm specific human capital exacerbate employees’ firm-specific
risk exposure.” See Meulbroek, L. 2005, “Company Stock in Pension Plans: How Costly Is It?” Journal of
Law and Economics, vol. XLVIII: 443-474; Hall, B., and K. Murphy. 2002. “Stock options for undiversified
executives” Journal of Accounting and Economics 33: 3–42. Moral hazard and adverse selection issues cause
boards of directors to compel executive officers to maintain large personal investment in their companies.
Executive officers may not be able to diversify this exposure because of explicit stock ownership guidelines for
executives and directors, contractual restrictions on trading equity grants within the vesting periods, and
retention plans that prohibit the sale of unrestricted stock for some time after vesting.
89

This underinvestment concern has been studied in a long strand of academic literature. See e.g., Rappaport,
A. 1978, “Executive Incentives vs. Corporate Growth” Harvard Business Review 57: 81-88; Smith, C., and R.
Stulz. 1985. “The Determinants of Firms’ Hedging Policies”, Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis
20: 391–405; Kaplan, R., 1982, “Advanced Management Accounting” Englewood Cliffs, N. J.: Prentice-Hall;
and Lambert, R., 1986, “Executive Effort and the Selection of Risky Projects” Rand Journal of Economics 17,
77-88.
90

See Hemmer, T., O., Kim, and R. Verrecchia, 1999, “Introducing Convexity into Optimal Compensation
Contracts” Journal of Accounting and Economics 28: 307-327.

54

executive officers to seek downside price protection by hedging their equity holdings.
However, the value of hedging to address potential underinvestment depends on the
availability and cost-effectiveness of other solutions to the underinvestment concern. 91
The theories of equity incentives described above for executive officers may also
apply to critical employees (e.g., key research scientists), because these individuals’ actions
and decisions can also impact company stock price. These theories can also apply to
directors, who typically receive equity-based compensation to align their interests with those
of the shareholders they represent. However, directors may have less incentive to hedge
because their financial wealth is typically better diversified than executive officers’, and is
therefore less sensitive to company stock price. Nevertheless, directors’ compensation,
particularly in the form of equity compensation, grew significantly during the 2000s,
contributing to a significant increase in directors’ equity incentives. 92 The increased level of

91

For example, requiring executive officers to hold stock options can also provide them with incentives to take
on risky but value-enhancing investment projects. Such risk-taking incentives depend on option moneyness: the
incentives are the strongest when options are near the money, but quickly diminish when options go deep in the
money. If a company experiences a sharp stock price increase, which causes executive officers’ option holdings
to become deep in-the-money, such holdings likely would not provide effective risk-taking incentives. In this
situation, permitting executives to hedge may be a better solution to the underinvestment concern than for the
company to grant new at-the-money options, because the latter may cause the company to overpay the
executives. Hedging of corporate operations, as opposed to personal hedging by executive officers, could also
increase the executives’ incentives to take higher risk but value-enhancing corporate projects, but corporate
hedging can be costly. See Smith C. and R. Stulz, 1985, “The Determinants of Firms’ Hedging Policies”
Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 20(4): 392-405).
92

For S&P 1500 companies, median total compensation per outside director rose from $57,514 in 1998 to
$112,745 in 2004 (a 51% increase), far greater than the rate of increase of 24% in CEO compensation over the
same period. The proportion of director pay provided by equity increased from around 45% in 1998 to over
60% in 2004. Yermack (2004) show that, in Fortune 500 companies, some directors near the top of the
distribution receive very significant equity awards that can provide ex-post performance rewards exceeding
those of some CEOs. Altogether, equity holdings, turnover, and opportunities to obtain new board seats provide
outside directors serving in their fifth year with wealth increases of approximately 11 cents per $1,000 rise in

55

directors’ equity incentives suggests that equity incentives could be playing an increasingly
important role in influencing directors’ actions on corporate decisions.
These theories of equity incentives may not apply to employees who do not
participate in making and shaping key operating or strategic decisions that influence stock
price. While some of these employees may also receive equity grants as part of the
companies’ broad-based equity plans, their equity ownership on average is much lower than
that of executive officers. Equity ownership for these employees mainly serves the purpose
of recruitment and job retention, and on an individual employee basis, is unlikely to have a
notable impact on the company’s equity market value. 93 In other words, for employees
below the executive level who typically do not make decisions that influence stock price,
information about their equity incentives and hedging of their equity holdings may be less
relevant for investors.

firm value. Although typically smaller than incentives for CEOs, director incentives can be significant given
that many directors serve on multiple boards. See Yermack, D. 2004, “Remuneration, Retention, and
Reputation Incentives for Outside Directors”, The Journal of Finance LIX: 2281-2308; Farrell K., G. Friesen,
and P. Hersch, 2008, “How Do Firms Adjust Director Compensation?”, Journal of Corporate Finance 14: 153162; J. Linck, J. Netter, and T. Yang, 2009, “The Effects and Unintended Consequences of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act on the Supply and Demand for Directors”, The Review of Financial Studies 22: 3287-3328; and Fedaseyeu
V., J. Linck, and H. Wagner, 2014, “The Determinants of Director Compensation” Bocconi University and
Southern Methodist University working paper (available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=
2335584). Note that these studies used samples prior to 2011; however, we have no reason to believe that
director incentives and compensation have declined significantly in more recent years.
93

See Oyer, P. 2002, “Stock Options – It’s Not Just About Motivation”, Stanford Institute for Economic Policy
Research (available at http://web.stanford.edu/group/siepr/cgibin/siepr/?q=system/files/shared/pubs/papers/briefs/policybrief_oct02.pdf); Oyer, P. and S. Schaefer, 2005,
“Why Do Some Firms Give Stock Options to All Employees?: An Empirical Examination of Alternative
Theories”, Journal of Financial Economics 76 (1): 99–133.

56

Like operating companies, listed closed-end funds also confront a principal-agent
relationship between shareholders and the fund’s directors and employees, if any. The
connection between managerial incentives and firm performance is, however, less direct in
listed closed-end funds than it is in operating companies because almost all of these funds are
externally managed by investment advisers.
Fund directors oversee the many service providers that will typically serve a listed
closed-end fund, including the investment adviser. Holding equity shares in the fund can
align directors’ interests with those of the shareholders. 94 Some listed closed-end funds do
require or encourage directors to hold fund shares. 95 The proposed disclosure thus would
allow the shareholders of a listed closed-end fund whose shares, for example, are trading at a
discount to know if the listed closed-end fund permits its directors to hedge the value of the
fund’s equity securities. The proposed disclosure would thereby show whether the fund’s
directors, like the fund’s other shareholders, would receive that discounted price upon a sale
of the shares without an offset from any hedging transactions.

94

We have previously published the Commission staff’s view that “[f]und directors who own shares in the
funds that they oversee have a clear economic incentive to protect the interests of fund shareholders,” and that
fund policies that encourage or require independent directors to invest the compensation that they receive from
the funds in shares of the funds “gives the independent directors a direct and tangible stake in the financial
performance of the funds that they oversee, and can help more closely align the interests of independent
directors and fund shareholders.” See Interpretive Matters Concerning Independent Directors of Investment
Companies, Investment Company Act Release No. 24083 (Oct. 14, 1999).
95

Zhao (2007) studies 316 closed-end funds in 2002. She finds that 200, or 62.3%, report positive director
ownership. The average (median) director ownership is at $105,493 ($30,001). See Zhao, L., 2007, “Director
Ownership and Fund Value: Evidence from Open-End and Closed-End Funds”, Columbia University working
paper (available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=963047).

57

In an operating company, shareholdings also affect the incentives of employees,
including managers who are making the company’s decisions. In contrast, almost all listed
closed-end funds have few (if any) employees. Fund portfolios are almost always managed
by portfolio managers who are employed by external investment advisers. Because listed
closed-end fund shares are not redeemable and often trade at a discount to NAV,
shareholders of those funds may place importance on the degree of incentive alignment
between funds’ key decision makers and shareholders when making voting decisions. 96
The proposed amendments apply only to employees and directors of the fund itself,
however. As a result, these amendments would not directly affect outside portfolio
managers’ asset choices. However, fund directors may influence the investment adviser’s
management of the fund’s portfolio indirectly, through the directors’ oversight of the
investment adviser, which is responsible for managing the fund’s portfolio consistent with
the fund’s disclosed strategy and investment objectives.
In summary, information on the company’s policies regarding hedging by employees
and directors may help investors better understand the employees’ and directors’ incentives
in creating shareholder wealth. For example, in operating companies, because executive
officers’ and directors’ reported equity holdings in proxy statements may not reflect their
actual economic exposure to the company’s performance, there may in certain cases exist an
information asymmetry between insiders and other investors regarding the executive officers’
96

See Wu, Y., R. Wermers, and J. Zechner, 2013, “Managerial Rents vs. Shareholder Value in Delegated
Portfolio Management: The Case of Closed-End Funds” working paper. Available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2179125&download=yes.

58

and directors’ equity incentives. The mandated disclosures can help mitigate this
information asymmetry.
2.

New Disclosure Requirements Across Covered Companies

Before considering the economic effects from proposed Item 407(i), we first discuss
the new disclosures that would be required for different covered companies, and the new
information from these disclosures. The potential economic effects would likely vary across
companies depending on the nature and amount of new information from the disclosures, the
degree of investment opportunities available to the company, and the likelihood that
employees and directors engage in hedging transactions (discussed in detail later).
Section 12 registrants, with the exception of SRCs, EGCs, and registered investment
companies (which include listed closed-end funds), are currently required under Item 402(b)
to disclose their hedging policies for named executive officers, if material. Companies are
not otherwise currently required to provide information about whether they have a policy on
hedging. They may not be providing such disclosures, possibly because their hedging
policies are not material, or because they do not have a policy. Table 2 divides covered
companies, which includes both operating companies and listed closed-end funds, into four
categories. The first three categories include operating companies. The last category
includes listed closed-end funds.
Table 2 – Four Categories of Covered Companies
Section 12 Companies Subject to the Proposed Amendments
(1) Companies that are subject to Item 402(b) and make disclosures for
named executive officers
(2) Companies that are subject to Item 402(b) but make no disclosures
59

(3) SRCs and EGCs that are not currently required to make Item 402(b)
disclosures but must disclose under Item 407(i)
(4) Listed closed-end funds that are not currently required to make Item
402(b) disclosures but must disclose under Item 407(i)
Category 1 refers to the subset of companies subject to Item 402(b) that currently
provide disclosure about hedging policies for named executive officers. These companies
may be unlikely to change such policies as a result of the proposed amendments. For these
companies, the new disclosures required under proposed Item 407(i) are whether employees
(other than named executive officers) and directors are permitted to hedge.
Category 2 refers to companies subject to Item 402(b) that do not currently disclose
information about whether hedging by their named executive officers is permitted. 97 New
disclosures under the proposed amendments would confirm for shareholders whether hedging
is permitted. Given that shareholders are likely to view a policy prohibiting hedging by
named executive officers as shareholder friendly, 98 the requirement to disclose may prompt
some of these companies to adopt new policies or change their current policies or practices.
97

For example, as discussed above, we collected data on the baseline practice of some Section 12(b) registrants
other than SRCs and EGCs. The proxy statements filed during calendar year 2012 indicated that most of the
S&P 500 companies disclosed their hedging policies for named executive officers: 59% of companies
prohibited hedging, while 7% permitted hedging. The rest either made no disclosure of hedging policy (33% of
companies) or disclosed that they did not have a policy regarding hedging by named executive officers (1% of
companies); we include such companies in category 2. The incidence of no disclosure tended to be higher
among smaller companies.
98

See, e.g., Institutional Shareholder Services Inc., “2013 Corporate Governance Policy Updates and Process:
Executive Summary”, Nov. 16, 2012 at http://www.issgovernance.com/file/files/2013ExecutiveSummary.pdf
(“Stock-based compensation or open market purchases of company stock are intended to align executives' or
directors' interests with those of shareholders. Therefore, hedging of company stock through covered call,
collar, or other derivative transactions severs the ultimate alignment with shareholders' interests. Any amount
hedged will be considered a problematic practice warranting a negative voting recommendation on the election
of directors.”).

60

In light of the required say-on-pay vote on executive compensation, we believe that
companies prohibiting hedging by named executive officers would already have an incentive
to disclose such a policy. Some shareholders may believe it is reasonable to infer that a
company that is subject to Item 402(b) but does not disclose a hedging policy in effect may
permit named executive officers to hedge. As a result, because shareholders either know
through affirmative disclosure under Item 402(b)(2)(xiii) or may believe it is reasonable to
infer from the absence of disclosure that named executive officers are permitted to hedge, the
proposed amendments may not have much effect in reducing uncertainty as it relates to
named executive officers. For Section 12 registrants other than SRCs, EGCs and listed
closed-end funds, the new information provided by disclosures under the proposed
amendments relates primarily to whether employees (other than named executive officers)
and directors are permitted to hedge.
Category 3 refers to SRCs and EGCs, which are currently exempt from Item 402(b).
The new information available to investors under proposed Item 407(i) would require
disclosure, for the first time, about whether employees (including named executive officers)
and directors are permitted to hedge.
Category 4 refers to listed closed-end funds. Since these funds are not currently
subject to Item 402(b), the new information that would be available to shareholders is
comparable in type to that of SRCs and EGCs. However, the new information about listed
closed-end funds may in fact be less substantial than that of SRCs and EGCs for most funds
because almost all listed closed-end funds are externally managed, as discussed above. Only
61

a small number of internally-managed listed closed-end funds have employees, which
include funds’ portfolio managers.
3.

Benefits and Costs

Investors can benefit from the disclosures under the proposed amendments in the
following ways. 99 First, as discussed above, officers’, directors’, and non-officer critical
employees’ equity incentives tend to align their interests with those of the shareholders.
Under the proposed amendments, investors would benefit from new disclosures that provide
more clarity and transparency about these incentives, thereby reducing the information
asymmetry between corporate insiders and shareholders regarding such incentives. Better
information about equity incentives could be useful for investors’ evaluation of companies,
enabling investors to make more informed investment and voting decisions, thereby
encouraging more efficient capital allocation decisions.
Second, the proposed amendments may reduce the costs for investors in researching
and analyzing equity-based incentives. Knowledge that employees and directors are not
permitted to hedge could confirm for investors that the reported equity holdings of officers
and directors in proxy statements and annual reports on Form 10-K represent their actual
incentives. 100 While Section 16(a) reports provide transaction-level information on officer

99

Our discussion focuses on officers and non-officer critical employees, not on employees who do not
participate in making and shaping key operating or strategic decisions that influence stock price. As discussed
earlier, information about these other employees’ equity incentives and hedging of their equity holdings is less
relevant for investors.
100

Between 1996 and 2006, in firms where insiders hedged their equity ownership, insiders on average used
collars, forwards or swaps to cover about 30% of their ownership and placed about 9% of their ownership into

62

and director hedging activity, Forms 3, 4, and 5 may be costly to search; investors also may
incur costs in analyzing whether a reported transaction is indeed a hedge. Moreover, hedging
activity disclosed on a Form 3, 4, or 5 does not indicate whether a transaction was conducted
in accordance with the company’s hedging policy, and therefore may lead to improper
inferences about the company’s hedging policy.
Third, the proposed amendments could also benefit investors if the public nature of
the required disclosures results in changes in hedging policies that improve incentive
alignment between shareholders and executive officers or directors. 101 Companies that
currently already disclose whether named executive officers are permitted to hedge may be
unlikely to substantially change their policies as a result of the proposed amendments.
However, this could be different for companies that do not currently make disclosures on
hedging policies for all employees or directors. 102 Without disclosed hedging policies, these
companies may in fact implicitly permit hedging. However, permitting hedging may not
necessarily promote efficient investment decisions. Employees and directors often demand a
premium for receiving equity compensation in lieu of cash. However, through hedging they

the exchange funds. See Bettis, C., J. Bizjak, and S. Kalpathy, 2013, “Why Do Insiders Hedge Their
Ownership? An Empirical Examination” working paper (available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1364810). There is limited research on hedging
transactions by corporate insiders. Hedging transactions studied in this paper included those by 10% owners. In
addition, the sample period was 1996-2006, and thus the findings may not reflect the current situation.
101

Alternatively, as discussed later, if the change in hedging policies reduces incentive alignment, such change
can reduce shareholder wealth.
102

Such companies include any company that currently does not disclose a hedging policy for any category of
employees (including named executive officers) and directors, so could fall under any of the last three
categories of companies in Table 2.

63

may be able to convert the value of that premium into cash. This causes the company to
overpay relative to its opportunity cost. 103 If, in light of the disclosure requirement under
Item 407(i), the company later chooses to prohibit hedging, this change could increase
shareholder wealth to the extent that the change better aligns incentives and hence induces
officers and directors to make corporate decisions that are more beneficial to all shareholders.
However, to the extent that changes in hedging policies reduce incentive alignment between
shareholders and officers or directors, and results in underinvesting in potentially valueenhancing projects, the opposite effect could result.
The benefits discussed above are relevant for investors of all companies affected by
proposed Item 407(i), including listed closed-end funds. 104 Among operating companies (the
first three categories in Table 2), the new information elicited from the required disclosures
increases, so we expect the benefits from the new disclosures also to increase similarly.
Further, we expect the potential benefits to be higher for EGCs and SRCs (category 3) than
for non-EGCs and non-SRCs (categories 1 and 2), because EGCs and SRCs potentially face
greater risk of a stock price decline than non-EGCs and non-SRCs. EGCs are typically
younger firms with high growth options but fewer financial resources and are more likely to
face financial distress since firm age is among the most important determinants of probability

103

See Larcker D. and B. Tayan, 2010,“Pledge (and Hedge) Allegiance to the Company”, Stanford Closer Look
Series, available at http://ssrn.com/abstract=1690746.
104

Because listed closed-end funds exhibit salient differences in organizational structure, and hence incentive
compensation mechanisms, from operating companies, we do not compare the economic effects of the proposed
amendments between listed closed-end funds and operating companies.

64

of failure. 105 Because employees and directors of EGCs and SRCs potentially face greater
downside price risk than those of non-EGCs and non-SRCs, the former have likely stronger
incentives to hedge, thus making information about permissible hedging activities more
relevant for shareholders of these companies. 106
The benefits to investors also depend on the likelihood that officers and directors
engage in hedging transactions. Officers and directors can hedge by, for example, entering
into exchange-traded or over-the-counter derivative contracts. In either case, however, when
the underlying stock is illiquid, the price of the derivatives contracts likely reflects the higher
risk and cost that would be required to dynamically replicate the exposure of the derivatives
contracts by trading in the underlying stock. As a result, it is likely more costly to hedge the
risk of more illiquid stock. Though undiversified officers and directors have strong
incentives to diversify (e.g., through hedging), they may not engage in hedging transactions
if the cost is too high. In companies whose officers and directors are less likely to hedge due
to high hedging cost, the potential benefits to investors from the required disclosures under
the proposed amendments might be more limited. In the first three categories of companies,

105

See Lane, S., Schary, M.,1991,”Understanding the Business Failure Rate”, Contemporary Economic Policy
9: 93–105; Kapadia, N. 2011. “Tracking Down Distress Risk,” Journal of Financial Economics 102: 167-182
106

Though no study to our knowledge directly examines whether insiders of smaller firms tend to hedge more,
indirect evidence suggests that this is likely the case. For example, Bettis et al. (2001) find a total of 87 zerocost collar transactions by searching Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed between January 1996 and December 1998. Firms
in this sample have total assets with a mean (median) value of $3.4 billion ($401 million). These firms are
much smaller than S&P 500 companies over the same time period, whose total assets have mean (median) of
$16.15 billion ($3.84 billion) based on our calculation. This comparison indicates that hedging by zero-cost
collars is disproportionally more frequent in smaller firms. See Bettis, J., J. Bizjak, and M. Lemmon. 2001.
“Managerial Ownership, Incentive Contracting, and the Use of Zero-cost Collars and Equity Swaps by
Corporate Insiders” Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 36 (3): 345-370.

65

each category includes both exchange-listed and non-exchange-listed companies. Since
stocks of exchange-listed companies are typically more liquid than stocks of non-exchangelisted companies, the potential benefits of the new disclosure to investors of non-exchangelisted companies may be lower than for exchange-listed ones. It is possible that stocks of
smaller companies are less liquid, and hence these companies may be subject to the same
effect.
The expected potential benefits from proposed Item 407(i) would not be achieved
without costs. All covered companies would incur costs to comply with the proposed
amendments. Such costs include both disclosure costs, which stem directly from complying
with the proposed amendments, and potential costs incurred to implement, administer, or
revise a hedging policy.
We first focus on disclosure costs, which should increase with the amount of new
disclosures required under proposed Item 407(i). As discussed above, for operating
companies (i.e., the three first categories in Table 2), the new required disclosures are higher
in categories 2 and 3 than in category 1, so disclosure costs should also be higher in
categories 2 and 3. Specifically, category 1 companies would incur costs to determine
whether employees (other than named executive officers) and directors are permitted to
engage in hedging transactions, and incur costs to provide the required disclosure.
Category 2 companies are subject to Item 402(b) but do not currently disclose any
information about whether hedging by their named executive officers is permitted. To the
extent that these companies permit hedging and that required disclosures under the proposed
66

amendments do not change this practice, this category of companies would incur small
additional costs to disclose their hedging policies for named executive officers. If these
companies instead decide to prohibit hedging by named executive officers, they would incur
a small additional cost to disclose the revised hedging policies, but they could incur other
costs that could be more significant, which we discuss separately below. Similar to category
1, these companies would also incur costs to determine and disclose whether directors and
employees other than named executive officers are permitted to hedge.
Category 3 companies, i.e., SRCs and EGCs, are not currently subject to Item 402(b).
They may be less likely than companies subject to Item 402(b) to have policies, or to have
articulated their practices, on whether hedging is permitted for employees (including named
executive officers) and directors. Some SRCs and EGCs may incur costs in formulating
policies for the first time, which will likely involve obtaining the advice of legal counsel and
may also involve retaining compensation consultants. These companies would also incur
costs in presenting the required disclosures in proxy or information statements.
In Category 4, listed closed-end funds, similar to SRCs and EGCs, would incur costs
to disclose, and possibly to formulate, policies regarding hedging by employees and
directors. As noted above, the vast majority of listed closed-end funds is externally-managed
and thus would incur costs to disclose whether hedging by employees (if any) and directors is
permitted. The limited number of listed closed-end funds that are internally managed also
would incur costs to disclose if employees and directors are permitted to hedge with the

67

difference, relative to externally-managed listed closed-end funds, that these funds will have
portfolio managers and others as employees.
We expect the above disclosure costs to be minimal for these four categories of
companies. A component of these costs (especially initial costs) may be fixed, which may
have a greater impact on the smaller companies in category 3. While we cannot quantify
these disclosure costs with precision, many of the costs reflect the burden associated with
collection and reporting of information that we estimate for purposes of the Paperwork
Reduction Act (“PRA”). For purposes of the PRA, we estimate the total annual increase in
paperwork burden for all covered companies to be approximately 19,283 hours of in-house
personnel time and approximately $2,571,200 for the services of outside professionals. 107
These disclosure costs, however, do not include costs incurred to implement,
administer, or revise a hedging policy. For example, under the proposed amendments, a
company that prohibits hedging by directors may incur additional costs to implement this
policy, e.g., by analyzing whether transactions by a director have the effect of hedging. 108 If
a company revises its hedging policy as a result of the proposed amendments, additional
costs may also arise. Such costs could involve obtaining the advice of compensation
consultants and legal counsel.

107

See Section V of the release.

108

Such costs are only incremental to the extent that the company does not already have procedures in place to
administer and make such determination for named executive officers.

68

Perhaps most importantly, disclosing whether employees and directors are permitted
to hedge might lead to changes in hedging policies that reduce incentive alignment between
shareholders and officers or directors, if the current compensation arrangement is already in
shareholders’ interest. Specifically, a company may currently permit hedging by executive
officers to promote efficient investments in risky projects. As discussed above, companies in
category 1 currently disclose hedging policy for named executive officers, and may be
unlikely to substantially change their policies under proposed Item 407(i). However,
companies in categories 2 and 3, which do not disclose their hedging policies for named
executive officers, may currently permit hedging by named executive officers but could
switch to prohibiting hedging as a result of public disclosure under proposed Item 407(i).
Such a change in policy, in certain instances, could limit executives’ ability to arrive at
optimal levels of economic exposure to the company – i.e., one that leads executives to
undertake the optimal level of risk in corporate investment decisions for the company’s
shareholders. 109 To the extent that compensation incentives materially affect a firm’s value,
such changes could result in a reduction in shareholder wealth.
We expect this cost from distorted investment incentives to be greater for companies
in categories 2 and 3 than those in 1, as the latter may be unlikely to substantially change
their hedging policies. However, between categories 2 and 3, it is not clear whether category
3 (EGCs and SRCs) would incur a higher cost than category 2. On one hand, EGCs and

109

As discussed above, hedging by officers and directors is one of the solutions to the underinvestment concern,
and the significance of such a problem depends on the availability and cost-effectiveness of other solutions.

69

SRCs likely have higher growth options than non-EGCs and non-SRCs. Since the use of
equity incentives to induce officers and directors to make proper corporate investment
decisions is more important for companies with higher growth options, the cost from
distorting investment incentives could be higher for EGCs and SRCs. On the other hand, as
discussed above, such cost is limited by the availability of other cost-effective solutions to
the underinvestment concern, e.g., requiring an officer to hold stock options. Without
adequate data, it is difficult to determine whether and when hedging would be more prevalent
than stock options in providing incentives for officers at EGCs and SRCs as compared to
non-EGCs and non-SRCs. Evidence from academic studies shows that reported hedging
transactions by officers and directors are infrequent; however, officers’ option holdings are
much more prevalent, and the magnitude of CEO options holdings is greater in highergrowth firms to provide risk-taking incentives. 110 Taken together, it is not clear whether
costs to EGCs and SRCs are higher than to companies in category 2.
The extent of the cost resulting from distorted investment incentives not only depends
on a company’ growth opportunities, but also depends on the likelihood that officers and
directors engage in hedging transactions. As discussed above, we expect officers and
directors are less likely to hedge when the equity security is more illiquid, because hedging
cost is higher. As a result, in these companies, hedging by officers and directors is less likely
to be used as a way to address the underinvestment concern in the first place. Thus, the cost

110

See Guay, W., 1999, “The Sensitivity of CEO Wealth to Equity Risk: An Analysis of the Magnitude and
Determinants”, Journal of Financial Economics 53, 43-71.

70

to these companies from prohibiting hedging when it would otherwise be economically
beneficial would also likely to be more limited. In company categories 1, 2, and 3, each
category includes both exchange-listed and non-exchange-listed companies; we expect such
cost to be lower for non-exchange-listed companies than exchange-listed companies, because
equity securities of the former typically are more liquid than equity securities of nonexchange-listed companies. Finally, to the extent that equity securities of smaller companies
are less liquid, these companies may be subject to the same effect.
The effects resulting from distorted incentives are likely to be different between
externally-managed listed closed-end funds and internally-managed listed closed-end funds.
As discussed above, portfolio managers for these externally managed funds are employees of
the funds’ investment advisers and thus are not covered by proposed Item 407(i). Policies on
whether portfolio managers are permitted to hedge, if any, therefore are unlikely to change as
a result of listed closed-end funds complying with proposed Item 407(i). Since these
portfolio managers directly make investment decisions, their incentives to make portfolio
selections are unlikely to be changed by the proposed amendments. Directors of listed
closed-end funds are covered by proposed 407(i), however, and so directors’ equity
incentives could be affected. To the extent that directors do not influence portfolio
managers’ investment decisions, we do not expect listed closed-end funds to incur any cost
from possible distortion of director incentives by the required disclosure under Item 407(i).
However, directors oversee the fund’s investment adviser (and other service providers),
which employs the portfolio managers for the funds. If directors exert some influence over
71

portfolio managers’ investment decisions through their oversight of the investment adviser,
closed-end funds may incur cost from distorted director incentives. Out of all listed closedend funds, we estimate only 4 are internally managed, so their portfolio managers are
covered by proposed 407(i). These four closed-end funds may incur cost resulting from
distortion to both portfolio managers’ and directors’ incentives by the required disclosure
under Item 407(i).
A revision in hedging policy also could impose costs on employees and directors.
For example, if the company currently allows hedging for named executive officers but
decides to prohibit all hedging transactions as a result of the new proposed disclosure
requirements, named executive officers may incur costs stemming from the loss of their
ability to hedge their current and future equity compensation awards or holdings. 111

111

Such loss does not necessarily need to be compensated through other forms of compensation. Consider the
following three alternative scenarios. First, under efficient contracting where hedging by officers promotes
efficient investment decisions, officers are paid their opportunity wage to the extent that their labor market is
competitive. If hedging is later prohibited as a result of public disclosure under the proposed amendments,
these companies would resort to other, possibly more costly, compensation mechanisms to promote efficient
investment decisions. While this change represents a cost to the company, officers still would receive their
opportunity wage, so they are not better or worse off than before. Note that the dollar amount of the
compensation may vary due to a potential change in riskiness of compensation. Prohibiting hedging may affect
the riskiness of officers’ compensation, but the riskiness also depends on the use of new types of compensation
mechanism to promote efficient investments decisions, so the direction of the net change is not clear. The
change in the dollar amount of compensation, if any, reflects the change in the riskiness of the compensation,
and is not a compensation for a loss in hedging opportunity. Second, if the labor market is not competitive,
officers may be paid above their opportunity wage. If hedging is used to promote efficient investment
decisions, prohibiting it as a result of public disclosure under the proposed amendments may shift the balance of
power between the board and officers. While the loss of hedging opportunity is a cost to the officers, they may
not be compensated for it as long as their compensation is still above their opportunity wage. Third, if hedging
by officers is not in shareholders’ interests, a change from permitting to prohibiting hedging better aligns
incentives. Officers may incur a cost from the loss of ability to hedge, but such cost merely represents the loss
in the rents extracted by officers, and the officers should not be compensated for it.

72

These costs incurred to implement a hedging policy or to revise a hedging policy are
difficult to quantify. For example, in the absence of data on a company’s investment
opportunities, the magnitude of the inefficiency in choosing investment projects as a result of
a change in hedging policy is difficult to estimate.
The proposed amendments would also require Item 407(i) disclosure in Schedule
14C, in addition to Schedule 14A. This would extend the disclosure requirements and
potential benefits described above to the Section 12(g) companies that do not file proxy
statements with respect to the election of directors, thereby facilitating better understanding
of companies’ corporate governance policies and practices, without regard to whether proxies
or consents are solicited or otherwise obtained for such an action. At the same time,
requiring the disclosure specified in proposed Item 407(i) to be included in information
statements on Schedule 14C would impose costs on companies that file Schedule 14C.
However, consistency of the disclosure requirements applicable to both Schedules 14A and
14C in the context of an action with respect to the election of directors would facilitate better
understanding of how companies address hedging, without regard to whether proxies or
consents are solicited or otherwise obtained in connection with such action.
The proposed amendment to Item 402(b) would add an instruction providing that a
company may satisfy its CD&A obligation to disclose any material policies on hedging by
named executive officers under that requirement by cross referencing to the information
disclosed pursuant to proposed Item 407(i) to the extent that the information disclosed there
would satisfy this CD&A disclosure requirement. This approach would reduce potentially
73

duplicative disclosure in complying with the existing CD&A requirements under Item 402(b)
and the proposed requirements of Item 407(i), thereby reducing issuers’ cost of compliance.
Locating all the responsive disclosure in one place also would make it easier for investors to
find it.
4. Anticipated Effects on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital Formation
As discussed above, the proposed amendments may improve capital allocation
efficiency by enabling investors to make more informed voting decisions. The disclosure
costs incurred by Section 12 registrants to comply with the proposed amendments would be
minimal, and hence unlikely to put any company at a competitive disadvantage. However, as
discussed above, additional costs could arise if companies revise their hedging policies from
permitting hedging to prohibiting hedging by officers and directors. Such a change could
aggravate the underinvestment concern and result in shareholder wealth reduction. However,
such costs would be limited by the availability and cost-effectiveness of other means to
promote investments in high risk but value-enhancing projects. 112 The proposed
amendments are unlikely to have a notable impact on the competition either among U.S.
companies or between U.S. companies and FPIs. We also do not expect the proposed
amendments to affect the attractiveness of employment opportunities at the company to
employees and directors, and hence impact the competitiveness of the labor market of
employees and directors. The proposed amendments would impose new costs on companies

112

See footnote 91.

74

seeking to become public, but such costs, taken alone, are unlikely to be a significant hurdle
to companies seeking to become public.
D.

Alternatives
1. Changing the Scope of Disclosure Obligations
The proposed amendments would extend reporting requirements to information

statements on Schedule 14C. This extension primarily affects those Section 12(g) registrants
that do not file proxy statements given that Section 12(b) registrants are generally required to
solicit proxies. We have considered alternatives to this extension. One alternative would be
to require proposed Item 407(i) disclosure in proxy statements only, i.e., not in information
statements. This would reduce the disclosure burden on companies that do not solicit proxies
from any or all security holders but are otherwise authorized by security holders to take an
action with respect to the election of directors. However, providing Item 407(i) disclosure in
information statements provides consistency in disclosures in proxy statements and
information statements, so that the disclosure could be made to all shareholders when a
company does not solicit proxies from any or all security holders but are otherwise
authorized by security holders to take a corporate action with respect to the election of
directors. Excluding the Item 407(i) disclosure from information statements, as under this
alternative, would reduce such benefits.
We also considered extending the proposed disclosure requirement to Form 10-K
filings of Section 12 companies in order to impose consistent disclosure obligations upon all
registrants with a class of securities registered under Section 12. This extension would have
75

increased the proposed disclosure obligations especially for Section 12(g) companies that did
not solicit proxies as they then would be required to provide the required disclosure in annual
Form 10-K filings. Moreover, extending the disclosure requirement to all Section 12(g)
companies may provide limited benefits to shareholders, as non-exchange listed companies
can have infrequently traded stock, making it more costly and thus less likely that employees
and directors would pursue hedging opportunities.
2. Issuers Subject to the Proposed Amendments
The proposed amendments apply to all Section 12 registrants, including EGCs, SRCs,
and listed closed-end funds. We have considered the following alternatives about the scope
of the proposed amendments.
The first alternative would be to either exempt or delay the application of the
proposed amendments to EGCs and SRCs. Doing so would reduce costs for these entities,
but the potential benefits would be eliminated or delayed as well. As discussed above, we
expect the potential benefits from the required disclosures under proposed Item 407(i) to be
higher for shareholders of EGCs and SRCs (i.e., category 3 in Table 2) than for shareholders
of other operating companies (i.e., categories 1 and 2). While EGCs and SRCs likely also
incur a higher cost from distorted incentives than companies in category 1, it is not clear
whether such cost is higher than that for companies in category 2.
Not exempting EGCs and SRCs from the proposed amendment is also consistent with
officers and directors at these companies not being exempt from the obligation under
Exchange Act Section 16(a) to disclose hedging transactions involving derivative securities.
76

The second alternative is to include all funds, including mutual funds and ETFs, or a
broader group of funds than listed closed-end funds, as proposed. Requiring all funds to
provide the proposed disclosure would impose costs on the funds. The disclosure also could
provide benefits, however, although the benefits to investors in funds other than listed
closed-end funds may not be as significant where fund shares do not trade on an exchange.
As discussed above, exchange-listed fund shares likely are more liquid than non-exchangelisted fund shares. Due to increased cost to hedge less liquid shares, directors and employees
of non-exchange-listed funds may be less likely to engage in hedging transactions than those
at exchange-listed funds. 113
Further, the benefits that would result from applying the proposed amendments to
ETFs are likely lower than the benefits from applying the proposed amendments to listed
closed-end funds as proposed. Employees (if any) and directors of ETFs may not have as
strong an incentive to hedge their personal fund shareholdings as those at listed closed-end
funds. First, listed closed-end funds likely are more volatile than ETFs. While the shares of
many ETFs often trade on the secondary market at prices close to NAV of the shares, one
study finds that closed-end funds’ monthly return on average is 64% more volatile than that
of the underlying NAV. 114 The difference in volatility between ETF and closed-end fund
returns is not driven by the difference in NAV between the two types of funds, and the listed
113

The scope for hedging may be even more limited for mutual funds, as investors purchase mutual fund shares
from or sell them to the fund daily at NAV.
114

See Pontiff, J., 1997, “Excess Volatility and Closed-End Funds” American Economic Review 87 (1): 155169. Day et al. (2011) find similar evidence in a much more recent sample. See Day T., G. Li, and Y. Xu,
2011, “Dividend Distributions and Closed-end Fund Discounts” Journal of Financial Economics 100: 579-593.

77

closed-end funds’ “excess” volatility is largely idiosyncratic, and cannot be explained by
market risk or risks that affect other closed-end funds. 115 Employees and directors of listed
closed-end funds may therefore have more incentive to hedge their fund shareholdings due to
the “excess” volatility. Second, the non-redeemability of listed closed-end fund shares
allows the funds to take more illiquid positions, or positions that may not be possible to sell
quickly and at short notice without incurring a substantial loss in value. Due to the
potentially heightened liquidity risk in the funds’ portfolios, fund directors and employees
may prefer not to expose their personal portfolios to the volatility resulting from liquidity risk
and thus may hedge their personal fund share holdings. To the extent that listed closed-end
funds have greater ability than ETFs to invest in illiquid assets, it is possible that employees
and directors of listed closed-end funds would have more incentives to hedge their personal
holdings.
Another alternative is not to require any funds to provide the proposed disclosure.
Doing so would not impose costs related to the proposed rule on the funds. However, fund
investors, including investors in listed closed-end funds, also would not derive any benefits,
including a better understanding of policies that may affect incentives provided by fund
shareholdings of employees and directors.

115

Id.

78

E.

Request for Comments
1. We request information including data that would help quantify the costs and
the value of the benefits of the proposed amendments described above. We
seek estimates of these costs and benefits, as well as any costs and benefits not
already defined, that may result from the adoption of the proposed
amendment. We also request qualitative feedback on the nature of the
benefits and costs described above and any benefits and costs we may have
overlooked.
2. We are interested in any studies or analysis on the number and characteristics
of companies that have made disclosures of their “policies regarding hedging”
under the existing requirement of Item 402(b)(2)(xiii) or otherwise. In
particular, among the companies subject to the reporting requirement of Item
402(b)(2)(xiii), how many have hedging policies that they do not disclose
because they do not deem them material? Among companies that disclose
hedging policies, what are the types of the “policies” disclosed?
3. Among companies currently subject to Item 402(b), some make no disclosure
of a hedging policy for named executive officers. We believe that it may be
reasonable to construe the absence of a disclosure of hedging policy to mean
that the company does not prevent named executive officers from hedging. Is
there evidence to the contrary? Are we correct in thinking that investors may
draw the same inference?
79

4. To our knowledge, hedging transactions typically involve derivative contracts,
and fixed price derivative contracts are subject to reporting under Section
16(a). Are there any types of hedging transactions that are not currently
subject to reporting by officers and directors under Section 16(a)? If yes,
please provide details.
5. Would the proposed disclosure increase the transparency to investors about
the incentives provided by employees’ and directors’ equity holdings? Are
there alternative ways to make the disclosures that would be more useful to
investors in evaluating employees’ and directors’ incentive alignment with
shareholders while still satisfying the mandate of Section 14(j)?
6. What impact would the proposed amendments have on the incentives of
employees and directors? Would the proposed amendments likely change the
behavior of issuers, investors, or other market participants?
7. Would the proposed disclosure requirements be likely to cause companies to
change their policies on whether hedging is permitted for employees and
directors? Why and how? If so, what costs would be incurred? What effect,
if any, may the proxy voting policies of institutional investors and proxy
advisory firms have on a company’s decision to change its policy? Have
institutional investors and proxy advisory firms already established hedging
policy positions that have been guiding voting decisions and vote
recommendations? Have institutional investors and proxy advisory firm
80

recommendations regarding such policies encouraged companies to provide
transparency into hedging transactions that are permitted at the companies?
How would the transparency into hedging transactions as a result of this
disclosure impact investor communication with companies about such
policies? What effect will this proposed disclosure requirement have on
voting decisions? Would the proposed disclosure requirements be likely to
cause companies to change their compensation policies for employees
(including officers) or directors? Why or why not, and if so, how?
8. If a company revises its hedging policy, would this revision influence other
corporate decisions, for example, by encouraging or discouraging more risky
but value-enhancing corporate investments? Please explain and provide data.
9. Relative to other operating companies, would the proposed amendments have
differential economic effects on EGCs and SRCs that we do not currently
discuss in the release? If so, what are these differential economic effects?
Would the impact of the proxy voting policies of institutional investors and
proxy advisory firms, if any, be different for EGCs and SRCs than for other
operating companies? In the absence of disclosure of hedging policies by
EGCs and SRCs, to what extent have hedging policy positions of institutional
investors and proxy advisory firms already been guiding voting decisions and
vote recommendations for EGCs and SRCs?

81

10. Are the costs and benefits of disclosing information about whether non-officer
employees are permitted or prohibited to hedge different from the costs and
benefits of disclosing information about officers and directors? If so, should
the rule be modified to take those differences into account?
11. What impact would the proposed amendments have on competition? Would
the proposed amendments put registrants subject to the new disclosure
requirements, or particular types of registrants subject to the new disclosure
requirements, at a competitive advantage or disadvantage?
12. What impact would the proposed amendments have on efficiency? Have we
overlooked any positive or negative effects on efficiency?
13. What impact would the proposed amendments have on capital formation?
Would there be any positive or negative effects on capital formation that we
may have overlooked?
14. Are listed closed-end funds subject to an incentive alignment concern due to
shareholders’ inability to redeem their shares from the fund (or often to sell
them in secondary transactions at or close to the funds’ NAV per share) that
would relate to hedging considerations? What are the characteristics of listed
closed-end funds’ incentive structure with respect to employees and directors
that would inform this consideration?
15. We note above that shares of listed closed-end funds are not redeemable, and
they may trade at a discount to NAV. Will this create heightened incentives
82

for these funds’ employees and directors to hedge personal holdings in listed
closed-end funds as compared to employees and directors of other types of
funds? Are there features of ETFs that would make the disclosures under the
proposed amendments particularly useful for their investors even though ETF
shares often trade on the secondary market at prices close to NAV of the
shares? Are there features of mutual funds or other types of funds that would
make the disclosures under the proposed amendments particularly useful for
their investors?
16. The potential cost to companies from distorting investment incentives as a
result of required disclosures under proposed Item 407(i) is lower for
companies with fewer investment choices. How, if at all, does the range of
available investment choices for listed closed-end funds differ from that for
operating companies?
V.

PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT
A.

Background

The proposed amendments contain “collection of information” requirements within
the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”). We are submitting the
proposed amendments to the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”) for review in
accordance with the PRA. 116 The titles for the collection of information are:

116

44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11.

83

(1)

“Regulation 14A and Schedule 14A” (OMB Control No. 3235-0059);

(2)

“Regulation 14C and Schedule 14C” (OMB Control No. 3235-0057);

(3)

“Regulation S-K” (OMB Control No. 3235-0071); 117 and

(4)

“Rule 20a-1 under the Investment Company Act of 1940, Solicitation of Proxies,
Consents, and Authorizations” (OMB Control No. 3235-0158).
Regulation S-K was adopted under the Securities Act and Exchange Act; Regulations

14A and 14C and the related schedules were adopted under the Exchange Act; and Rule 20a1 was adopted under the Investment Company Act. The regulations and schedule set forth
the disclosure requirements for proxy and information statements filed by companies to help
investors make informed investment and voting decisions. The hours and costs associated
with preparing, filing and sending the schedule constitute reporting and cost burdens imposed
by each collection of information. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is
not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid
OMB control number. Compliance with the proposed amendment would be mandatory.
Responses to the information collection would not be kept confidential, and there would be
no mandatory retention period for the information disclosed.

117

The paperwork burden from Regulation S-K is imposed through the forms that are subject to the disclosure
requirements in Regulation S-K and is reflected in the analysis of these forms. To avoid a Paperwork Reduction
Act inventory reflecting duplicative burdens, for administrative convenience we estimate the burden imposed by
Regulation S-K to be a total of one hour.

84

B.

Summary of the Proposed Amendments

We are proposing to add new paragraph (i) to Item 407 of Regulation S-K that would
implement Section 14(j) of the Exchange Act, as added by Section 955 of the Act. As
discussed in more detail above, proposed Item 407(i) would require disclosure of whether
employees and directors of the company, or their designees, are permitted to hedge or offset
any decrease in the market value of equity securities that are granted to them by the company
as part of their compensation, or that are held, directly or indirectly, by them. Pursuant to the
proposed amendment to Item 7 of Schedule 14A, and for listed closed-end funds, the
proposed amendment to Item 22 of Schedule 14A, this new disclosure would be required in
proxy or consent solicitation materials with respect to the election of directors, or an
information statement in the case of such corporate action authorized by the written consent
of security holders.
In addition, to reduce potentially duplicative disclosure between proposed Item 407(i)
and the existing requirement for CD&A under Item 402(b) of Regulation S-K, we propose to
amend Item 402(b) to add an instruction providing that a company may satisfy its obligation
to disclose material policies on hedging by named executive officers in the CD&A by cross
referencing the information disclosed pursuant to proposed Item 407(i) to the extent that the
information disclosed there satisfies this CD&A disclosure requirement. 118 This instruction,

118

Proposed Instruction 6 to Item 402(b).

85

like the Item 407(i) disclosure requirement, would apply to the company’s proxy or
information statement with respect to the election of directors.
C.

Burden and Cost Estimates Related to the Proposed Amendments

If adopted, proposed Item 407(i) would require additional disclosure in proxy
statements filed on Schedule 14A with respect to the election of directors and information
statements filed on Schedule 14C where such corporate action is taken by the written
consents or authorizations of security holders, and would thus increase the burden hour and
cost estimates for each of those forms. For purposes of the PRA, we estimate the total annual
increase in the paperwork burden for all affected issuers to comply with our proposed
collection of information requirements, averaged over the first three years, to be
approximately 19,238 hours of in-house personnel time and approximately $2,565,200 for
the services of outside professionals (see Table 3). 119 These estimates include the time and
cost of collecting and analyzing the information, preparing and reviewing disclosure, and
filing the documents.
In deriving our estimates, we assumed that the information that proposed Item 407(i)
would require to be disclosed would be readily available to the management of a company
because it only requires disclosure of policies they already have but does not direct them to
have a policy or dictate the content of the policy. Nevertheless, we used burden estimates
similar to those used in the 2006 Executive Compensation Disclosure Release for updating

119

Our estimates represent the average burden for all companies, both large and small.

86

Schedules 14A and 14C, which we believe were more extensive. 120 Since the first year of
compliance with the proposed amendment is likely to be the most burdensome because
companies are not likely to have compiled this information in this manner previously, we
assumed it would take five total hours per form the first year and two total hours per form in
all subsequent years.
Based on our assumptions, we estimated that the proposed amendments would
increase the burden hour and cost estimates per company by an average of three total hours
per year over the first three years the amendments are in effect for each Schedule 14A or
Schedule 14C with respect to the election of directors.
We recognize that the burdens may vary among individual companies based on a
number of factors, including the size and complexity of their organizations, and whether or
not they prohibit or restrict hedging transactions by employees, directors and their designees
and if they do, the specificity and complexity of such restrictions.
The table below shows the three-year average annual compliance burden, in hours
and in costs, of the collection of information pursuant to proposed Item 407(i) of Regulation
S-K. 121 The burden estimates were calculated by multiplying the estimated number of
responses by the estimated average amount of time it would take a company to prepare and
review the proposed disclosure requirements. The portion of the burden carried by outside

120

See the 2006 Executive Compensation Disclosure Release.

121

For convenience, the estimated hour and cost burdens in the table have been rounded to the nearest whole
number.

87

professionals is reflected as a cost, while the portion of the burden carried by the company
internally is reflected in hours. For purposes of the PRA, we estimate that 75% of the burden
of preparation of Schedules 14A and 14C is carried by the company internally and that 25%
of the burden of preparation is carried by outside professionals retained by the company at an
average cost of $400 per hour. There is no change to the estimated burden of the collections
of information under Regulation S-K because the burdens that this regulation imposes are
reflected in our burden estimates for Schedule 14A and 14C.
Table 3.

Incremental Paperwork Burden under the proposed amendments affecting
Schedules 14A and 14C - Three-Year Average Costs.
Number of
responses
(A) 122

Incremental
burden
hours/form

Total
incremental
burden hours

(B)

(C)=(A)*(B)

Internal
company time
(D)=(C)*0.75

External
professional
time

External
Professional
costs

(E)=(C)*0.25

(F)=(E)*$400

Sch. 14A

7,300

3

21,900

16,425

5,475

$2,190,000

Sch. 14C

680

3

2,040

1,530

510

$ 204,000

Rule 20a-1
Total

590
8,570

3

1,770

1,328

443

$177,200

25,710

19,283

6,428

$2,571,200

The proposed amendment to the CD&A requirement under Item 402(b) would not be
applicable to smaller reporting companies or emerging growth companies because under
current CD&A reporting requirements these companies are not required to provide CD&A in

122

For Schedules 14A and 14C, the number of responses reflected in the table equals the three-year average of
the number of schedules filed with the Commission and currently reported by the Commission to OMB. For
Rule 20a-1, the number of responses reflected in the table is based on an average of three years’ of data from
2012-2014 in the 2014 ICI Fact book.

88

their Commission filings. For all other issuers, we do not expect this amendment would
materially affect the disclosure burden associated with their Commission filings.
D.

Request for Comment

Pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(B), we request comment in order to:
•

evaluate whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the
proper performance of the functions of the Commission, including whether the
information will have practical utility;

•

evaluate the accuracy of our assumptions and estimates of the burden of the
proposed collection of information;

•

determine whether there are ways to enhance the quality, utility and clarity of the
information to be collected;

•

evaluate whether there are ways to minimize the burden of the collection of
information on those who respond, including through the use of automated
collection techniques or other forms of information technology; and

•

evaluate whether the proposed amendments will have any effects on any other
collection of information not previously identified in this section.

Any member of the public may direct to us any comments concerning the accuracy of
these burden estimates and any suggestions for reducing these burdens. Persons submitting
comments on the collection of information requirements should direct their comments to the
Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC
89

20503, and send a copy to, Brent J. Fields, Secretary, U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090, with reference to File No. S701-15. Requests for materials submitted to OMB by the Commission with regard to the
collection of information should be in writing, refer to File No. S7-01-15 and be submitted to
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of FOIA Services, 100 F Street NE,
Washington DC 20549-2736. OMB is required to make a decision concerning the collection
of information between 30 and 60 days after publication of this release. Consequently, a
comment to OMB is best assured of having its full effect if the OMB receives it within 30
days of publication.
VI.

SMALL BUSINESS REGULATORY ENFORCEMENT FAIRNESS ACT
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, or

“SBREFA,” 123 we solicit data to determine whether the rule proposals constitute a “major”
rule. Under SBREFA, a rule is considered “major” where, if adopted, it results or is likely to
result in:
•

an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more (either in the form of an
increase or a decrease);

123

•

a major increase in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries; or

•

significant adverse effects on competition, investment or innovation.

Pub. L. No. 104-121, Title II, 110 Stat. 857 (1996).

90

Commentators should provide empirical data on: (1) the potential annual effect on the
economy; (2) any increase in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries; and (3)
any potential effect on competition, investment or innovation.
VII.

INITIAL REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ACT ANALYSIS
This Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis has been prepared in accordance with the

Regulatory Flexibility Act. 124 This analysis involves a proposal to require, in proxy or
consent solicitation materials, or in an information statement, with respect to the election of
directors disclosure of whether employees (including officers), directors or their designees
are permitted to engage in transactions to hedge or offset any decrease in the market value of
equity securities granted to them as compensation, or directly or indirectly held by them.
A.

Reasons for, and Objectives of, the Proposed Action

The proposed amendments are designed to implement Section 14(j), which was added
to the Exchange Act by Section 955 of the Act. Specifically, the proposed amendments
would require disclosure, in any proxy or information statement with respect to the election
of directors, of whether any employee or director of the company or any designee of such
employee or director, is permitted to purchase any financial instruments (including but not
limited to prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps, collars, and exchange funds) or
otherwise engage in transactions that are designed to or have the effect of hedging or
offsetting any decrease in the market value of equity securities, that are granted to the

124

5 U.S.C. 603.

91

employee or director by the company as compensation, or held, directly or indirectly, by the
employee or director. The covered equity securities would be equity securities issued by the
company, any parent of the company, any subsidiary of the company or any subsidiary of
any parent of the company that are registered under Exchange Act Section 12.
B.

Legal Basis

We are proposing the amendments pursuant to Section 955 of the Act, Sections 14,
23(a) and 36(a) of the Exchange Act, as amended, and Sections 6, 20(a) and 38 of the
Investment Company Act, as amended.

C.

Small Entities Subject to the Proposed Amendments

The proposed amendments would affect some companies that are small entities. The
Regulatory Flexibility Act defines “small entity” to mean “small business,” “small
organization,” or “small governmental jurisdiction.” 125 The Commission’s rules define
“small business” and “small organization” for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act for
each of the types of entities regulated by the Commission. Exchange Act Rule 0-10(a) 126
defines a company, other than an investment company, to be a “small business” or “small
organization” if it had total assets of $5 million or less on the last day of its most recent fiscal
year. We estimate that there are approximately 428 issuers that may be considered small
entities. The proposed amendments would affect small entities that have a class of securities
125

5 U.S.C. 601(6).

126

17 CFR 240.0-10(a).

92

that are registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. An investment company, including
a business development company, is considered to be a “small business” if it, together with
other investment companies in the same group of related investment companies, has net
assets of $50 million or less as of the end of its most recent fiscal year. 127 We believe that
the proposal would affect some small entities that are investment companies. We estimate
that there are approximately 29 investment companies that would be subject to the proposed
rule that may be considered small entities.
D.

Reporting, Recordkeeping and other Compliance Requirements

The proposed amendments would add to the proxy disclosure requirements of
companies, including small entities, that file proxy or information statements with respect to
the election of directors, by requiring them to provide the disclosure called for by the
proposed amendment. Specifically, proposed Item 407(i) would require disclosure of
whether any employee or director of the company or any designee of such employee or
director, is permitted to purchase any financial instruments (including but not limited to
prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps, collars, and exchange funds) or otherwise
engage in transactions that are designed to or have the effect of hedging or offsetting any
decrease in the market value of equity securities, that are granted to the employee or director
by the company as compensation, or held, directly or indirectly, by the employee or director.

127

17 CFR 270.0-10(a).

93

E.

Duplicative, Overlapping or Conflicting Federal Rules

We believe that the proposed amendments would not duplicate, overlap or conflict
with other federal rules. The proposal would reduce potentially duplicative disclosure by
adding an instruction permitting a company to satisfy any obligation under Item 402(b) of
Regulation S-K to disclose in the CD&A material policies on hedging by named executive
officers by cross referencing to the new disclosure required by proposed Item 407(i) to the
extent that the information disclosed there satisfies this CD&A disclosure requirement. 128
However, as described above, the CD&A disclosure obligation does not apply to small
entities that are emerging growth companies, smaller reporting companies or registered
investment companies.
F.

Significant Alternatives

The Regulatory Flexibility Act directs us to consider alternatives that would
accomplish our stated objectives, while minimizing any significant adverse impact on small
entities. In connection with the proposed amendments, we considered the following
alternatives:
•

establishing different compliance or reporting requirements or timetables that take
into account the resources available to small entities;

•

clarifying, consolidating, or simplifying compliance and reporting requirements
under the rules for small entities;

128

Proposed Instruction 6 to Item 402(b).

94

•

use of performance rather than design standards; and

•

exempting small entities from all or part of the proposed requirements.

We believe that the proposed amendments would require clear and straightforward
disclosure of whether employees or directors are permitted to engage in transactions to hedge
or offset any decrease in the market value of equity securities granted to them as
compensation, or directly or indirectly held by them. Given the straightforward nature of the
proposed disclosure, we do not believe that it is necessary to simplify or consolidate the
disclosure requirement for small entities. We have used performance standards in connection
with the proposed amendments by proposing to use a principles-based approach to identify
transactions that would hedge or offset any decrease in the market value of equity securities.
Additionally, the amendments do not specify any specific procedures or arrangements a
company must develop to comply with the standards, or require a company to have or
develop a policy regarding employee and director hedging activities.
We considered, but have not proposed, different compliance requirements or an
exemption for small entities. We believe that mandating uniform and comparable disclosures
across all issuers subject to our proxy rules will promote informed shareholder voting. The
proposed rule amendments are intended to provide transparency regarding whether
employees, directors, or their designees are allowed to engage in hedging transactions that
will permit them to receive compensation without regard to company performance, or will
permit them to mitigate or avoid the risks associated with long-term equity security

95

ownership. 129 We believe this transparency would be just as beneficial to shareholders of
small companies as to shareholders of larger companies. By increasing transparency
regarding these matters, the proposed amendments are designed to improve the quality of
information available to all shareholders, thereby promoting informed voting decisions.
Different compliance requirements or an exemption for small entities may interfere with the
goal of enhancing the information provided by all issuers. We also note that the disclosure is
expected to result in minimal additional compliance costs for issuers although there could be
indirect costs for some small entities, depending on their current hedging policies. Thus, we
believe that our proposed amendments will promote consistent disclosure among all issuers,
without creating a significant new burden for small entities.
Although we preliminarily believe that an exemption for small entities from coverage
of the proposed amendments would not be appropriate, we solicit comment on whether we
should exempt small entities. At this time, we do not believe that different compliance
methods or timetables for small entities would be necessary given the relatively
straightforward nature of the disclosure involved. Nevertheless, we solicit comment on
whether different compliance requirements or timetables for small entities would be
appropriate and consistent with the purposes of Section 14(j).

129

See Senate Report 111-176.

96

G.

Solicitation of Comments

We encourage the submission of comments with respect to any aspect of this Initial
Regulatory Flexibility Analysis. In particular, we request comments regarding:
•

how the proposed amendments can achieve their objective while lowering the
burden on small entities;

•

the number of small entities that may be affected by the proposed amendments;

•

whether small entities should be exempt from the proposed amendments;

•

the existence or nature of the potential impact of the proposed amendments on
small entities discussed in the analysis; and

•

how to quantify the impact of the proposed amendments.

Respondents are asked to describe the nature of any impact of the proposed
amendments on small entities and provide empirical data supporting the extent of the impact.
Such comments will be considered in the preparation of the Final Regulatory Flexibility
Analysis, if the proposed amendments are adopted, and will be placed in the same public file
as comments on the proposed amendments themselves.
VIII. STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TEXT OF THE PROPOSED
AMENDMENTS
The amendments contained in this release are being proposed under the authority set
forth in Section 955 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act,
Sections 14, 23(a) and 36(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and
Sections 6, 20(a) and 38 of the Investment Company Act, as amended.
97

List of Subjects in 17 CFR Parts 229 and 240
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
TEXT OF THE PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
For the reasons set out in the preamble, the Commission proposed to amend title 17,
chapter II, of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows:
PART 229 – STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND
ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 – REGULATION S-K
1. The authority citation for part 229 continues to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77e, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77k, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77aa(25),
77aa(26), 77ddd, 77eee, 77ggg, 77hhh, 77iii, 77jjj, 77nnn, 77sss, 78c, 78i, 78j, 78j-3, 78l,
78m, 78n, 78n-1, 78o, 78u-5, 78w, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-8, 80a-9, 80a-20, 80a-29, 80a-30, 80a31(c), 80a-37, 80a-38(a), 80a-39, 80b-11, and 7201 et seq; and 18 U.S.C. 1350, unless
otherwise noted.
2. Amend § 229.402 by adding Instruction 6 to Item 402(b), to read as follows:
§229.402

(Item 402) Executive compensation.

*****
(b) * * *
Instructions to Item 402(b). * * *
6. If the information disclosed pursuant to Item 407(i) would satisfy the registrant hedging
policy disclosure requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(xiii) of this Item, a registrant may satisfy
98

this Item in its proxy or information statement by referring to the information disclosed
pursuant to Item 407(i).
*****
3. Amend § 229.407 by adding paragraph (i) before the Instructions to Item 407, to
read as follows:
§229.407

(Item 407) Corporate governance.

*****
(i) Employee, officer and director hedging. In proxy or information statements with
respect to the election of directors, disclose whether the registrant permits any employees
(including officers) or directors of the registrant, or any of their designees, to purchase
financial instruments (including prepaid variable forward contracts, equity swaps, collars,
and exchange funds) or otherwise engage in transactions that are designed to or have the
effect of hedging or offsetting any decrease in the market value of equity securities—
(1) Granted to the employee or director by the registrant as part of the compensation
of the employee or director; or
(2) Held, directly or indirectly, by the employee or director.
Instructions to Item 407(i).
1. For purposes of this Item 407(i), “equity securities” (as defined in section 3(a)(11) of
the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(11)) and § 240.3a11-1 of this chapter) shall
mean only those equity securities issued by the registrant or any parent of the

99

registrant, any subsidiary of the registrant or any subsidiary of any parent of the
registrant that are registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78l).
2. A registrant that permits hedging transactions by some, but not all, of the categories
of persons covered by this Item 407(i) shall disclose the categories of persons who are
permitted to engage in hedging transactions and those who are not.
3. A registrant shall disclose the categories of hedging transactions it permits and those
it prohibits. In disclosing these categories, a registrant may, if true, disclose that it
prohibits or permits particular categories and permits or prohibits, respectively, all
other hedging transactions. If a registrant does not permit any hedging transactions,
or permits all hedging transactions, it shall so state and need not describe them by
category.
4. A registrant that permits hedging transactions shall disclose sufficient detail to
explain the scope of such permitted transactions.
5. The information required by this Item 407(i) will not be deemed to be incorporated by
reference into any filing under the Securities Act, the Exchange Act or the Investment
Company Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by
reference.
PART 240 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934
4. The authority citation for Part 240 continues to read, in part, as follows:

100

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn,
77sss, 77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m 78n,
78n-1, 78o, 78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a23, 80a-29, 80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, and 7210 et seq.; and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E);
12 U.S.C. 5521(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350; and Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1376, (2010),
unless otherwise noted.
*****
5. Amend § 240.14a-101 by:
a. revising paragraph (b) of Item 7;
b. removing paragraphs (c) and (d) of Item 7;
c. redesignating paragraph (e) as paragraph (c) of Item 7;
d. removing the Instruction to Item 7(e) of Item 7;
e. redesignating paragraph (f) as paragraph (d) of Item 7;
f. redesignating Instruction to Item 7(f) as Instruction to Item 7 and revising newly
redesignated Instruction to Item 7;
g. redesignating paragraph (g) as paragraph (e) of Item 7; and
h. adding paragraph (20) to Item 22(b).
The revisions and addition read as follows:
§240.14a-101 Schedule 14A. Information required in proxy statement.
SCHEDULE 14A INFORMATION
*****
101

Item 7. Directors and Executive Officers. * * *
(b) The information required by Items 401, 404(a) and (b), 405 and 407 of
Regulation S-K (§§ 229.401, 229.404(a) and (b), 229.405 and 229.407 of this chapter),
other than the information required by:
(i) Paragraph (c)(3) of Item 407 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.407(c)(3) of this chapter);
and
(ii) Paragraphs (e)(4) and (e)(5) of Item 407 of Regulation S-K (§§ 229.407(e)(4) and
229.407(e)(5) of this chapter) (which are required by Item 8 of this Schedule 14A).
***
Instruction to Item 7. The information disclosed pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of
this Item 7 will not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities
Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.), the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et
seq.), or the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-1 et seq.), except to the extent
that the registrant specifically incorporates that information by reference.
***
Item 22. Information required in investment company proxy statement.
*****
(b) * * *

102

(20) In the case of a Fund that is a closed-end investment company that is listed and
registered on a national securities exchange, provide the information required by Item 407(i)
of Regulation S-K (§ 229.407(i) of this chapter).
*****

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary
February 9, 2015

103

