UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
June 8, 2004
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11515

In the Matter of

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT
TO SECTION 8A OF THE SECURITIES
ACT OF 1933 AND SECTIONS 15(b)
AND 21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

CHARLES W. CROUSE and
NORMAN R. HESS,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in
the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby
are, instituted pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and
Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against
Charles W. Crouse (“Crouse”) and Norman R. Hess (“Hess”) (collectively referred to as
“Respondents.”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
A.

RESPONDENTS

1.
Crouse, 43, resides in Marietta, Georgia. He has been a registered
representative since May 1992. During the time period of the events discussed herein, Crouse
was a registered representative at a broker-dealer (the “Broker-Dealer”) and holds Series 7 and
63 securities licenses. Crouse left the Broker-Dealer in March 2001 and is currently associated
with another broker-dealer.
2.
Hess, 67, resides in Atlanta, Georgia. Hess was president of the BrokerDealer from 1994 through July 2000 and had overall responsibility for compliance and
supervision at the firm. Hess holds Series 7, 8, 23, 27 and 63 securities licenses and has over
thirty years of experience in the brokerage industry working at many large brokerage firms.

Hess voluntarily left the Broker-Dealer in March 2001 and is currently employed at another
brokerage firm.
B.

MARK DRUCKER’S PONZI SCHEME

1.
In December 1997, Mark Drucker (“Drucker”) opened a brokerage
account (“the Account”) at the Broker-Dealer. His registered representative at the Broker-Dealer
was Crouse. During the relevant period, Drucker operated a Ponzi scheme in which he deposited
approximately $6.3 million of investor funds into the Account.
2.
From at least June 1998 through September 1999, Drucker obtained funds
from investors by representing that he would use their funds to buy and sell securities through an
account at the Broker-Dealer in his name and under his management. Drucker’s investment
strategy consisted of day-trading options and equities in the Account using a momentum
computer program. Drucker told Crouse that he was a dot.com millionaire who had sold
“something to NASA” and had sold a product or concept to Microsoft Corporation.
3.
Most of Drucker’s investors signed management agreements provided by
Drucker allowing him to have “full and complete discretion to invest, trade and make
transactions associated with the Account.” While the terms of the investments varied from
investor to investor, in most cases, Drucker promised guaranteed returns of up to fifty percent
(50%) in ninety days or less. In some instances, Drucker provided investors with agreements
rolling over the original investment and purported profit. These agreements indicated a higher
value of their investments than actually existed.
4.
Contrary to his representations to investors, Drucker was consistently
losing money from his trading. For the thirteen-month period from December 2, 1997 through
December 31, 1998, Drucker lost $225,660 in the Account.
5.
Drucker’s trading, and his trading losses, increased substantially in 1999.
For the nine-month period from January 1, 1999 through September 30, 1999, net losses in the
Account amounted to $634,453. With the exceptions of January and March, the Account lost
money every month in 1999.
6.
Drucker’s trading program was a Ponzi scheme. Drucker’s payments to
investors were funded from deposits into the Account that came from new investors. Drucker
was dependent on money from new investors to keep his scheme operating.
C.

CROUSE’S ASSISTANCE IN FURTHERANCE OF DRUCKER’S PONZI
SCHEME

1.
Crouse knew, among other things, of the Account’s high activity level and
substantial losses. He also knew or was reckless in not knowing that almost all the money
deposited into the Account was coming from checks written by other people to Drucker because
he received copies of all checks deposited into the Drucker Account. Twenty of these checks,
totaling in excess of $500,000, specifically had references to either a “loan,” “investment,”

2

“p’pship invest,” “stock,” or “agreement.” Crouse also knew that Drucker wrote checks out of
the Account to some of the same persons whose checks had been previously deposited into the
Account despite massive losses. Crouse also knew that Drucker was managing the accounts of
other Broker-Dealer customers and that he had lost large amounts of money in some of those
accounts as well. Additionally, Crouse received letters from two of his other customer accounts
at the Broker-Dealer in June 1999 telling him to transfer money into the Account; one letter
stated “He [Drucker] will manage this money from his account.” During that same week, Crouse
assisted Drucker in convincing two people to invest money in the Account. Taken together these
facts showed a scheme by Drucker to defraud investors that Crouse facilitated by either knowing
and permitting it or actively assisting in it.
2.
Crouse substantially assisted Drucker in furtherance of his Ponzi scheme
by executing all trades in the Account and assisting Drucker in convincing at least two investors
to invest in the Account. Crouse knew or was reckless in not knowing that Drucker, his largest
customer, was operating a Ponzi scheme out of the Account.
D.

HESS’S FAILURE TO SUPERVISE CROUSE

1.
Hess was the Broker-Dealer’s President and General Securities Principal. He
was also the immediate and only supervisor of Crouse. The Broker-Dealer’s Supervisory
Procedures and Compliance Manual states that the “General Securities Principal” is responsible “for
the supervision of all general securities representatives and their activities” and “for the daily
review of order tickets and quarterly review of all trading activity.”
2.
Hess reviewed exception reports, which flagged the high level of trading in
the Account, and signed five “active account” letters sent to Drucker regarding the activity in the
Account. Hess also examined the Account’s order tickets on a daily basis, reviewed Crouse’s
commission runs on a monthly basis and active account compliance reports at least three times a
year. As a result of this review, Hess was aware of the Account’s large losses.
3.
In accordance with firm procedure, Hess reviewed monthly statements that
showed checks were being paid to third parties who had previously put money into the Account
despite massive losses. As Crouse’s immediate and direct supervisor, Hess was responsible for
conducting further investigation into whether Crouse was facilitating a violation of the securities
laws. Hess did not discharge his supervisory duties and failed to investigate these “red flags.”
4.
Commissions from the Account were approximately eight percent of the total
commissions received by the Broker-Dealer during the period from October 1998 to September
1999. During this time, the Broker-Dealer served between 2,800 and 3,000 accounts. Commissions
from the Account during this time amounted to one-third of Crouse’s income from the BrokerDealer. Hess also knew that the Account was the Broker-Dealer’s most active during the relevant
time period. During its existence, Hess received an override on the Account of $5,828
5.
Although Hess was aware of the Account’s heavy trading, large losses and
large commissions and knew or was reckless in not knowing of the third-party checks deposited into
the Account, the funds provided to Drucker by third parties for deposit into the Account as well as

3

checks issued out of the Account to third parties who had previously deposited money into the
Account despite massive losses, he did not investigate Crouse’s conduct or take any reasonable
steps to determine whether any illegal activity was occurring in the Account.
6.
In addition, as president of the Broker-Dealer, Hess was ultimately and solely
responsible for establishing supervisory procedures and a system to effectively implement those
procedures. Hess failed to establish a system for implementing the Broker-Dealer’s procedures that
called for review of (a) incoming customer correspondence regarding customer accounts; and (b)
review and approval of third-party checks for deposit into accounts.
7.
Because Hess failed to establish a system to implement these procedures,
Hess and others at the Broker-Dealer failed to detect a pattern of unusual deposits and other unusual
activity such as (a) that virtually none of the deposits into the Account were Drucker’s money; (b)
that several third-party checks were deposited into the Account without appropriate approval as
required by the Broker-Dealer’s policies and procedures; (c) that numerous checks containing
notations such as “loan,” “investment,” “stock” or “agreement” were deposited into the Account;
and (d) that Drucker wrote a number of checks from the Account to third parties who previously
had written checks that were deposited into the Account despite massive losses. In addition, Hess
failed to take action despite the Broker-Dealer receiving, during the first week of June 1999,
correspondence from two of its customers instructing the firm to transfer all assets in their accounts
at the Broker-Dealer to the Account. One of the letters stated that the purpose of the transfer was to
have Drucker manage the customer’s funds. Had Hess implemented an adequate system to review
this correspondence, in light of other red flags concerning this Account, this suspicious pattern of
activity could have been detected and follow up taken, to uncover Drucker’s Ponzi scheme and
Crouse’s facilitation of such scheme.
8.
Had Hess ensured that the Broker-Dealer had a system in place to detect and
take follow-up action in these areas, he could have detected and prevented violations of the
securities laws. Hess’s supervision was deficient as the Broker-Dealer’s supervisory procedures did
not provide for a meaningful review of records that would have alerted Hess and the Broker-Dealer
to potential violations of the securities laws. Because Hess and the Broker-Dealer failed to establish
adequate procedures and a system to implement these procedures, requiring an effective review of
these records and/or an effective system to investigate and address the results of such a review, Hess
and the Broker-Dealer failed to detect that Crouse was facilitating Drucker’s violation of the
securities laws.
9.
Hess did not reasonably delegate responsibility for seeing that the BrokerDealer’s procedures were implemented. As president of the Broker-Dealer, Hess was responsible
for ensuring that the firm had a system in place to implement procedures and that all the procedures
were followed unless and until he reasonably delegated particular functions to another person in the
Broker-Dealer, and neither knew nor had reason to know that such person’s performance was
deficient. Consol. Inv. Serv., Inc., 1994 SEC LEXIS 4045 (Dec. 12, 1994) initial decision has
become final, 52 S.E.C. 582 (1996). Hess never delegated supervisory responsibility to see that
compliance procedures were implemented.

4

E.

VIOLATIONS

As a result of the conduct described above, Crouse willfully aided and abetted and caused
Drucker’s violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in the offer and sale of securities
and in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
As a result of the conduct described above, Hess failed reasonably to supervise Crouse,
within the meaning of Section 15(b)(4)(E) of the Exchange Act, with a view toward preventing
his willful aiding and abetting violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission deems
it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist
proceedings be instituted to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II above are true and, in connection
therewith, to accord Respondents with the opportunity to establish defenses to such allegations;
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against Respondents
pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act including,
but not limited to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act;
and
C.
Whether, pursuant to Section 8A of the Securities Act and Section 21C of the Exchange
Act, Crouse should be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and
any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not later
than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 200 of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by Rule
220 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If either Crouse or Hess fails to file an answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after being
duly notified, they may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be determined against
them upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be deemed to be true as

5

provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17
C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served upon Respondents personally or by certified mail.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an initial
decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of
the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision upon this matter,
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is not
“rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it is not
deemed to be subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any final
Commission action.

By the Commission.

Jonathan G. Katz
Secretary

6

