UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE 

COMMISSION 

Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11818
In the Matter of
BANC OF AMERICA CAPITAL
MANAGEMENT, LLC, BACAP
DISTRIBUTORS, LLC, AND BANC
OF AMERICA SECURITIES, LLC,

:

Respondents.

PROPOSED PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
1.

Background

1.I. On February 9, 2005 the Securities and Exchange Commission
("SEC" or "Commission") entered an order in this proceeding (the "Order").
Among other things, the Order recited that between July 2000 and July 2003: (i)
Banc of America Capital Management, LLC ("BACAP") and BACAP Distributors,
LLC ("BACAP Distributors") "allowed certain market timing clients to engage in
short-term or excessive trading and never disclosed this fact to other investors";
(ii) BACAP and BACAP Distributors "entered into arrangements with two entities,
allowing them to engage in frequent short-term trading in at least 13 Nations
Funds mutual funds ... despite knowing that such trading could be detrimental to
Nations Funds' shareholders"; and (iii) Banc of America Securities, LLC ("BAS")
"facilitated market timing and late trading by some introducing broker dealers and
a hedge fund at the expense of shareholders of Nations Funds and other mutual
fund families." (Order 771-2, 7). As a result, the Commission found that the
Respondents willfully violated the antifraud provisions of the securities laws.
(Order 77116-132). The Order established a Fair Fund consisting of
$250,000,000 in disgorgement and $125,000,000 in civil money penalties, for a
total fund of $375,000,000. That Order required an Independent Distribution
Consultant ("IDC") to develop a plan ("Distribution Plan" or "Plan") for the
distribution of the Fair Fund, "according to a methodology developed by the IDC

in consultation with Respondents and the independent trustees of the Nations
Funds mutual funds and acceptable to the staff of the Commission." (Order
7139(a)).' Shortly after the entry of the Order, Professor Lawrence A.
Hamermesh, Ruby R. Vale Professor of Corporate and Business Law at Widener
University School of Law in Wilmington, Delaware, was appointed as the IDC in
this proceeding.* On February 25, 2005, Respondents deposited the amount of
the Fair Fund ($375,000,000) at the U.S. Treasury for investment in government
obligations. Other than interest from these investments, it is not anticipated that
the Fair Fund will receive additional funds. If such funds are received before
distributions under this Plan have begun, such funds will be distributed by means
of proportionally increasing distributions otherwise provided for in this Plan, or by
such other means approved by the IDC in consultation with the Respondents, the
trustees of the Nations Funds, and the Commission or its staff. After distributions
under this Plan have begun, the Fund will not accept additional funds for
distribution.
1.2. This Distribution Plan is the result of extensive consultation. Among
other efforts, Professor Hamermesh:
Met with Deloitte & Touche to review the analyses it prepared for the
Independent Trustees of the Nations Funds to assist with their evaluation
of the effects of market timing and late trading activity in the Nations
Funds.
Met and spoke with Respondents' economic adviser Lexecon, which has,
at Professor Hamerrnesh's request and under his guidance, managed the
trading data and developed and executed the numerical and financial
analyses of that data.
Retained Professor Erik R. Sirri, professor of finance at Babson College
and former Chief Economist of the Commission, and consulted him, prior
to April 30, 2006, on issues of financial and economic analysis associated
with the development of the Distribution Plan with respect to distributions
to Nations Funds shareho~ders.~

1

The plan of distribution of the Fair Fund is to provide for the distribution of the entire $375 million
fund, including both the disgorgement and penalty portions of the Fund. Order 7139(a).
2

Professor Hamermesh also serves as IDC for the fair fund established under the February 9,
2005 order in In the Matter of Columbia Management Advisors, Inc. and Columbia Funds
Distributor, Inc. (the "Columbia Funds Proceeding"). That proceeding involves a separate fair
fund from the fund established with respect to the Nations Funds. As prescribed in the Order in
this proceeding involving the Nations Funds (7139), Respondents have agreed to pay all
compensation of and expenses incurred by Professor Hamermesh as IDC for the Nations Funds
Fair Fund.
3

Erik Sirri is now Director of the Division of Market Regulation at the Commission. His
consultation with Professor Hamermesh occurred during the period from around March 2005
through March 2006.

1.3. The Fair Fund established by the Order differs from the fair funds
established with respect to other mutual fund families that have settled with the
Commission. Like the other settlement funds, the Fair Fund in this proceeding
addresses trading in the funds for which the Respondents served as adviser and
distributor (the "Nations Funds"); it also addresses, however, trading in many
other fund families, where such trading was found to have been facilitated by
respondent BAS, a registered broker-dealer.
1.4. The preponderance of this trading through BAS was in mutual fund
families that have reached their own settlements with the Commission with
respect to market timing andlor late trading allegations and thus have established
their own fair funds. Mutual funds in such families, which include, for example,
the mutual funds advised by Alliance Capital Management, L.P. (the "Alliance
Funds"), lnvesco Funds Group, Inc. (the "lnvesco Funds"), AIM Advisors, Inc.
(the "AIM Funds"), Massachusetts Financial Services Co. (the "MFS Funds") and
Janus Capital Management LLC (the "Janus Funds"), are referred to in this
Distribution Plan as the "Settling Funds." Some of the trading through BAS was
also in fund families that have not entered into settlements with the Commission
and thus have not established their own fair funds. Mutual funds in such fund
families are referred to in this Distribution Plan as "Nonsettling Funds." The
Settling Funds and the Nonsettling Funds are referred to collectively as the
"Unaffiliated Funds."
11.

Distribution Methodology-In

General

2.1. The methodology for the distribution of the money in the Fair Fund
involves two bases for allocation. First, it is designed to provide compensation
for dilution and related harm to contemporaneous long term shareholders arising
from the trading identified in the Order in the various funds identified in Tables 2
through 4. The term "contemporaneous," as used in this Distribution Plan, refers
to those persons or entities who were fund shareholders at the time of the trading
identified in the Order, regardless of whether such persons continued to hold
fund shares thereafter. Although the duration of such trading varied from fund to
fund, in general the trading in question occurred during the period from 2000
through mid-2003.
2.2. The trading at issue is attributable to specified traders: Canary
Capital Partners, LLC and related entities ("Canary"), TranSierra Capital, LLC
("TranSierra"), and certain introducing brokers with significant mutual fund market
timing clients (the "lntroducing Brokers") who traded through BAS. See Order
7729-54; 82-92.
2.3. In determining dilution and related harm, the effects of all of the
trading by these firms have been assessed; no such trading has been excluded.

2.4. The methodology for determining dilution and related harm from such
trading attempts to estimate, on a daily basis over the course of that trading, the
extent to which a fund's net asset value ("NAV) would have been greater or less
than the actual NAV had that trading not occurred. That difference (where
positive) is the estimate of the dilution and related harm to the contemporaneous
holders of the fund on each of the days on which such trading occurred. The
sum of those daily increments (both positive and negative) represents the
aggregate harm to each fund's shareholders during the period in which timing
trading o ~ c u r r e d . ~
2.5. The second basis for allocating the Fair Fund in this proceeding
involves return, to contemporaneous long term holders of Nations Funds in which
the trading identified in the Order occurred, of advisory and administrative fees
paid to BACAP and BACAP Distributors by those funds during the periods in
which that trading occurred. Order 7762-63. BACAP has acted as a fiduciary for
the Nations Funds. Order 75. Where an advisor grants timing capacity in the
funds that it advises, such a return of fees can be an appropriate use of the
settlement proceeds in the fair funds. See, e.g., In the Matter of Janus Capital
Management LLC., File No. 3-1 1590, Order Instituting Administrative and Ceaseand-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 203(e) and 203(k) of the lnvestment
Advisers Act of 1940 and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the lnvestment Company Act
of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-andDesist Order, lnvestment Advisers Act Release No. IA-2277 (Aug. 18, 2004),
733.
2.6. The aggregate results of the application of the foregoing principles to
both the Nations Funds and the Unaffiliated Funds are summarized in Table 1.
The methods of calculation of each eligible contemporaneous shareholder's
share of the Fair Fund are intended to result in a payment from the Fair Fund to
each such shareholder that restores the impaired value of such shareholder's
investment in a particular fund. The methods of calculation are intended to fairly
estimate the impaired value that each investor has suffered and make a payment
in that amount. In the view of the IDC, these methods of calculation are fair and
reasonable in the context of this case, and result in a fair and reasonable
allocation of the Fair Fund.

111.	

4

Estimation of Dilution and Related Harm to Contemporaneous
Shareholders

There may be instances of accounts for which the effect of timer trading was beneficial (and for
which harm-based compensation would be inappropriate). Because of this possibility, it may also
be the case that the other account holders' share of estimated harm would in the aggregate
exceed the aggregate amount estimated for the fund as a whole. For the Nations Funds, at least,
it appears that such instances are both unusual and small in scope, and are not likely to have a
substantial effect on the ultimate distribution.

A.

Estimating Dilution

3.1. The starting point in estimating the dilution arising from timer trading
is a determination of the net gains realized through that trading. Each timer's
purchases and sales are formed into buy-sell pairs using a last-in, first out
("LIFO") methodo~ogy.~

3.2. For any given mutual fund, if the funds a timer uses to purchase fund
shares ("timer funds") were never invested in risky portfolio assets by the
portfolio manager, timer net gains would accurately measure dilution to
contemporaneous shareholders. To the extent, however, that timer funds were
invested in risky assets, dilution may diverge from timer net gains. Accordingly, it
is necessary to estimate the extent to which portfolio managers invested in (and
sold) portfolio assets in response to timer investment (and sa~es).~
3.3. For each buy-sell pair, the mutual fund's incremental investment in
risky assets (i-e., assets with unpredictable future returns) is estimated by
assuming that a constant fraction of the timer funds is invested in risky assets
each day until either the timer funds are invested or the timer's shares are
redeemed. When the timer's shares are redeemed, the portfolio manager is
assumed to sell risky assets at the same rate to fund the redemption.'

5

Because of the focus on the actual dilutive impact on fund shareholders, aggregate timer gains
and losses in each individual fund are netted through the period in which timer trading occurred.
6

See Greene, Jason T. and Ciccotello, Conrad S., "Mutual Fund Dilution from Market Timing
Trades" (September 27,2004).
7

To implement this approach it was necessary to estimate the constant fraction of timer funds
that are invested each day by the portfolio manager (i.e. the investment rate). To do this
estimation a regression analysis was used. Regression analysis is a statistical procedure
commonly used by statisticians and economists to find the relationship between two variables.
Here, regression analysis was used to find the relationship between the flow of timer money and
the amount of risky assets purchased or sold by the portfolio manager. Since this relationship
may vary by fund, whenever possible a separate regression was performed for each fund. In
cases where it was not possible to perform a separate regression (due to lack of information
specific to a particular fund), a weighted average of the estimates of funds with available data
was used.
A regression analysis can be set up (or "specified") in many different ways. For example, one
might look at the relationship between investment today and flow today. Alternatively, one might
look at the relationship between investment today and flow today and yesterday (under the
assumption that it takes time to invest money so yesterday's flow also influences today's
investment). Many different specifications were tried and the specification that produced the
highest investment rate was used.

The regression analysis used data on flows of money into the Nations Funds and the portfolio
manager investments for the Nations Funds (this data was also used to calculate transaction
costs). To ensure typical portfolio manager behavior was being estimated, extreme observations
(also called outliers) were removed from this data prior to running the regression analysis. In

3.4. To illustrate, take the case where a timer buys 10 fund shares for
$100 on day 1, sells those 10 shares on day 4 for $110, and the estimated daily
average investment rate is 10 percent per day. The model assumes the portfolio
manager invests $10 per day in risky assets on days 2 through 4. Consequently,
before the redemption on day 4, the fund holds $30 of the timer funds in risky
assets and $70 in cash; and immediately after the redemption on day 4, the fund
holds $30 of the timer funds in risky assets and has a cash deficit of $40 (= $70 $1 10). On days 5 through 14, the portfolio manager is assumed to sell $40 of
risky assets at the rate of $4 per day to offset the cash deficit and return the fund
to its previous cash level.
3.5. To estimate the effect of the incremental investment in risky assets,
the fund's profits and losses on the incremental investment are estimated for
each day, and the total effect is the sum of the daily profits and losses. The
effect of the incremental investment each day is estimated as the fund's return
that day multiplied by the incremental investment in risky assets that day. For
example, continuing the previous illustration, the fund's investment in risky assets
is $20 higher on day 3 than it would have been absent the timing activity. If the
fund's return on day 3 was 1 percent, then the investment of the timer funds
benefited the fund's shareholders that day by $0.20 (= $20 * .01); and if the
fund's return on day 3 was -2 percent, then the timing activity harmed the fund's
shareholders that day by $0.40 (= $20 * .02).
3.6. Last, the effects of all incremental investments are summed and
added to the total net profits made by the timers ($10 in this example) to arrive at
an estimate of the total dilution harm to shareholders from the timing activity.'
B.

Estimating Transaction Costs Related to Timer Trading

3.7. The Order states that timer trading may have adversely affected the
funds' NAV's in an additional way, aside from dilution. (Order 719). To the
extent that timer investment and disinvestment resulted in excess portfolio
purchases and sales, the funds may have incurred transaction costs that reduced
their NAV's. Such transaction costs can be estimated by comparing estimated
transaction costs due to the funds' actual inflows and outflows to the estimated
transaction costs that would have occurred had there been no timing activity.
The difference between the two estimates of transaction costs is taken as the
incremental transaction cost attributable to the timing activity.
addition, it was assumed that at least 1% of timer funds was invested each day even if the
regression suggested a lower amount.
8

Timer trading involved in this proceeding largely involved very short holding periods, often just
one day. Therefore, the effect of investment in and disinvestment of risky portfolio assets due to
flows of timer funds is in this case quite small. In the aggregate, dilution using this cash
investment model differs from timer net gains by about 2%.

3.8. For Nations Funds for which the pertinent data are available,
incremental transactions in response to a given inflow or outflow are modeled by
assuming that the portfolio manager invests (or disinvests) in risky assets at the
estimated daily average investment rate until the flow is completely invested (or
disinvested). For each inflow or outflow, this produces a series of daily portfolio
manager investments or disinvestments. To get the net portfolio manager
investment or disinvestment on any given day, all portfolio manager investments
and disinvestments on that day due to all inflows and outflows are summed. In
other words, where there is investment due to previous inflows and disinvestment
due to previous outflows, the investments and disinvestments are netted against
each other for that day. Investments and disinvestments are not netted against
each other across days.
3.9. Transaction costs are estimated from the daily series of net
investments by multiplying the net investment or disinvestment on each day by
the transaction cost per dollar of investment or disinvestment. Total transaction
costs are the sum of the daily transaction costs.
3.10. Transaction costs vary by fund type and time period. Funds are
classified into five fund groups based on their Morningstar classification: U.S.
Large-Cap, U.S. Small-Cap, International, Municipal Bond and Other Bond.
(When a fund's category cannot be identified, the U.S. Small-Cap classification is
used.) Transaction costs (expressed in basis points) for U.S Large-Cap, U.S.
Small-Cap and International funds are equity trading costs calculated by Plexus
Group, Inc. using Plexus Asset Manager client data, and are the sum of
"commissions" and "impact costs." Bond fund transaction costs (expressed in
basis points) are average trading costs for institutional corporate bonds
calculated in Schultz, Paul, 2001, "Corporate Bond Trading Costs: A Peek
Behind the Curtain," The Journal of Finance 56, 677-698 at 677.
C.

Interest

3.11. In order to make compensation on an equivalent basis for losses
spread over time, and to provide appropriate compensation to long-term fund
shareholders, this Distribution Plan contemplates an adjustment for the time
value of the estimated harms. The methodology incorporated in this Distribution
Plan therefore builds in a component of interest on estimates of harm, accruing
from the time of dilution harm through the date of payment into the Fair Fund.
The rate of interest was selected to approximate Bank of America's cost of
unsecured borrowinglg and is estimated by reference to the Merrill Lynch index of
1-3 year A-rated corporate debt over the course of the period in which timer
trading occurred.
9

See Knoll, Michael S. and Colon, Jeffrey M. Colon Miguel, "The Calculation of Prejudgment
Interest" (May 31, 2005).

IV.

Allocation to Contemporaneous Nations Funds Shareholders

4.1. Applying the foregoing analysis to timer trading in the Nations Funds
results in an estimated allocation to contemporaneous holders of those funds of
approximately $19.0 million in respect of dilution and $0.5 million in respect of
transaction costs (as more fully set forth in Table 2).1° In addition to those
amounts, the distribution to such holders includes net advisory and
administration fees earned by BACAP from the affected funds during the periods
in which timer trading in those funds occurred. That additional amount is
approximately $63.4 million, which will be distributed among the Nations Funds
contemporaneous shareholders in proportion to their holdings during the periods
affected by timer trading. Finally, the inclusion of interest on these amounts
results in a total distribution to Nations Funds shareholders of approximately
$89.7 million."
V.

Allocation to Holders in Unaffiliated Fund Families

5.1. The same methodology described earlier for estimating dilution and
related harm is used to arrive at an estimate of such harm to contemporaneous
shareholders of the Unaffiliated Funds. To arrive at this estimate requires the
adoption of assumptions about portfolio manager investment and disinvestment
in response to timer fund flows, and the estimated response derived from Nations
Funds portfolio management is used in the estimate of dilution for the Unaffiliated
~unds.'~

10

For Nations Funds where data on total flows are not available, transaction costs are estimated
using the weighted average ratio of transaction costs to timer buys and sells for the Nations
Funds for which data are available.
11

Due to the relatively small amounts involved, and applying the criteria described in paragraph
6.8 of this Distribution Plan, distributions relating to the Nations Bond Fund, the Nations
Government Securities Fund and the Nations Short-Term Income Fund will be paid directly to the
funds themselves, rather than to contemporaneous shareholders. Application of the criteria
described in paragraph 6.8 of this Distribution Plan may also result in payments to one or more
other funds rather than contemporaneous shareholders.
12

The aggregate dilution calculation is not particularly sensitive to the assumptions concerning
daily average investment rates. Even if that rate were doubled, the aggregate dilution calculation
remains essentially unchanged.

5.2. Estimating transaction costs for the Unaffiliated Funds is affected by
the fact that the IDC did not have access to data for (i) inflows and outflows in
those funds or (ii) investment and disinvestments by portfolio managers for those
funds. Moreover, even if those data had been available to the IDC, given the
number of funds involved it would be impractical to generate transaction cost
models for each of the numerous affected funds.
5.3. This Distribution Plan therefore applies a measure of general
application in estimating transaction costs in the Unaffiliated Funds. That
measure flows from two sources for which the IDC had pertinent data. The first
is the transaction cost model developed for the Nations Funds, where transaction
costs were approximately 2.4% of dilution. The second source is a similar
analysis of transaction costs in the Columbia Funds (where timer trading was
partly known to the funds' advisers, but to a significant extent was not). In the
latter situation, transaction costs ranged from approximately 6% to 10% of
dilution, depending upon assumptions used about daily average investment
rates. Taking these data points into consideration, and noting the ratios of
transaction costs to dilution calculated by other IDCs, this Distribution Plan
measures transaction costs in Unaffiliated Funds at 10% of estimated dilution.
5.4. For Nonsettling Funds, the result of this approach is a total
distribution of $42.2 million, to compensate for harm arising from dilution and
related transaction costs, plus interest. (See Table 4).
5.5. The treatment of Settling Funds is somewhat different, since their
contemporaneous shareholders will likely also be compensated through the fair
funds established by their respective advisers. Much of the timer trading through
BAS covered by the Order in this proceeding is also covered by the orders in
those other proceedings. For example, Alliance, which has a $250 million open
ended fair fund, was found in the Commission order in that matter to have given
Canary a capacity agreement. In re Alliance Capital Management, L.P.,
lnvestment Advisers Act Release No. IA-2205 (Dec. 18, 2003), 7746-52. Canary
traded in the Alliance funds through BAS. Likewise, MFS, which has a $225
million fair fund, was found in the Commission order in that matter to have
allowed frequent trading in eleven funds. In re Massachuseffs Financial Sewices
Co., et al., lnvestment Advisers Act Release No. IA-2213 (Feb. 5, 2004), 79.
Almost all of the trading by Canary and the Introducing Brokers through BAS into
MFS was in those eleven funds.
5.6. The methodology contemplated in this Distribution Plan would treat
allocations to Settling Funds holders in precisely the same way as distributions to
Nonsettling Fund holders, as described above. In other words, the allocation
contemplated under this Plan allocates 100% of estimated dilution and
transaction costs plus interest arising from trading in the Settling Funds identified
in the Order. The total of such allocations is approximately $213.1 million (see
Table 3).

Vl. 	 Administration of the Distribution
A. 	

Allocating the Distributions Among Contemporaneous 

Shareholders. 


6.1. Application of the methodology described above will permit the
calculation of a distribution amount, by date, for each of the funds affected by the
identified timer trading. In turn, an effort will be made to identify each holder of
shares in one or more of those funds during the period affected by timer trading,
and to determine that holder's appropriate allocation of the Fair Fund. There are
a number of difficulties, however, in simply directing payment of those amounts
to those holders. The balance of this Distribution Plan addresses these and
other aspects of implementation and administration of the Plan.
6.2. This Fair Fund is not being distributed according to a claims-made
process, so the procedures for providing notice and for making and approving
claims are not applicable.
6.3. Under the Distribution Plan, there will be no distribution to any of the
persons (Canary, TranSierra, or the clients of the Introducing Brokers) who
engaged in the trading covered by the Order. The aggregate of amounts
excluded on this basis in each fund will be added to the total available for
distribution, increasing proportionally the distribution in respect of that fund.
6.4. Returns on the Fair Fund that have accrued since its establishment in
February 2005 through the date of approval of the Distribution Plan will be
allocated in proportion to the allocation otherwise contemplated under the Plan.
As of May 31, 2007 net interest returns that have accrued to the Fair Fund were
$26.1 million. In the situation where the distribution to contemporaneous holders
of a Settling Fund is to be coordinated with the distribution to be made by the
other IDC, the accrual will be cut off on the date on which the plan of distribution
for that fund is approved by the Commission, and any subsequent accrual on the
distributable amount will be allocated to the holdback amount described in
paragraph 6.13 below.
6.5. In any given fund there will be holders identified for whom the
estimated distribution is so small that it would be impractical and ineffective to
send a check. In general, no distribution of less than $10 will be made. Three
steps will be taken, however, to minimize the number of such de minimis
situations, and maximize the number of individual holders who will be receiving a
distribution: (i) an effort will be made to identify, by common social security
number or other administratively feasible mechanism, instances in which
distribution amounts attributable to an individual shareholder in multiple affected
funds can be aggregated into a single amount in excess of $10; (ii) an effort will
be made to combine distributions with those by lDCs for other Settling Funds

(see paragraph 6.10 below); and (iii) other accounts for which the distribution
would amount to less than $10 will be aggregated, with the resulting sum
distributed in,$lO units to the holders of those accounts, in descending order of
attributable dilution harm.

6. 	 Distributions to Omnibus Accounts, Nonsettling Funds, Network
Level Accounts, and Retirement Accounts.
6.6. (a) For distributions with respect to omnibus accounts (but not for
ordinary trusts, pension plans and 529 plans), it will be necessary to evaluate the
cost associated with commercially reasonable best efforts to identify and
distribute funds to contemporaneous beneficial owners.
(b) If the aggregate amount of the distribution attributable to a
particular omnibus account is $1,000 or more, the account holder will be
contacted in order to determine an appropriate method for distributing the funds
to contemporaneous beneficial owners holding through the omnibus account.
Unless the account holder agrees to distribute the funds to beneficial owners at
its own expense, in accordance with the specifications supplied by or on behalf of
the IDC, the account holder will be asked to estimate the costs of commercially
reasonable efforts to identify and distribute funds to the beneficial owners.
(c) If the aggregate amount of the distribution with respect to an .
omnibus account exceeds such costs, the omnibus account holder will be asked
to elect, within 45 days after notice of the proposed distribution, whether to (i)
supply to the IDC the sub-account information necessary for the IDC to distribute
funds to the beneficial owners, (ii) supply such information to the IDC, who will
calculate the amount of distributions to beneficial owners so that the account
holder can make such distributions itself, or (iii) distribute the funds itself, using
specifications supplied by or on behalf of the IDC as necessary to determine the
appropriate allocation of the funds among contemporaneous beneficial owners
holding through the omnibus account. The omnibus account holder may elect
more than one of these options and apply them differently in respect of different
categories of beneficial owners (such as open accounts and closed accounts). In
any of these three cases, Respondents will reimburse the omnibus account
holder for the reasonable out of pocket costs of gathering and supplying the
necessary sub-account information. If the omnibus account makes no election
within the time specified in this subparagraph, it will be deemed to have elected
to proceed under subparagraph (i) of this paragraph. If and to the extent that the
omnibus account holder elects to proceed under subparagraph (c)(i) or (c)(ii), the
holder shall submit the specified information to the IDC within 90 days after
notice of the proposed distribution.
(d) If the omnibus account holder elects to proceed under
subparagraph (c)(ii) or (c)(iii), the account holder may either send a check to the
beneficial owner or, if the beneficial owner has a current sub-account, credit that
sub-account. Except where the omnibus account holder credits current subaccounts in lieu of sending checks, it will be required to develop and execute a

program similar to the one described in paragraph 7.5(ii) for dealing with
individual distributions of less than $10.
(e) If the aggregate amount of the distribution attributable to a
particular omnibus account is less than either (a) $1,000 or (b) the costs of
commercially reasonable efforts to identify and distribute funds to
contemporaneous beneficial owners, the omnibus account holder will be given
the choice of refusing the distribution or applying any distribution technique, at its
own expense, that the account holder, in the exercise of its reasonable
discretion, deems to be consistent with its fiduciary, contractual or other legal
obligations. If the omnibus account holder refuses the distribution, the otherwise
distributable amount will be added to the holdback described in paragraph 6.13.
(f) For purposes of this paragraph, "commercially reasonable best
efforts" to identify and distribute funds to beneficial owners in omnibus accounts
involve assembly, in appropriate format, of (i) names, addresses and other
necessary identifying information for beneficial owners, and (ii) daily records or
opening account data and subsequent transaction data (or, if such data are
either unavailable or available only at a cost that would otherwise result in the
application of the previous subsection, the most extensive records (monthly,
quarterly or yearly) that are available) necessary to determine each such owner's
fund share balance during the period to which the distribution in question relates.
The foregoing information provided by omnibus account holders shall be
maintained confidentially and held exclusively by Rust Consulting, Inc. ("Rust," or
the "Fund Administrator" appointed pursuant to paragraph 6.14 of this
Distribution Plan), and Respondents shall not have access to that information.
Respondents and the Fund Administrator shall maintain records of efforts made
to obtain the cooperation of omnibus account holders, and of the responses to
these efforts.
(g) If the distribution to an omnibus account holder is less than the
payments to beneficial owners calculated in accordance with the specifications
supplied by the IDC (due to netting at the omnibus account level), the amounts to
be distributed to beneficial owners will be proportionally reduced.
(h) Distributions with respect to omnibus accounts shall be
completed within 180 days after receipt by the omnibus account holder of funds
from this Plan (or, within 180 days after receipt by the IDC of the information
specified in subparagraph (c)(i), if applicable), unless the account holder
demonstrates to the satisfaction of the IDC that good cause exists to extend that
deadline. Omnibus account holders seeking to alter the procedures specified in
this paragraph 6.6 may apply to the Fund Administrator for permission for such
alteration within 90 days of receiving notice of the proposed distribution from the
Fund Administrator, and the IDC will rule on such applications within 60 days
after their submission to the Fund Administrator. The IDC may grant such
applications if the requested alteration would not materially affect the distribution
of funds to the contemporaneous beneficial owners. Paragraph 6.12 of this Plan
shall apply to distributions made by omnibus account holders to beneficial
owners, and the amount of undeliverable or unclaimed payments shall be

returned to the Fund Administrator promptly after conclusion of the six month
period specified in paragraph 6.12.
6.7.
(a) Retirement Accounts. Plan administrators of retirement
accounts shall be required to distribute the monies received under this Plan in
accordance with their fiduciary and contractual obligations, and consistent with
guidance issued by the Department of Labor, if any. "Retirement accounts" as
used in the Plan means any account of an 'employee benefit plan, as such .plans
are defined in section 3(3) of ERISA, which is not an Individual Retirement
Account, whether or not the plan is subject to Title Iof ERISA.'~ Plan
administrators of retirement accounts may distribute the monies received under
this Plan to plan participants in accordance with such participants' account
balances during,the period to which the distribution in question relates, using
balance information on a daily, monthly, quarterly or yearly basis.
(b) Network Level Accounts. Networking firms associated with network
level accounts (i.e., an account that represents one underlying owner but for
which name, address and other necessary identifying information may be
maintained by an intermediary) shall distribute the monies received under this
Plan to the underlying owners of such accounts, and will be asked to elect, within
45 days after notice of the proposed distribution, one of the following two options
for completing such distributions: (i) supplying to the IDC the information
necessary for the IDC to distribute funds to the underlying owners, or (ii)
distributing the funds themselves, using specifications supplied by or on behalf of
the IDC as necessary to determine the appropriate allocation of the funds among
contemporaneous underlying owners. In either option, Respondents will
reimburse the networking firm for the reasonable out of pocket costs of gathering
and supplying the information necessary to distribute funds to the underlying
owners of the network level account. The networking firm may elect more than
one of these options and apply them differently in respect of different categories
of underlyiing owners (such as open accounts and closed accounts). If the
networking firm makes no election within the time specified in this subparagraph,
it will be deemed to have elected to proceed under subparagraph (i) of this
paragraph. Distributions with respect to network level accounts shall be
completed within 180 days after receipt by the networking firm of funds from this
Plan (or within 180 days after receipt by the IDC of the information specified in
subparagraph (i), if applicable). Paragraph 6.12 of this Plan shall apply to
distributions made by networking firms to underlying owners of network level
accounts, and the amount of undeliverable or unclaimed payments shall be
returned to the Fund Administrator promptly after the conclusion of the six month
period specified in paragraph 6.12.
C. Distributions to Nonsettling Funds.

l3
Distributions with

Plan.

respect to Individual Retirement Accounts are governed by Part VI(A) of this

6.8. For distributions with respect to Nonsettling Funds, it will be
necessary to evaluate the cost associated with commercially reasonable best
efforts (as defined in paragraph 6.6) to identify and distribute funds to beneficial
owners (including beneficial owners in omnibus accounts in such funds). Where
the amount to be distributed in respect of a Nonsettling Fund is less than
$1,000,000 (exclusive of interest), the amount will be paid to the fund itself in the
absence of compelling circumstances suggesting a contrary approach. Even
where the amount to be distributed (exclusive of interest) exceeds $1,000,000, it
may be appropriate to distribute the money to the fund itself. Factors to be taken
into account in determining whether the distribution should be to the fund itself,
rather than to its contemporaneous shareholders, include: estimated costs of the
distribution; total assets of the fund; the number of shareholder accounts in the
fund; the amount to be distributed; the extent of turnover among holders of the
fund during the period in which the trading at issue occurred; the number of
shareholders whose distribution would be less than the de minimis amount
prescribed in paragraph 6.5 above; availability of account data; and the potential
for economies of scale if other funds in the same family are to receive a
distribution. The IDC, subject to the concurrence of the Commission's staff, will
retain the discretion to choose the appropriate disposition of funds in the case of
a Nonsettling Fund. If the IDC determines that a distribution should be paid to a
Nonsettling Fund, that fund will have the choice of refusing the distribution,
allocating the distribution to its own portfolio assets, or, at its expense, applying
any distribution technique that the fund, in the exercise of its reasonable
discretion, deems to be consistent with its fiduciary, contractual or other legal
obligations. Where the amount otherwise distributable to a Nonsettling Fund is
less than $50, or where the Nonsettling Fund refuses the distribution, the amount
of the distribution will be added to the holdback described in paragraph 6.13.
D.

Distributions to Settling Funds.

6.9. Distributions in respect of Settling Funds will be handled somewhat
differently than in the case of Nonsettling Funds. In the interest of minimizing
administrative costs and avoiding the confusion to shareholders associated with
multiple and roughly concurrent distributions on account of the same trading, the
preferred approach is to distribute funds directly to the IDC for the Settling Fund,
so that the IDC can combine the two distributions, or to a bank (or other checkwriting entity) that would combine the distributions. Thus, for example, a long
term shareholder of the Alliance Technology Fund whose allocation from this Fair
Fund would be $8 and whose allocation from the Alliance fair fund would be $7
would, instead of receiving nothing, receive a distribution, through cooperation
with the Alliance IDC, of $15. In such a joint distribution, the administrative costs
of the distribution would be shared by Respondents in this proceeding and
respondents in the other proceedings in an equitable manner under the
circumstances, either as agreed to by the Respondents or, absent such
agreement, by the pertinent IDCs.

6.10. ln view of these considerations, this Distribution Plan contemplates
the following categories of treatment of Settling Funds:
(a) Coordinated Distributions. Where the IDC .for the Settling Fund is
making a distribution to contemporaneous holders of the fund and such
holders overlap with the holders to whom a distribution is contemplated
under this Distribution Plan, the aggregate amount of such distribution
under this Plan will be transmitted to the Commission for deposit in the
Fair Fund for the Settling Fund for distribution using one of two
approaches, subject to further coordination and consultation with the other
lDCs and the staff of the Commission. Under the first approach, which
may be used where the distributions under this Plan to a particular fund
are correlated with the distributions to that fund under the other IDC's
plan, the other IDC will proportionally increase his distributions.
Alternatively, where the distributions are not correlated, the other IDC can
combine the allocations (by day, quarter or other period) to that particular
fund with the allocations to that fund under the other IDC's plan. If the
latter approach is employed, in supplying to the other IDC the allocations
within a fund, any negative sub-period allocations will be netted against
the positive allocations nearest in time.
(b) Distribution Under this Plan Only. In the situation where this
Distribution Plan contemplates a distribution to contemporaneous holders
of a Settling Fund to whom the IDC for that Settling Fund is not making a
distribution, the distribution will be made to the contemporaneous holders
using account data supplied by the Settling Fund in question, or will be
paid to the fund itself, subject to the considerations described in paragraph
6.8 above relating to distributions in respect of Nonsettling Funds.
6.11. All of the lDCs for the Settling Funds with respect to which this
Distribution Plan contemplates a distribution to contemporaneous shareholders
have indicated their willingness to participate in a coordinated distribution,
although the precise mechanisms for such coordinated distributions will have to
be developed as the distribution plans are implemented. Appendix B
summarizes the treatment under this Plan of allocations in respect of the Settling
Funds, and in particular it identifies which of those funds is to receive a
distribution under this Plan through the IDC for its fair fund.

E.

Unclaimed Distributions.

6.12. In situations in which distributions are unclaimed (checks not
cashed), or persons to whom a distribution would otherwise be made cannot be
identified or located, the distributable amounts will be paid to the fund to which
the distribution relates. All distributions will be on terms providing that checks not
cashed within six months after distribution shall be void, and the issuing financial

institution shall be instructed to stop payment on those checks or otherwise
assure that payment on such checks is prevented.
F.

Holdback.

6.13. To the extent that the sum of the distributable amounts
contemplated above falls below the total amount of $375 million, that remaining
amount will be held back from initial distribution in order to respond to claims, if
any, by persons asserting entitlement to a distribution that is not contemplated
under this Plan. To the extent that there are no such claims pending one year
following the initial distribution, the unclaimed amount will be paid consistent with
the terms of this Distribution Plan, and as determined by the IDC on notice to
Respondents, the Independent Trustees of the Nations Funds, and the
Commission.

G.

Fund Administrator and Tax Administrator.

6.14. Rust Consulting, Inc. ("Rust"), if approved by the Commission, will
serve as the Fund Administrator of the Fair Fund and will be compensated by the
Respondents. Appendix A to this Plan provides a summary of the qualifications
of the Fund Administrator and other information regarding its administration of
the Plan. The IDC requests that the Commission waive, for good cause shown
(specifically, the facts set forth in Appendix A), the requirement that a bond be
posted pursuant to Rule 1105(c) of the Commission's Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans. Under the supervision of the IDC, Rust will be responsible
for, among other things: overseeing the administration of the Fair Fund,
obtaining accurate mailing information for shareholders, preparing accountings,
cooperating with the Tax Administrator in providing the information necessary to
accomplish the income tax compliance, distributing money from the Fair Fund to
shareholders in accordance with and subject to approval of this Plan, and setting
up and staffing a call center to address shareholder questions or concerns
regarding the distribution. The Fund Administrator will provide customer support
and communications programs which will become active at least by the time the
first distribution occurs. These services will include a toll free number and a
website accessible to the public. The Commission retains the right to review and
approve any material posted on the website. While the distribution is being
implemented, the Fund Administrator will submit to the IDC and the staff of the
Commission an accounting during the first ten days of each calendar quarter,
and will submit a final accounting for approval of the Commission before
termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the Fund Administrator.
6.15. The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates as the Tax
Administrator ("Tax Administrator") of the Fund (Order Directing Appointment Of
Tax Administrator, in the Matter of Certain Disgorgement and Fair Funds in
Administrative Proceedings, Exchange Act Rel. No. 51341, March 9, 2005). The
IDC, Fund Administrator and Respondents will cooperate with the Tax

Administrator in providing information necessary to accomplish the income tax
compliance, ruling and advice work assigned to the Tax Administrator by the
Commission. The Tax Administrator shall be compensated by the Respondents.
H.

Payment of Distributions.

6.16. In order to distribute funds, and promptly after the necessary
information becomes available, the IDC will submit a validated list of payees and
the payment amounts to the assigned Commission staff. The staff shall obtain
authorization from the Commission to disburse funds pursuant to Rule
1101(b)(6), upon staff receipt and acceptance of a validated payment file or list.
It is anticipated that the entire distribution may not be validated at one time. As
and when additional payee distribution information becomes available, the IDC
will submit additional validated lists of payees and payment amounts for
distribution as authorized. In each instance, the payees and amounts will be
validated at the IDC1sdirection by Rust. The validation will state that the list was
compiled in accordance with the Plan and provides all information necessary to
make disbursement to each distributee. Unless otherwise directed by the
Commission, the Commission staff will direct the release of funds to the bank
account established by the Fund Administrator based upon the validated list and
representation by the Fund Administrator that the checks will be issued the next
business day.
6.17. All payments shall be preceded or accompanied by a
communication that includes, as appropriate: (a) a statement characterizing the
distribution; (b) a description of the tax information reporting and other related tax
matters; (c) a statement that checks will be void after 180 days; and (d) the name
of a person to contact, to be used in the event of any questions regarding the
distribution. Any such information letter or other mailing to recipients
characterizing their distribution shall be submitted to the assigned Commission
staff for review and approval. Distribution checks, on their face, or in the
accompanying mailing will clearly indicate that the money is being distributed
from an SEC Fair Fund.
6.18. In implementing the distribution under this Plan, the Fund
Administrator will prepare a "positive pay file" for clearing checks at a bank (the
"Escrow Bank), and will provide that file to the Escrow Bank separately from the
physical checks themselves. The Escrow Bank will be instructed to clear only
checks matching entries in the positive pay file and for the amount in the file.
When checks are printed, a reconciliation report will be provided which lists the
total number of checks and sequenced numbers printed. These totals will be
compared to the total records from the payment file to confirm all checks were
printed. Printed checks will be kept in a secured area until they are mailed and
will generally be printed just in time for mailing. Only authorized individuals will
be allowed access to the check area for printing and performing quality control
procedures. Processing of the mailing of checks will be subject to appropriate

security procedures. For wires, the Fund Administrator will provide the Escrow
Bank with wire transfer instructions signed by both the IDC and an authorized
representative of the Fund Administrator. Wire instructions received by the
Escrow Bank will be reviewed by an administrative employee of the Escrow Bank
for content, required signatures and all necessary data. The administrative
employee will input the instructions into the Escrow Bank's computer system, and
an Officer of the Escrow Bank will compare the computer entries to the original
wire instructions before giving final approval on the transfer.
6.19. If a check is returned as undeliverable, the Fund Administrator will
send the name, current address it has on file, and the tax identification number
for the individuallentity, to a company that has access to credit bureau header
type information. That company will then search for the most current address
available through its proprietary databases, and will then return each record back
to the Fund Administrator. If the returned file contains new addresses for records
where the company has a more current address, with a date that corresponds
with that address, the Fund Administrator will then update its database for
records with better addresses, with a code that notes that the new address was
obtained through a trace process and the date the new address was obtained.
This new address will then become the current address for that record in its
database. The Fund Administrator will not overwrite or delete previous
addresses, which it will maintain in an address history with dates and codes that
identify when an address is used and why an address was updated.
6.20. The Fund Administrator will provide customer support and
communications programs which will become active at least by the time the first
distribution occurs. These services will include a toll free number and a website
to the public. The Commission retains the right to review and approve any
material posted on the website.
6.21
(a). The Fair Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund
("QSF") under Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26
U.S.C.§468B(g), and related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§I .468B-1 through 1.468B5. The assets of the Fair Fund are subject to the continuing jurisdiction and
control of the Commission. The Fair Fund is currently deposited at the U.S.
Treasury Bureau of Public Debt ("BPD"). Upon approval of the Plan, the Fund
Administrator shall establish one or more accounts at the Escrow Bank (i.e.,
Deutsche Bank or such other bank as shall be selected by the IDC and
determined to be acceptable by the staff of the Commission), in the name of and
bearing the Taxpayer ldentification Number of the QSF. Following approval of
the Plan and submission by the IDC of a list of payees and amounts to the
Commission staff, and to the extent necessary to fund payments as and when
contemplated under paragraph 6.16, and unless otherwise directed by the
Commission, the Commission staff shall cause the balance in the Fair Fund to be
deposited in an escrow account established by the Fund Administrator in the
name of and bearing the Taxpayer ldentification Number of the Qualified

Settlement Fund ("QSF account"). The Fund Administrator shall be the signer on
the QSF account, subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of the
Commission. Funds deposited in the QSF account shall remain in that account
until necessary for distribution as provided in this Plan, at which point they shall
be deposited in one or more disbursement accounts established by the Fund
Administrator at the Escrow Bank. The Fund Administrator shall authorize the
Escrow Bank to provide account information to the Tax Administrator. The Fund
Administrator shall use the assets and earnings of the Fair Fund to provide
payments to Investors and to provide the Tax Administrator with assets to pay
tax liabilities and tax compliance fees and costs. The QSF account shall be
invested in direct obligations of the United States Government of a type and term
necessary to meet the cash requirements of the payments to Investors, tax
obligations and fees.
(b) The IDC and the Fund Administrator, andlor each of their designees,
agents and assistants, shall be entitled to rely on any Orders issued in this
proceeding by the Commission, the Secretary by delegated authority, or an
Administrative Law Judge, and may not be held liable to any current or
contemporaneous shareholder of any of the funds, or any of their successor
funds, identified in Tables 1through 4 for any act or omission in the course of
administering the Fair Fund, except upon a finding that such act or omission is
caused by such party's gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct, reckless
disregard of duty, or reckless failure to comply with the terms of the Plan. This
subparagraph (b) is an expression of the current state of the law and is not
intended, nor should it be deemed to be, a representation to an indemnification of
the IDC or the Fund Administrator or their designees, agents and assistants, nor
should this subparagraph (b) preclude the Commission or the QSF from seeking
redress for any act or omission in the course of administering the Fair Fund or
from seeking redress from any insurance or bond provided as set forth in this
Plan.
6.22. The Respondents will pay all fees and costs associated with the
administration of the Distribution Plan, except for tax liabilities of the QSF, which
shall be paid in accordance with Rule 1105(e) of the Commission's Rules on Fair
Fund and Disgorgement Plans.
6.23. The IDC and the Fund Administrator shall use their best efforts to
assure that distribution of payments to investors shall be substantially completed
within 180 days following approval of the Plan by the Commission.
1.

Amendment, Termination and Notices

6.24. The IDC will inform the Commission staff of any material changes in
the Plan, and will obtain approval from the Commission prior to their
implementation. If material changes are required, this Plan may be amended
upon the motion of the Respondents, the Fund Administrator or upon the

Commission's own motion. Under this Distribution Plan the IDC has discretion,
subject again to consultation with the Respondents, the Independent Trustees
and the Commission staff, to make supplemental specifications to the Plan of
Distribution after its approval that are not materially inconsistent with the Plan as
approved.
6.25. The Fair Fund shall terminate effective upon the later of March 30,
2008 or 60 days after the final distribution of funds to investors and the resolution
of uncashed or unclaimed funds and the payment or reserve for taxes and the
final accounting by the Fund Administrator has been submitted to and approved
by the Commission. Before the termination of the Fair Fund, the IDC shall
cooperate with the Tax Administrator to make adequate reserves for tax liability
and for the costs of tax compliance. Upon termination as defined in this
paragraph, all undistributed assets remaining in the Fair Fund, minus any
reserves for tax liability and tax compliance costs, shall be remitted to the United
States Treasury or to such other person or entity as the Commission may direct.
6.26. Notices to be given under the terms of this Plan (other than under
paragraph 6.27) shall be given in writing to:
The IDC, to the following address:
Prof. Lawrence A. Hamermesh 

Widener University School of Law 

4601 Concord Pike 

Wilmington, Delaware 19803 

-- or -

lahamermesh@widener.edu 

The Commission, to the following addresses:
Office of Financial Management 

Securities and Exchange Commission 

Operations Center 

6432 General Green Way 

Alexandria, Stop 0-3, VA 22312 

With a copy to:
Mark Schonfeld 

Regional Director 

New York Regional Office 

Securities and Exchange Commission 

3 World Financial Center 

Room 4-300 

New York, New York 10281-1022 


J. Notice of the Plan
6.27. Notice of this Distribution Plan will be published in the SEC Docket,
on the Commission web site, and on the web site of BACAP (or its successor).
Any person or entity wishing to comment on the Plan must do so in writing by
submitting their comments, within thirty days of the date of the Notice:
1. 	
2. 	

3. 	

to the Office of the Secretary, United States Securities and
Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C.
20549-1090;
by using the Commission's Internet comment form
(www.sec.~ov/liti~ation/admin.shtmI);
or
by sending an email to rule-comments@sec.~lov.

Such comments should include the Administrative Proceeding File
Number (Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11818) in the subject line. Comments received
will be publicly available. Persons should submit only information that they wish
to make publicly available. This Distribution Plan is subject to approval by the
Commission and the Commission retains jurisdiction over the implementation of
the Plan.
Submitted on: July 11,2007

By:
Lawrence A. Hamermesh,
Independent Distribution
Consultant for the Nations Fair
Fund

Appendix A
The Fund Administrator

The Fund Administrator has provided information regarding the Fund Administrator and
its procedures to the IDC for inclusion in this Attachment.
.1. Custody/ Risk Protection

The Plan provides that money from the Qualified Settlement Fund, which is
currently being held in the U.S. Treasury Bureau of Public Debt ("BPD"), would be
transferred to one or more escrow accounts to. be established by the Qualified
Settlement Fund at the Escrow Bank, no more than two business days prior to the date
on which checks would be mailed to shareholders, and that on behalf of the Qualified
Settlement Fund, Rust Consulting, Inc ("Fund Administrator") would manage the printing
and mailing of checks that would be drawn on those escrow accounts, subject to
procedures described below to protect against misappropriation.
The distribution of the Qualified Settlement Fund will take place in multiple steps,
rather than all at once. The monies will be transferred from the BPD to the Escrow
Bank two business days before each of those steps, thus minimizing the amount of time
that the monies are held pending actual distribution to shareholders. The Fund
Administrator contemplates that the steps in the distribution of the Qualified Settlement
Fund will include:
Initial distribution to lDCs for the Settling Funds (MFS, Alliance, etc.).
Distribution of checks to contemporaneous Nations Funds retail holders and
other direct record owners ("direct accountsn)in successive mailings, beginning
with reliablelclear addresses.
Distribution of checks directly to Nonsettling Funds, Settling Funds and Nations
Funds, as described more fully in the Plan.
Distribution of checks to contemporaneous holders of Nonsettling Funds, Settling
Funds and Nations Funds, as described more fully in the Plan.
Distributions to Omnibus Accounts and Network Level Accounts. Monies will not
. be transferred from the Qualified Settlement Fund to the Escrow Bank until the
Omnibus Account or Network Level Account is prepared to complete the
distribution of any payment they receive under the Plan to its Beneficial
Shareholders.
As a result, much less than the full amount of the Qualified Settlement Fund will ever be
in the control of the Escrow Bank andlor the Fund Administrator at any given time.
Once the Fund Administrator has completed calculations for the account holder
distributionaccounts, the IDC will take steps sufficient to satisfy the IDC as to the
accuracy of the Fund Administrator's calculations, including reference to determinations
Page 1 of 3

by Lexecon as to whether its own calculations agree with those of the Fund
Administrator. Once the IDC is satisfied with the accuracy of the calculations, those
calculations will be the basis on which the positive pay file described in paragraph 6.18
of the Plan and ultimately used to control the distribution is generated.

2, Custody Procedures
The Fund Administrator specializes in claims administration and the development
and implementationof plans for the distribution of settlement funds, and has
administered more than 500 cases worth billions of dollars with class sizes ranging from
80 class members to more than 100 million. The Fund Administrator has been in
existence since 1976 and has never had any occurrence of employee or vendor
problems or claims against its Errors & Omissions insurance due to employee theft or
dishonesty. Over the past three years alone, the Fund Administrator has distributed
approximately $1.8 billion in settlement disbursements to approximately 9.6 million
recipients without incident. The Fund Administrator typically oversees the check printing
process and relies on a third-party check-printing vendor.
The Fund Administrator's databases are configured so that modifications can
only be made to data through programs; individuals are not allowed direct access to
underlying production databases. Only designated individuals with security clearances
at the Fund Administrator can access data used in completing the distribution. Ifan
individual has security clearance to make changes in data (e.g., to update an address
through an on-line screen), all original data (e.g., the original address) is automatically
maintained by the Fund Administrator's systems, and the system records the identity of
the individual who made the change. Individuals cannot alter award amounts. Duties
are segregated: award calculations are separate from the preparation of checks, which
is in turn separate from submission of files to a bank, so that no individual or working
team could affect more than one of these processes.
3. Additional Risk Protection

The Escrow Bank, which will hold Plan assets during the check-cashing period,
maintains a Financial Institutions (FI) Bond including errors and omissions coverage
with an aggregate limit of 200 MM Euro. The primary insurer is American International
Group, which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated A+ by A.M. Best. The Escrow
Bank has 200 MM Euro of E&O insurance. In addition, the Escrow Bank has a bankers
blanket bond of 250 MM Euro from Chubb (which is rated A++ by A.M. Best), which the
Escrow Bank has advised the IDC includes coverage for wrongful acts (i.e., an act,
errors and omissions, misstatement, etc.) or failure to safeguard proprietary information
in connection with rendering of professional services. The Fund Administrator has $10
million in E&O insurance, as well as $2 million fiduciary insurance. The Escrow Bank
annually assesses the adequacy of its policy limits through extensive analysis of
historical loss data, exposure to loss and internal company controls.
The Fund Administrator maintains and will continue to maintain until termination 

of Plan, an errors and omissions insurance policy. The primary insurer, Illinois Union 

Page 2 of 3

Insurance Co, is a company which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated A+ by A.M.
Best. The policy is in the amount of $10 million per occurrence. The Fund
Administrator also maintains, and will continue to maintain until termination of Plan, a
fiduciary insurance policy. The primary insurer, St. Paul Companies, is a company
which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated A+ by A.M. Best. The policy is in the
amount ,of $2 million per occurrence. The Fund Administrator's print vendor maintains
and will continue to maintain until termination of Plan, an errors and omissions
insurance policy. The primary insurer, Illinois Union Insurance Co (ACE USA), is a
company which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated A+ by A.M. Best. The policy is
in the amount of $25 million per occurrence. Under the Plan of Distribution, at no time
will there be funds under the custody and control of the Fund Administrator that exceed
the amount covered by insurance, Certificates of insurance for these policies have
been provided to the assigned SEC staff for review and have been deemed "not
unacceptable."
Definitions
"Escrow Bank" means Deutsche Bank or such other bank as shall be selected by the
IDC and determined to be acceptable by the staff of the Commission
"Rust" mean Rust Consulting, Inc., experts in the development and implementation of
plans for the distribution of settlement funds.
"Fund Administrator" means Rust or such other entity as shall be acceptable to the staff
of the Commission.
"Omnibus Account" means an account registered in the name of a broker-dealer or
other financial intermediary which holds shares as the record owner for the benefit of
more than one beneficial shareholder.
"Network Level Account" means an account controlled by a broker where Bank of
America knows the underlying accountls. Certain account information, but not the
identity of the beneficial owner of the account, is maintained on the records of Bank of
America systems but other account information, including the identity of the beneficial
owner of the account, is maintained by the broker of record.

Page 3 of 3

Appendlx B
Dlstrlbutions in Respect of Settllng Funds
Based on communications with the independent distribution consultants
("IDCs") for the Settling Funds identified in Table 2, this Distribution Plan
contemplates that the distributions to contemporaneous holders of those funds
will proceed in accordance with the following framework.

MFS (Prof. John Coates, IDC): Professor Coates, as IDC for the MFS
Funds, is proposing to distribute money from the MFS fair fund to
contemporaneous holders of the following funds identified in Table 2:
Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund; Massachusetts Investors Trust;
and MFS Research Fund. Under this Distribution Plan, the amounts distributable
to contemporaneous holders of those funds will be transmitted to the MFS fair
fund, to be applied in accordance with one of the approaches-specifiedin
paragraph 6.10(a) of this Plan. For the MFS Emerging Growth Fund, as to which
Professor Coates is not making any distribution, the amount distributable to
contemporaneous holders will be distributed to them under this Distribution Plan
using account data to be supplied by respondents in the MFS settlement. Due to
the relatively small amounts involved, the amounts attributable to the MFS Bond
Fund, MFS International Growth Fund, MFS Global Equity Fund, MFS Global
Growth Fund, MFS Government Securities Fund, MFS Growth Opportunities
Fund, MFS Research International Fund and MFS Total Return Fund will
presumptively be paid under this Distribution Plan directly to the funds
themselves, subject to application of the factors identified in paragraph 6.8 of the
Plan.
Alliance (Prof. Marshall Blume, IDC): Professor Blume, as IDC for the
Alliance Funds, is proposing to distribute money from the Alliance fair fund to
contemporaneous holders of the following funds identified in Table 2: Alliance
Growth and Income Fund; Alliance Growth Fund; Alliance Mid-Cap Growth Fund;
Alliance Premier Growth Fund; and Alliance Technology Fund. Under this
Distribution Plan, the amounts distributable to contemporaneous holders of those
funds will be transmitted to the Alliance fair fund, to be applied in accordance
with one of the approaches specified in paragraph 6.10(a) of this Plan. Due to
the relatively small amounts involved, the amounts attributable to the following
funds will presumptively be paid under this Distribution Plan directly to the funds
themselves, subject to application of the factors identified in paragraph 6.8 of the
Plan: ACM International Fund; Alliance Balanced Shares Fund (now
AllianceBernstein Balanced Shares Fund); Alliance Bond Fund; Alliance
Corporate Bond Fund; Alliance Bond Fund, U.S. Government Portfolio; Alliance
Emerging Market Debt Fund (now AllianceBernstein Emerging Market Debt
Fund); Alliance Municipal Income National Fund (now AllianceBernstein
Municipal lncome National Fund); Alliance New Europe Fund (merged into

AllianceBernstein lnternational Fund); and Bemstein RIE Fund (now
AllianceBernstein Real Estate Investment Fund). Because the Alliance Global
Small Cap Fund and the Alliance lnternational Fund are no longer separately in
existence, the amount to be distributed under this Distribution Plan in respect of
those Funds will be included in the holdback amount described in paragraph 6.13
of this Distribution Plan.

RS (Prof. Alan Shapiro, IDC): Professor Shapiro, as IDC for the RS
Funds, is proposing to distribute money from the RS,fair fund to
contemporaneous holders of the following fund identified in Table 2: RS
.EmergingGrowth Fund. Under this Distribution Plan, the amount distributable to
contemporaneous holders of that fund will be transmitted to the RS fair fund, to
.
be applied in accordance with one.of the approaches specified in paragraph
6.10(a) of this Plan.
Columbia (Prof. Lawrence Hamermesh, IDC): For the Liberty Acorn
lnternational Fund (now Columbia Acorn lnternational Fund), the amount
distributable under this Distribution Plan to contemporaneous holders of that fund
will be transmitted to the Columbia fair fund, along with data reflecting daily
calculations of distributable amounts, so that the funds can be combined with the
distributions otherwise being made under that fair fund's distribution plan and be
distributed to contemporaneous holders of that fund. Due to the relatively small
amounts involved, the amounts attributable to the following funds will be paid
under this Distribution Plan directly to the funds themselves, subject to
application of the factors identified in paragraph 6.8 of the Plan: Liberty HighYield Securities Fund (now Columbia High-Yield Opportunity Fund); Columbia
Fixed Income Securities Fund (merged into Columbia Total Return Fund);
Columbia Growth Stock Fund; Columbia High Yield Fund (now Columbia
Conservative High Yield Fund); Columbia lnternational Stock Fund; Columbia
Short Term Bond Fund; Liberty Federal Securities Fund (now Columbia Federal
Securities Fund); Liberty Intermediate Government Fund (merged into what is
now Columbia Federal Securities Fund); Liberty Newport Global Equity Fund
(now Columbia World Equity Fund); Liberty Newport lnternational Equity Fund
(merged into Columbia lnternational Stock Fund); and Liberty Newport Tiger
Fund (now merged into Columbia lnternational Stock Fund).
Federated (Prof. Kenneth Lehn, IDC): Professor Lehn has indicated
agreement with the suggestion that the amounts distributable under this
Distribution Plan to contemporaneous holders of the Federated American
Leaders Fund could be applied in accordance with one of the approaches
specified in paragraph 6.10(a) of this Plan. Altemativelyiif Professor Lehn will
not be making a distribution in respect of that particular fund, the amount could
be distributed to the fund itself or to contemporaneous holders using account
data to be supplied by respondents in the Federated settlement, depending upon
application of.the factors identified in paragraph 6.8 of the Plan. Due to the
,

relatively small amounts involved, the amounts attributable to the following funds
will presumptively be paid under this Distribution Plan directly to the funds
themselves, subject to application of the factors identified in paragraph 6.8 of the
Plan: Federated Equity Income Fund, Federated Kaufrnann Fund and Federated
Max-Cap lndex Fund, Federated Bond Fund; Federated European Growth Fund;
Federated Global Equity Fund; Federated Growth Strategies Fund; Federated
lnternational Equity Fund; Federated lnternational Growth Fund (now Federated
lnternational Capital Appreciation Fund); Federated lnternational Small Company
Fund; and Federated Fund for U.S. Securities.

Franklin Templeton Investments (Hon. Charles B. Renfrew, IDC): Due
to the relatively small amounts involved, the amounts attributable to the following
funds will be paid under this Distribution Plan.directlyto the funds themselves:
Franklin Small Cap Growth Fund II;Franklin US Government Securities Fund;
Templeton Global Opportunities Trust; Templeton Global Smaller Companies
Fund; Franklin Flex Capital Growth Fund; and Templeton World Fund.
Janus Funds (Prof. Chrlstopher James, IDC): For the Janus Adviser
lnternational Growth Fund, Janus Adviser Worldwide Fund, and Janus Mercury
Fund, the amounts distributable under this Distribution Plan to contemporaneous
holders of those funds will be transmitted to the Janus fair fund, to be applied in
accordance with one of the approaches specified in paragraph 6.10(a) of this
Plan. Due to the relatively small amounts involved, the amounts attributable to
the Janus Adviser Capital Appreciation Fund (now Janus Adviser Forty Fund),
Janus Adviser Core Equity Fund, Janus Enterprise Fund, Janus Adviser Global
Value Fund (now Janus Adviser lnternational Value Fund), Janus Risk-Managed
Stock Fund (now Janus INTECH Risk-Managed Stock Fund), Janus World
Global Technology Fund, Janus Worldwide Fund and Janus World Fund U.S.
Short Term Bond Fund will presumptively be paid under this Distribution Plan
directly to the funds itself, subject to application of the factors identified in
paragraph 6.8 of the Plan.
One Group (Prof. Joseph Grundfest, IDC): Due to the relatively small
amounts involved, the amounts attributable to the following funds will be paid
under this Distribution Plan directly to the funds themselves: One Group Equity
lndex Fund (now JPMorgan Equity lndex Fund); One Group lntermediate Bond
Fund (now JPMorgan lntermediate Bond Fund); One Group lnternational Equity
lndex Fund (now JPMorgan lnternational Equity lndex Fund); and One Group
Mid Cap Growth Fund (now JPMorgan Mid Cap Growth Fund).
PBHG Funds (Prof. Kenneth Lehn, IDC): For the PBHG Tech &
Common Fund, PBHG Emerging Growth Fund, and PBHG Growth Fund, the
amounts distributable under this Distribution Plan to contemporaneous holders of
those funds will be transmitted to the PBHG fair fund, to be applied in
accordance with one of the approaches specified in paragraph 6.1 0(a) of this
Plan, or will be paid directly to the fund itself or to contemporaneous holders

using account data to be supplied by respondents in the PBGH settlement,
subject to application of the factors identified in paragraph 6.8 of this Plan. Due
to the relatively small amounts involved, the amounts attributable to the PBHG
Large Cap Value Fund, PBHG Small Cap Value Fund (now Old Mutual TS&W
Small Cap Value Fund) and PBHG Midcap Value Fund (now Old Mutual Mid-Cap
Fund) will presumptively be paid under this Distribution Plan directly to the funds
themselves, subject to application of the factors identified in paragraph 6.8 of the
Plan.

Putnam Funds (Prof. Peter Tufano, IDC): For the Putnam Europe
Growth Fund (now known as Putnam Europe Equity Fund), the amounts
distributable under this Distribution Plan'to contemporaneous holders of those
funds will be transmitted to the Putnam fair fund, to be applied in accordance with
one of the approaches specified in paragraph 6.10(a) of this Plan. Due to the
relatively small amounts involved, the amounts attributable to the Putnam
American Government Income Fund, Putnam Global Equity Fund, Putnam.
lnternational Equity Fund, Putnam lnternational Growth and Income Fund,
Putnam lnternational New Opportunitie$ Fund, and Putnam lnternational (NonU.S. Core Equities) Fund will presumptively be paid under this Distribution Plan
directly to the funds themselves , subject to application of the factors identified in
paragraph 6.8 of the Plan.
Strong Funds (Prof. Michael Gibbons, IDC): Professor Gibbons, as
IDC, is proposing to distribute money from the Strong fair fund to
contemporaneous holders of all of the Strong Funds identified in Table 2 except
the Strong Short-Term Bond Investment Fund. Under this Distribution Plan, the
amounts distributable to contemporaneous holders of those funds will, subject to
application of the factors identified in paragraph 6.8 of the Plan, be transmitted to
the Strong fair fund, to be applied in accordance with one of the approaches
specified in paragraph 6.10(a) of this Plan. Because the Strong Funds are no
longer separately in existence, the amount to be distributed under this
Distribution Plan in respect of the Strong Short-Term Bond Investment Fund will
be included in the holdback amount described in paragraph 6.13 of this
Distribution Plan.
AlMflnvesco (Prof. Gordon Alexander, IDC): For the AIM Euroland
Growth Fund (now AIM European Growth Fund), AIM Global Aggressive Growth
Fund, AIM Dynamics Fund, AIM Advantage Health Sciences Fund, INVESCO
Telecommunications Fund (now AIM Technology Fund) and INVESCO
Technology Fund (now AIM Technology Fund), the amounts distributable under
this Distribution Plan to contemporaneous holders of those funds will be
transmitted to the AlMllnvesco fair fund, to be applied in accordance with one of
the. approaches specified in paragraph 6.10(a) of this Plan, or (to the extent that
the AIMllnvesco distribution plan does not involve distributions to the
contemporaneous holders of thesefunds), such amounts will be paid to the
contemporaneous holders of those funds pursuant to paragraph 6.30(b) of the

Plan, subject to application of the factors identified in paragraph 6.8 of this Plan.
Due to the relatively small amounts involved, the amounts attributable to the AIM
Asia Pacific Growth Fund, AIM Capital Development Fund, AIM Developing
Markets Fund, AIM European Development Fund (now AIM European Growth
Fund), AIM European Small Company Fund, AIM Global Growth' Fund, AIM
International Core Equity Fund, AIM Tax-Free Intermediate Fund, AIM Growth
Allocation Fund, and AIM Small Cap Growth Fund will presumptively be paid
under this Distribution Plan directly to the funds themselves, subject to
application of the factors identified in paragraph 6.8 of the Plan.

PlMCO (Mlchael Koehn, IDC): Due to the relatively small amounts
involved, the amounts attributable to the PlMCO Funds identified in Table 2 will
presumptively be paid under this Distribution Plan directly to the funds
themselves, subject to application of the factors identified in paragraph 6.8 of the
Plan.

Table 1
Bank of America Preliminary Distribution Summary
Dllutlon

Transaction
Corg

Fees

Interest

Totnl

--

Nation~Funds

18,973,656

466,264

63,396,949

67,641,557
44,986,039
19,226,848
32,289,894
2,673,362
11,717,105

6,764,156
4,498,604
1,922,685
3,228,989
267,336
1.171.710

da 

da 

da 

da 

da 

nla 


34,850,550,

3,485.055

da

21,804,800

63,396,949

6,851,878

89,688,747

27,357,474

375,000,000

Unaffiliated Funds
Settling Funds 

Alliance
AlMlInvesco

Janus
MFS
RS
Other

Nonsettling Funds
Appeal Facility I
Additional Fee Return
Total

da

232,359,012

Page 1
06121I06

Bank of America Preliminary Distribution
Nations Funds
Fund FlmUy

NDtim Funds

F-d
Natlar Bond
Natiau Qlibrnia Munidpnl
Natiau Crmva Saa
Nationr h a g hfkm
Nltlau GMI S ~ P
NnUonr Llamcdiato Mvniclprl
Nnim In11Equily
Nniau lull Value
N b LgCp l
t
Nnlau Mpd lndex
NabnM
i lnda
Natbnr M W p l lnsolllo
Naiau Sh-Tm lnc
Na4ians Srmll Co
M o n r SrmllCq I n k
Narlau SrmOr
NSiau Vduc
TDbl

DUutloll

0
123,577
1,735,697
252.407
157384
2€4,881
10,593,591
364.463
81.954
137330
728.63
1.037365
482
2,817,430
292.128
176389
201,539
1&9l3,656

Trupdm

C0rD

568
5.497
67.491
4.559
13.109
11.948
0
8,424
45ml
1,761
7998
41.942
4 0
119,752
44.260

16,591
4.022
466,ZU

Inttrcll

?CO

0
2,950,698
13.356289
118,427
0
6.968.091
6343,463
0

6(2p2
165,959
688M
13.053.lO2
0

14395890
749.572
2,491.127
1.473530
63396,949

0
292315
1.176.788
33,121
14290
421.802
1326.980
34.593
38.679
16.198
73,972
1.651313
42
1505.M6
53.180
133.174
79.726
6,851~

TOW
568
3,372,087
16,336,265
408.514
184,784
7,666,721
18264.433
407.480
808.756
321J49
1570.747
15,784JSl
1.007
18.838.118
1.139.139
2,817.680
1,764,817
89.68E.747

Page 1
06/21/06

Table 3
Bank of America Preliminary Distribution
Settling Funds
~und
AIMmvMSCO

Fund

Dllutlm
68.666

AIMAsLmOmrvUl

~~~~

"*Am m A n o N A
AllianceBdslKad Sh
AlhBdCapBd
A l h Bond U.S. Oovt
A l l i Emg Mlo mbt
AllluuoGlob Sm U p
Alliuuo(hmwth
Ine
Alliuuo M&
AlliursW
Allimct Mdap GI
A l l i M u n i Inc Nul
Alliuuo New
A l l h e FmniiOr
A l I b Tcchndoey
W
A
-lB
BUYTOW

'

Jmvs Advisa Cap App
Jam Advlsa Intl
JAIUS Advisr Worldwide
h.nlrtCo=Bsldty

Juwr harpam
Jans Global Value
Jmmu Mawry
Jnnus Risk Mvugcd SIC& Fund
Janvs World GlobalTech
Jmus Worldwide
I.nur Wrld Sh T m Bod
SubToml

MFS FAMILY OF FUNDS

MFS Bond
msPmsrpingGmw(h
MFS Global Equity

MFS Global (hr,wUI
MPSOovsmmauSca

m-oppa

6.867

Feel

Interat

Tohl

0

425

79,838

4.173
215
7.7%
2.890399
76,597
I20
1234,937
211.423
4206,736
2.5%
864266
2335,946
90.159
2.031.334
149,883
6,062.731
3,827.863

417
21
780'
289,060
7.660
12
123,494
21.142
420.674
260
86.427
2325595
9.016
203.133
14,988
604n3
382.786

0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

543
14
535
34O;MI
9$55
6
137356
17.900
4M.987
185
44,532
1865.109
13307
184,460
37.949
620,255
396345

5,133
250
9.111
3,.519.800
94.112
138
1.495,787
w).*
5.032397
3,'no
995f25
27,446,650
112.482
2418.928
202,820
7,28939
4,606,994

9

W%ffl

0

4#77,7%

.

AIMGlPidbavd0p
AM D~dopineMlm
AIMBumlrndOmunb
AIM Ewc?an h c l o p
AIMPllmprrnSrmllCo
AIMOlobalA~OmMb
AIM Global (iroanh
AIM ]nu -#y
AIM 701-FRChtcrm
WeSCO C m Equity Inv
W E C O DyNniP Fund
INVESCO~Lnv
INVESCO Hullh Sd Inv
INVESCOSdl Co GIhv
lNVE3CO Tds~aamlav
INVESCOTalumbgy F u d
Sub-TOW

TnmueHnn
Caa

.

~ ~ # Z S M

.

Page 2
06/21/06

Table 3
Bank of America Preliminary Distribution
Settling Funds
Fund F8mUy

Fund
MFS Inll Omw(h
MFSM.srlmOrthS&
MFS MgsDIm

MPS RcauFh
MFS M htl
MFS Total Rcbm
Sob-T*M
RSRMDS

COLUMBIA

Cduabi~Plxcd-lncSssr
Cdmbi8 Omwm
Cdmnbia High Yidd Fmd

ColwnblaInU SIC&
CdumbisShm T s m Bond
LmatyhM
Ubaty Fodmlssr
Llbaty l - n d Sca
Llbmylrusmoovl
I r i Nnupat Olb Eq

L I W Nnvpa lnll eq
Libaty Nnupat Tiger
Sub-Tam

FEDERATE0 FUNDS

FRANKLIN TEMPLETON WFSTMPJrS

ONE GROW 	

hornup W Y

Om clnlq hlorm B d
Om Grolp hll @Ida
OmO r q Mid Cap Omw
sub-Totml

PBHG FUNDS 	

PBH k c Cap Val PBH
PBH Smdl Clp Vd PBH
PBH TIFh & Commu~PBH
PEW3 E m ' n s Omwth

mlmnm
329
8,242905
2,915,~n
2,152,844
217,978
216364
322.99W

Trmudlo.
Colb

33
824251
291.~
215284
21.798
21.6%
3.224989

pees
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

Interat

Tot81

23
814.204
176,963
270,643
19.754
16.781
3J93.107.

385
9,880,960
3384334
2,638,772
259.530

255,Ool
38bl1,986

Page 3
06n1106

Table 3
Bank of Ame~icaPreliminary Distribution
Settling Funds

PIMCO FUNDS

FimNACM lnomuirml Fmd
PLmcoRCMGnog(agM81I~eis
PbnsoRCMUlmpsFd
P m RCM Olobd SIC Fund
PimsoSdcd Lllmmdolvl
PMCO 010b.I h w
PIMCO Gnnwh
PMcO ~ i a - W e l d
PlMCO Lg-Tm US Grm
PlMCO lmv Dwtion
PIMCO R d Re Bd
PIMCORCM lNl Gr Eq
PlMcORCMlnUOnvEqy
PMCO Shm-Term
PWcOToulRon~h
sob-Td
~AmaicmClrm
RrmrnbPapsM
RmMa o h l Ppvly
PlmMh M M I QuUy
RmunLnlOmwtb
P u l m htl New Oppod
PLmlPm-lntNor, US Cam Eq

Sub-Tahl
STRONG PlINDS

Tohl For S+fihghn&

Smng M v Mld Clp Gr
s-8
Pdfi.2
S m g Mawvay
s m g Ennrp(rs hv
s m g Intl Smck
Skima Multl Qp V h Fuad
S
~
smngSRBondhlv
Sub-Tohl

~

Q

1'1494,617

~

178S3.481

0

16,6117939

213,076,226

Page 1
06121106

Table 4
Bank of America Prelimjnary Distribution
Nonsettling Funds
h
m
d Qmlly

Plllld

ABN AMRo MI Equity
ABNAMROICtdcsroCrp8d
ABN AMROm(om Bal
ABN AMROm(omag GI

ABN AMRO PUNDS

Sab-TOW

DI1Wm
1.123
10.447
18.393
35.76)
W726

Tnmuttloa
C*dn

Inlaat

Qm

Told

112
1,045
1,839
3,576

0

84

0
0
0

821

2.456
4.794

I320
12312
22.688
44.133

6573

0

41%

80452

0

1.594
1.208
108
2,167
57
1.331
6454

16229
12174
6.239
21350
1,005
13.634

ALGER GROUP

AMERICAN C
Y

INVESIMPm

AmPCcatSMTmm
Amcent Inu Oravthlnv
Amcu4t~Owlnv
AmCQt vba lnv
Snk-Tetd

A M W C A N PUNDS GROUP

-CAN

SKANDIAADVLSOR FUNDS

Ama Purl& ClpWdaOI
AmcrFundsEmvPa
Amer Quads MTm TIE Bd
kna P n & Nnv P m p
Ams Fwdr Nnv World
knaFundr T B Bd Pd
SubTolal

~SknrdiaAsAPWBIntlG7
ASAF AlliurcGr & lnc
ASAF AmCcnl lntl Gr
ASAP Dram LuarutndEp
.A S A F ~ C O E p t y I n c
ASAP Jmus Capllal Gr
ASAPPhdCOTot RmBd
ASAP Smng lntl Eq
Sub-Teal

AMSOUTH FUNDS

ARlEL FUNDS

Arid

Arid A W a t i r m
k i d Remi- Bond Qd

Su&Tot.l

ARK NNDS

ARMADA PUNDS

klC~drncal
~ B ~ C h l p E q w
ARK In(anatlrm1Eq
ARKMidC.pEqity
ARK Sbm-Tm Bd
ARK ShorrTam
SnbTd
-Inups
Sub-Told

13,305
10.060
5,574
17,629
11,184

1330
1.006
557
1.763
86
1.118

0
0
0

54614

5.861

0

862

0

0

70,940

Page 2
06/21/06

Table 4

Bank of America Preliminary Distribution
NonseUling Funds

Fond F m O y
ARTISAN R M D S

BNY -TON

Fund
M i InS.~-TOW

FUNDS

CALVERT GROUP

BNY Hunillon In1 Gw L
BNY Hunilton InU Eq Ls
Sub-Tohl

wvsl world Val Intl
SbTohl

CAPSTOM GROUP

Capsrone S@RV I n m
CspnmcSERV Shn Bnd

SubTohl
CDC m ADVISERS

CDCNvrrleandInc

CDC Nvur SmrSm C q
COC Nvcac Tug&
SubT.(Il

CmZENS FUNDS

CREDIT SUlSSR

hditSulsao~mg0rCan
W i t S n h PiInc
cadit SuLroHI Inc
cadi1 S d r s b b l t l n
cadll s u b b U PI
cadi1 Suiuc h U
CrsdilS~lmlFma
CrrdilSuLPsSm Vd
cI+lt S*
W d m g Plncus
Sub-T-1

DAVlS FUNDS

awin
~~ndnl
Davis lnU Toml Rd
DavisNYven(wc
Davis Oppommily
Sub-TOMI

DELAWARElMrESlheKlS

DwrsCHa ASSFX MANAGE?dEM

WmUm

3‘4m

-

TrMUCnDn

Feu

IMtrt

3272

0

W

o

1.581
191

Total
37577

37,577

Page 3
06/21/06

Table 4
Bank of America preliminary Distribution
Nonsettling Funds
Pond

Fund Pmlly

'

SubTolmI

DODGE &COX FUNDS

395,457

Dodge & Cm lntl St&
SmbToW

EATON VANCE GROUP

ENERPRISE GROUP

EnnrpriscClpl Appcc
EntapriscEquity Inc
Emnpriu(irawlh

Entcrprirc~Blnc
=arpircEnlapicelnu h w t h
EmaprlscSmCoOnvlh
EnmplmSm Co Val
SubTW
E v a m c a Emaginghfka

Evmlnt-Tm ,
E

v

.

m 1nu GmRUl

Ev-

P

e lntl

Evsgrscn S h - hInc

Eve(gsa Slmhm MUPI
E ~ S b n h m c
Evsgrae~U.S Govt

Sub-Total

FIDELITY ADVISOR FUNDS

A&li@ M v m v ln~I
Pldaury AdV Ovaras
Fidelity M v Tah

SubTohl

FIRST AMERICAN FUNDS

DUrb

TMI.rtl0.

Cutl

39542

Pm

Imterut
0

4&=3

Total
481,227

Page4

06t2llO6

Table 4
Bank of America Preliminary Distribution
Nonsettling Funds
Pund Famlb

Fuld

Mluih

mbE@Yldr
Pfrsr Amorlan lntnmcdo
~ntan~~rrml
~ i nAmaian
i
Sub-Total
mRST INVESTORSGROUP

m l n v S d r ) Slt
Sub-TouI

FRPMONT INVESTMENT ADVLSORS

FmnontOlobal
olaupl
~ranont1110
F m m t U.S. Yam
Fmnmt U.S.Smdl Cap

30387
2.744
157.814
193,537

32,021
120,743
97.98

SU~TOW

,

6.623
U7W

TnuxUan
Cmb

.

Fm

lotem

3.039
274
15.781

0
0
0

14)Y

8

3202
12,074
9,796
662
U,f35

0
0
0
0
0

5.454
2M)

Total
38.880
3.219
193CI

19,465
25,369

2U),m

1,494
15.191
I3,7SS
1,312

36,718
148.00s
121.543
8,597

31.786

31-

GABELLI FUNDS

GAM FUNDS

GARTMORE FUNDS

Olmnac Total Rmrm
SUbT*W

GE FUNDS

GOWMAN SACHSASSET MGMT GROUP

GoldmmSlcfis AajOov
aS & A ~
O O I ~ ~vro
Q
Oddma Stcbs InU
00MmslSIchsRclLl

OoMmn SwhsSh Ow
Sub-TOW

GUARDIANFIJNL)s

HARBOR FUNDS

Hmtuc a w A+

HpbaOmwm
HubwMldCapOraMh
Huba Shm Dunion
smb-Told
HARRlS INSIGHT FUNDS

.

135

14

0

51.m
2,683
IN),609
164
3,Ol l

5.181
26a
l5,MI
16
MI

o
o

208.409

20,841

0
0
0
0

8
335s

zw
10.478
14
215
14,274

160.341
3.155
176.147
195
3.528
M%s%

Page 5
061'21106

Table 4
Bank of America Preliminary Distribution
Nonseffling Funds
'

hodF d y
HARTFORD MUTUALFONDS

hJ

H-

~ o n ldnc

HmTordOlobrlLud
HnrlfordOlovlb&k
~dInllOpp
HsrtfordS d Co
&I~-T*w
HERITAGE FAMILY OF FUNDS

Sub-Toml
HIGHMARK FUNDS

Hi.qhM.1 Bond Ed
HiOmwm Ra
&@Maif
InU egty Fid

HlghM.rt Sm Clp Val Ra
6nb-Tow
mEx MUTUAL FUNDS

ING P U R I M GROUP

"AETNA SER WtiD IN
'*PURIM FUNDS T
ING Omwch
IN0 lnlmfKdl& Bond
IN0 Mamfioral
ING Inautiod Or
IN0WISmc.PCnaMh
IN0 b e company Val
h(lCmClp

IN0 Mi@ amMh Fund
IN0 Smrll Capopp
IN0 SmrllClp omwrh Fund
ING W o r l d v r i d e ~
Smb-TIM

IWMACKENZIE MANAGEMENT

Ivy-mOpp
Ivy hotslglionrl
SubTa1

JOHN HANCOCK FONDS

Hao. GOM hmnc
Hen& Ilumutioral
bm*LvBoClpEq
Hm& Mid Cap Orowlh
WmeakPadfie 0nah
~ S m l l C E p E q
H m o x k Smll Clp Or
Sub-Tehl

JP MORGAN FUNDS

JPMafganBondSel
JP Mcfp Weal Or
JPMDynnmic Sm
JP Mororn Flanlng EmoM
JP Morgan Flanig Eur
m M- rnm~ng

Dllntloll
~$16
4351
67.4%
4.546
90,654
60.W
33182

Truucllon
Cub

Fea

Imlerm

302

o

435
6,750
455
9.m

0
0
0
0
0

6,064
33,153

o

42I
61 1
6.120
629
8,492
8,743
ZS.OIS

Totd

4.61a
5,397
8035
5.629
108.216
75.474

nn,mo

Page 6

06/21/06

Table 4

Bank of America Preliminary Distribution
Nonsettling Funds

~snuy

mlrnm

~ l p d

P ~ o r g v~n
l t t el
~

38.532
361,724
27.449
7,869

JPMmSmCsp4
JP M c q m Tax Extznpr Bond
JPMorgvlUSTmlnc
JP M O R G PLM
~ l n t s a n i d 0pp ~ u n d
Sub-Tobl

03~7
8wQ3

Tr~uctbn
Catl

lnttrat

pea

3.853
36.172
2.745
787
8.533
fX4~0

0
0
0
0
0

13,623
781.
14,404

o

0

TOM

4,467
55.391
3.532
795
12.089
111.230

46852
453.287
33.725
9.451
105948
991,453

14,020
624
I4,W

1e.875
9.214

mBAERmTMmPUND6

KEMPERFUNDG

KlNETCS MUIIJAL FUNDS

W A R D FUNDS

~tlad
[no ~ q u i w
W Stru Yield
S8blTomI

UJNGLEAF PAR-

RINDS

LOOMS SAYLES FUNDS

LORD ABBEIT FAMILY OF FUNDS

MAINSTAY FUNDS

MANAGERS FUNDS

MmbrllWly-LCh v
MMbdlCmvtlnclnv
Mad~dllntam Bondlnv
~ l ~ S I k I n v
Mardull MidClp Ol lnv
Mushall M l d a p Val Inv
MmIldl SmCpOllnv
sub-Total
MERCURY FUNDS

Mmill Lynch lnll Value
Sub-Toml

.

1~2n
7609

1u,m

0
0

1 n m

Page 7

06/21/06

Table 4
Bank of America Preliminary Distribution 

Nonsettling Funds 

Fund Family 	

Fund

MORGAN STANLEY 	

%cAVEurpn41~
M~StnlsyLkmWim
MDlpanS P l W SICA
8ubToW

M U N A L SERIES PUNDS

NORTH TRACK F'UNDS	

Nmh TnsL PSE T
Sub-TOW

NORTHEAST M T O R S GROUP 	

Na(hart l n m i o s
Sub-TOW

d

NORTHERN rONDS

Phoenix-AbmNm Asia 

Phoellix-Atadm Id

PlmmixDuffCorcBond 

Phocnix-EnganMPIy

'~lkoenlx4n~~gg0 

? h o m i x - B n ~ Slrvn Cap 

PhPnix-Omdwin Emu# 


sut-TU
PIONEER OROUP 	

Pioncar Amaicp hmmo
Piw~crhnd
Planar Emaginghfks

Plo~aauropc 

Piaaln(l Eq 

P k l n U Value 

Pionm Ta-FKCIno 

Sub-Tehl 


P R w m N D OROUP 	

PIsfsmdPlxrd
Rafarrd htl Val
P m f d Sh-Tam Oovt
8nb-TUII

MlmHm

TllOIYnOO
Colrs

2,600
345.167
1,424,778

260
34.517
142,478

W

1nJsr

W

Intcreat

Pm

0
0
0
0

230
26.W
96.577
123.761

TouI
3,089
406,638
1,663,832
2,073,559

Table 4
Bank of America Preliminary Distribution
Nonseffling Funds
Fund FamOy

PRINCIPALm U A L FUNDS

Fwd
RindplBond
M p l lI d
FthdpllM1dC.p

BllbTohl

~ a l e ~ O n h

RudmtWOovtlnoomc
RudolW Hi-Yidd
PndrmM lnll Value
W t i d PacificGr
F'ludaltid sfr corp Bd
S&ToW
REYNOLDSFUNDS

Rymldr Blue Chip Gnh
SubTeal

RYDEX FUNDS

SAFECOMUNALRINDS

SALOMONBROTHER3 GROUP

SalanonBm AsiaOnh
WomonBmCapltd
SIlmwn Bms HI-Y~ld
Sllmnon Bms lnvaaon
Sllmmn Bms SmCq GI
s.lrmoa Bma U.S. OoM
SalomonB m h a lncrnulmd I?@Q
Bub.Tohl
**SCUDDERDYNAMICGROWTH F
S
~
~
e
O
r
Scuddnlue Chip Fund
Snddor Global Diw
Scuddn GlobalD h
SaddaOlatavoOr
SaddaOmMbFlVd
Scudklnll
ScuakhIpcoOr
S d d a Latin Ama
SaddaLrg Co Val
Sadder Mid Cap Fund
Sadder New Eumpe
Sad&rS&.P 5W kb.
S d d u T d lnnw
Saddcr T~hnology
S ~ D m l dc
m valw
sub-Tohl

Dlhtlm

T n n d m
cor(l

Pea

Ialumt

Tohl

Page 9
06/21/06

Table 4
Bank of America Preliminary Distribution
Nonsettling Funds
Fund ~ d m &

Fund

SecuruTY GROUP

h m i l y ClpllalFnrv

Scadly o l w
SDanftyLwDwonlnc
SebJdy l a l s n a i d
SDaniq Ulm
Smb-Tehl
SEl RINDS

.

SElDllly ONMA
SEl Dally w-DnrGon
.SerDily Sh-DIE GOM
SHI Llldex SBPso0 1dx
SHIlmULfgCqGnh
snL E U Lg Clp Val
SHI h U SmCapGnh
SEl htl S m C q Vdue
S E l W ~ M b
SEllNl~MLL1Dcbt
S U W Eprdv
SEl Tu-Ex LntsmTua
s&-T*cll

SELECW FUNDS

SELlGMAN GROUP

s d i iupiw
s d i i C a n m Smck
Mkb
S d l w bnU@ng
~
Sdignan Frontier
SeligmnGlobll Sm Co
Seligmm hU OI
s e I i i u . s . o o n Ss
Snb-TmM

SENTINEL GROUP

Scntiml Blllneod
Smoid Cohm Smck
Saminl aon sca
Santlnd U d C q Or
Sominel S d l cOmp.0~
Ssaincl W d d
SnbTaW

SlT GROUP

SH Devd@g MLL1Orth
Sit l n b m u i o ~OI m l b
Sil~ClpGmwrh
SilMidgomwth
S i l S d Cspamwth
Sil Tu-Freu Income
Sil U.SOovumnrm Ssr
Sub-Tohl

SSGA FUNDS

STATE S I R E T RESEARCH GROUP

Slab St Rct Anmm
SlabStRcroovInc

DlluUom

TruneHon
Cab

Pea

lntrrat

Total

Page 10
06/21/06

Table 4

Bank of America Preliminary Distribution 

Nonsettling Funds 


STEM ROE MUTUAL FUNDS

Skin Rm l n m Bond
Skin R w I d
8.b-Tepl

ST1CLASSIC FUNDS

SUNAMERICA FUNDS

SwAmarlcaGmwh& Inc
SImAmaiuOmwthOpp
Snn4maiu New Century
SrmAmCriU sm1sd
SlmAmaicaUS Oov S m
S&criunMEq
Sub-ToUI

T. ROWE PRICEFUNDS

T. b e R i a Eq Idx 500
T.RnrrRiocEmStoclr
1.Rows R i a MI SIL
T.hPaeslrpul
T.RoarsRlaN.w k h
Sub-Tohl

TCW OALILEO FUNDS

TCWollilm -0lQ
TCW Gdilm Aaii P h f
TCW o.li1"~pgec.pVI
TCW ollilso Val Oppn(
Sub-Tohl

THE MUiWER FUNDS

Munda Fnm Emag Mkt
Munder P u m Tech
sub-TOpl

TOUCHSTONEFAMILY OF PUND6

TaucbWnclntl Equii
sub-Tohl
nlIwMlkrp0rrm(h

M u Ulm Sh Dur EX IN
~ u l m s l a ~ n
Sub-Total
TW3DYYB R O W COMPANY LLC

Twcdy. BmwneGlob Val
sub-Total

UAM FUNDS

UAM ICM S d l Compuly
Sub-T&l

US BANCORP ASSET MANAGBMEMINC

Pint Amelcan Rslatlva VL
Sub-Td

Page I I
06121106

Table 4
Bank of America Preliminary Distribution
Nonsettling Funds
Fund Fatally
VALUE LINE MUTUAL FUNDS

Pumd
Valuc Line h

c

35.261

VlLr Unc W a l SII
But-TOW
VAN W E N FUNDS

vnnK.mpslAriEg
"MKvnpnEmsgOnh
van b n p m h u g MLD
V n KmQmElm Val Eq
VM K M slob
~~gly
Van KMlpoDGlob Val Eg
Van KampuHigh-Yield
V.nKPnpcrrlntlMwnlm
VMKvnpbLCdMUGov
V~bn~MunidpalInumCl
VM Kmnpm Tshlldogy
SubToPI

VANGUARD GROUP

Vanguard Em Stk I&
V a ~ w uh
d -Tm VS T n
VrnouuaMcrr
Vangmd UdTmTI
V
m Shm-Tm T n
VaWlwd Sh(Tm Fed
VT d InU S k
SmbT0W

VICIORY GROUP

VIQay Balmled
ViQolyLnvd6edS(k
v
i F d~T o r h

vic(myFldF0rlns

viamy Omvm

*

vi*
lncl Qlwch
victny S d l cmnp
viamy spsdsl vnlue
Vle(0ry Slo& lndox
vi*vllue
Sub-Tohl
WBR FLMDS

WELLS FAR00 FUNDS

WM GROUP OF RINDS

DUmm

w d 6 QUgO D ~ w
S rnclp
Welb F p s E~guily Inc
WsUr PppoFur& Tr
Wall6 Fu-go GI Eg
Wells F q o IULarm Q"t
WcUs Fugo InU Eq
wells Fargo sin Clp or
Well6 Fago Sublc lae
Sub-Tohl

41.115
76,376

Tnlpctlmn
Cmb

3526
4.112
7,638

Fen

Interm

0
0
8

4.255
4.980
9235

Total

43,042

M,207
93,249

Page I2
06/21/06

Table 4
Bank of America Preliminary Distribution
Nonsettling Funds
Fund Famlly

.

Pmd

Dlhltlm

TwnMOn
Cmb

loterrsl

Pea

Total

WM lntl e l h
WM Shm Tam Income
WM Snull cap St&
S.bT*W

Toul For Nollatlllng Fun&

34m30

3,485,035

0

381&38

4x19563

