UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 56122 / July 24, 2007
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11393

In the Matter of

:
:
MASSACHUSETTS
:
FINANCIAL SERVICES
:
COMPANY, JOHN W.
:
BALLEN AND KEVIN R.
:
PARKE
:
:
Respondents.
:

ORDER APPROVING
MODIFIED DISTRIBUTION PLAN

I.
On February 5, 2004, in the above-captioned matter, the Commission issued an
Order instituting and simultaneously settling public administrative and cease-and-desist
proceedings against Massachusetts Financial Services Co. (“MFS”), John W. Ballen
and Kevin R. Parke (the “MFS Order”). In the MFS Order, the Commission authorized the
creation of a Fair Fund of $225,629,142.87 in disgorgement and penalties paid by MFS,
Ballen and Parke (collectively “the Respondents”). According to the MFS Order, the
disgorgement and penalties were to be distributed to investors injured by late trading and
other market timing activity in certain MFS retail funds pursuant to a distribution plan to
be developed by an Independent Distribution Consultant (the “IDC”). In April 2004,
MFS selected John C. Coates IV, a Professor of Law at Harvard Law School, to serve as
the MFS Fair Fund’s IDC. On June 13, 2005, the Commission issued an Order
establishing the previously authorized Fair Fund.
On July 24, 2006, the Commission’s Division of Enforcement submitted a
proposed distribution plan to the Commission’s Office of the Secretary (the “Plan”). The
Plan provides for the allocation and distribution of the Fair Fund, including any accrued
interest, to eligible accountholders as compensation for their losses suffered due to late
trading and market timing as well as their proportionate share of advisory fees paid
during the period of such trading activity. The IDC will calculate eligible investors’

proportionate shares of the MFS Fair Fund based on information contained in MFS’s
records, as well as records obtained from third-party intermediaries, obviating any need
for a claims process.
In accordance with the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement
Plans (the “Fair Fund Rules”), 17 C.F.R. § 201.1100, et seq., the Plan proposes a Fund
Administrator and sets forth, among other things, procedures for the receipt of additional
funds; the methodology for allocating distributions under the Plan, procedures for the
administration of the Fund, and provisions for the termination of the MFS Fair Fund.
Rust Consulting, Inc. (“Rust”), proposed in the Plan as the Fund Administrator,
has not posted the bond generally required of third-parties under Fair Fund Rule 1105(c).1
Rather, the Plan incorporates several layers of protection for the MFS Fair Fund. Among
other things, under the Plan: (1) the Fund Administrator will have no custody, and
restricted control, of the Fund; (2) the funds will be held by Treasury until immediately
before transmittal of checks or wires to eligible investors; (3) upon transfer from
Treasury, funds will be held in an escrow account, separate from Bank assets, until
presentation of a check, at which time funds will transferred to a controlled distribution
account; (4) presented checks or wires will be subject to “positive pay” or similar
controls before being honored by the bank; and (5) both the bank and the fund
administrator will maintain, throughout this process, insurance and/or a financial
institution bond that covers errors and omissions, misfeasance, and fraud.
On September 14, 2006, the Commission published the Plan and issued a Notice
of Proposed Distribution Plan and Opportunity for Comment (Exchange Act Release No.
54440A) pursuant to Rule 1103 of the Fair Fund Rules, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1103. The
Notice advised interested parties that they could obtain a copy of the Plan at
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2006/34-54440-pdp.pdf, or by submitting a written
request to Sheila D’Entremont, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 33
Arch Street, 23rd Floor, Boston, MA 02110. The Notice also advised that all persons
desiring to comment on the Plan could submit their comments, in writing, no later than
“October 16, 2002.”2
In response to the Notice, the Spark Institute, Inc. (“Spark”), the Coalition of
Mutual Fund Investors (“CMFI”), and Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. (“Merrill Lynch”)
submitted public comments to the Office of the Secretary. 3 The Commission staff
engaged in subsequent communications with the IDC to discuss the issues that each
1

Based on estimates provided to the staff of the Commission, the cost of a bond could be in the
millions of dollars.

2

The Notice should have read “October 16, 2006.”

3

The Office of the Secretary also received comments from two individuals. The first, received on
September 19, 2006 from MFS shareholder Michael Zabinsky, criticized (1) the size of the MFS
settlement; (2) delays in publishing a distribution plan; (3) the complexity of the Plan; and (4) the IDC’s
conclusion that the MFS Emerging Growth Fund – the fund in which Mr. Zabinsky was a shareholder – did
not suffer any net harm from the improper conduct at issue. The second, received on September 21, 2006
from Ruth Perko, simply requested the Plan be provided to her in another form. The staff did so on
October 2, 2006.

2


commenter raised in its respective letter. In general, the Spark Letter seeks relief on
behalf of intermediaries for non-IRA Retirement Accounts4 eligible for a distribution
under the Plan from time constraints, allocation requirements and costs arising in
connection with distributions under the MFS Plan. The CMFI Letter, written on behalf of
individual mutual fund investors, expresses concern about, among other things, the
procedures by which the IDC will seek individual investor information from omnibus
accounts, as well as how Fair Fund money provided to omnibus accounts will be
distributed. Merrill Lynch’s letter raises questions about, among other things, limitations
on liability and security for data that omnibus accounts may submit to the IDC as part of
the distribution process.
After careful consideration, the Commission has concluded that the Plan should
be approved in accordance with the changes described below in Section II.B. The
Commission has further determined that, for good cause shown, the bond required under
Fair Fund Rule 1105(c) will be waived and that Rust Consulting, Inc. is appointed as the
Fund Administrator.
II.
A.

Public Comments on the Plan
1.

The Spark Letter

The Spark Letter, dated October 16, 2006, is written on behalf of “retirement plan
service providers that will be responsible for reconstructing accountholder balance
information, making certain allocations, receiving distributions, and making distributions
to plan participants who are the intended beneficiaries of a substantial portion of the
distribution at issue.” In its letter, Spark sought (1) clarification of the time retirement
plan service providers have to receive directions from plan sponsors for participant level
allocations; (2) permission to make plan level allocations using a method other than
historical cost balances; and (3) reimbursement for reasonable costs incurred in carrying
out duties prescribed by the Plan. The Commission addresses these issues below.
The MFS Plan provides omnibus accounts, which would include retirement
accounts, with options for how they wish the distributions to be made to beneficial
shareholders. At a minimum, omnibus accounts are provided 45 days from the date of
the MFS Plan’s approval to make their selection. Thus, no retirement account, and no
retirement plan service provider, will receive any funds from the MFS Fair Fund until at
least 45 days after the MFS Plan is approved. Moreover, paragraph 4(a) of the MFS Plan
provides that the “IDC may grant . . . any Omnibus Account or Network Level Account
an extension of any time period” specified in the Plan. The Plan therefore provides
retirement plan service providers sufficient time to contact and receive plan sponsor
instructions.
4

“Retirement Account” as used in the Plan and herein, means any account of an employee benefit
plan, as such plans are defined in section 3(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29
U.S.C. 1001, et seq. (“ERISA”), which is not an Individual Retirement Account, whether or not the plan is
subject to Title I of ERISA.

3


Regarding Spark’s request for permission to make plan level allocations using a
method other than historical cost balances, Paragraph 17.A of the Plan states in part:
If an Omnibus Account is unable to make distributions as contemplated by the
Plan because of operational limitations that make such distribution impracticable
or require expenditures that are disproportionate to the Omnibus Account’s
Distributable Share, such Omnibus Account may . . . notify the IDC in writing.
Such notice will describe the circumstances that prohibit the making of
distributions in accordance with the Plan and will propose an alternative method
of distribution to Beneficial Shareholders of such Omnibus Account. The IDC
will respond to such proposal as soon as is practicable after receiving such notice
and the determination of the IDC shall be controlling.
Thus, the Plan currently permits retirement plan accounts to propose alternative
methodologies to the IDC when either cost or operational difficulties make compliance
with the Plan impracticable. As such, there is no need for the Plan to provide a specific
alternative methodology to the historical account balance information methodology.
Regarding Spark’s request for reimbursement for reasonable costs incurred in
carrying out duties prescribed by the Plan, the MFS Plan provides retirement plans with
options designed to significantly reduce the costs of distribution for retirement plan
service providers. Moreover, MFS has separately agreed that upon request it will
reimburse omnibus accounts the reasonable costs they incur in calculating the amount
that will be distributed to beneficial shareholders, with the IDC serving as the arbiter of
disputes in the event MFS and the omnibus accounts cannot agree.
2.

The CMFI Letter

The CMFI comments are in furtherance of “the interests of individual mutual fund
investors.” In its Comment Letter dated October 16, 2006, CMFI expressed three
concerns related to omnibus accounts: the true level of investment activity is incomplete
without omnibus account data; the procedures for identifying investors and distributing
fair fund monies in omnibus accounts are in need of substantial modification; and the
Plan overly relies on the cooperation of financial intermediaries to obtain identity and
transaction information. The Commission addresses these points below.
CMFI suggests that the Plan should require the MFS Funds to request from
intermediaries, pursuant to Rule 22c-2 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (17
C.F.R. § 270.22c-2) (“Rule 22c-2”), the information currently sought through
cooperation. Rule 22c-2(a)(2) provides that a fund or its principal underwriter or transfer
agent must enter into a written agreement with each financial intermediary of the fund
under which the intermediary must agree to “provide promptly, upon request by a fund,
the Taxpayer Identification Number of all shareholders who have purchased, redeemed,
transferred, or exchanged…,” along with the amount and dates of such transactions.5
Under Rule 22c-2, funds must enter into shareholder information agreements with their
5

See Rule 22c-2(c)(5) (defining “shareholder information agreement”).

4


intermediaries by April 16, 2007, and must be able to request and promptly receive
shareholder identity and transaction information pursuant to shareholder information
agreements by October 16, 2007. See Rules and Regulations Securities and Exchange
Commission, 71 Fed. Reg. 58,257, 58,262 (October 3, 2006). As a result, Rule 22c-2
cannot at this time be used as a means to request investor information from
intermediaries.
CMFI also states that it is difficult to know which trades in omnibus accounts are
market timing transactions because the trading data is aggregated, therefore a better
estimate of market timing gains would result if the IDC evaluates all account data at the
sub-account (i.e., the individual investor) level. However, the MFS Plan’s approach is
reasonable under the circumstances, and CMFI’s proposal does not offer a demonstrably
superior alternative. The IDC already received and analyzed sub-account data from
approximately 80 percent of the omnibus accounts and concluded that applying that data
to the loss model did not result in significant variation from results that did not use sub­
account data. Moreover, obtaining and analyzing the remaining 20 percent of data would
result in additional distribution costs, delays to the distribution process and additional
costs to be incurred by those remaining omnibus account holders in generating and
providing the additional information.6 In addition, there would be no net benefit to
investors overall, as the amount to be distributed is fixed.
CMFI also describes several situations in which an individual investor in an
omnibus account may be treated differently than other investors.7 One concern is that
omnibus accounts may seek to make distributions in a way not contemplated by the Plan
through utilizing paragraph 17.A of the Plan. CMFI asserts that this penalizes investors
who are customers of intermediaries with less than efficient recordkeeping systems.
While some investors may be at a disadvantage as a result of choosing intermediaries
with less efficient systems, the extent of any actual disadvantage is uncertain,
unquantified, and speculative.8
The second situation involves omnibus accounts receiving less than $10,000 to
elect either to make the distributions themselves or do so in another manner they deem
appropriate and consistent with their legal obligations to the beneficial shareholders. The
proposed $10,000 threshold is one of a number of possible reasonable alternatives. The
6

The approximately eighty percent of sub-account data already received came from four primary
omnibus accounts that traded in the relevant MFS funds. To gather the remaining twenty percent of data
would necessitate contacting scores of additional omnibus accounts, some of whom may lack the ability to
collect the additional data easily, if at all.
7

CMFI is concerned that the Plan is “a vastly different approach than other Distribution Plans
released earlier this year, in which the IDC engaged in an ‘outreach process’ to obtain certain omnibus
information.” We disagree. One Plan option calls for the omnibus accounts to provide account data to the
IDC for the IDC to make distributions to omnibus accounts directly, a process similar to the “outreach
process” used in other distribution plans. Moreover, the IDC already in fact received and analyzed sub­
account data from approximately eighty percent of the omnibus accounts eligible to receive distributions
under the Plan.

8

In addition, CMFI is concerned with an intermediary blanketly refusing to accept a distribution on
behalf of its omnibus investors. No provision of the Plan would permit such a refusal.

5


$10,000 threshold is designed to ensure that the costs of distribution remain somewhat in
line with the benefits to be distributed. The Plan still requires omnibus accounts
receiving less than $10,000 to distribute the funds to beneficiaries, but given the small
dollar amount in need of distribution, provides them with a more flexible and cost
effective way of accomplishing that goal.
The third situation involves the $1,000 distribution threshold for omnibus
accounts. CMFI believes that it is possible that investors within a small omnibus account
may be left without a distribution if their total distribution is less than $1,000. The
proposed $1,000 threshold is one of a number of possible reasonable alternatives. The
$1,000 threshold is designed to ensure that the costs of distribution remain somewhat in
line with the benefits to be distributed. While it is conceivable that some omnibus
accounts may indeed have a very small number of beneficiaries, MFS has indicated that
each of the omnibus accounts set to receive distributions are institutional investors,
thereby significantly decreasing the likelihood of such a possibility. Moreover, the Plan
contains a provision that would permit the IDC, in his discretion, to use residual
distributions to gross-up omnibus accounts that fall below the $1,000 threshold.
3.

The Merrill Lynch Letter

Merrill Lynch’s comment letter, dated October 16, 2006, seeks additional
protections for financial intermediaries being required to gather data that is not readily
available; to extend the limitation of liability to include the firms involved in the
distribution of funds and the inclusion of protections related to the transmission of
beneficial owner data. The Commission addresses these points below.
Merrill Lynch requests that the Plan acknowledge that omnibus accounts are
expected to make only commercially reasonable efforts to acquire data that exceeds
applicable record retention requirements. The Plan, however, need not be amended
because it already contains a provision that explicitly permits omnibus accounts to
propose alternative methodologies to the IDC when operational limitations prohibit the
omnibus accounts from complying with the terms of the Plan.
Merrill Lynch also suggests that the Plan contain a clause limiting the liability of
omnibus accounts in facilitating the distributions. Neither the Commission nor the IDC
has authority to expand or contract the liability of financial intermediaries. If a financial
intermediary is subject to any liability, it is as a result of the intermediary’s relationship
with its client.
Finally, Merrill Lynch is concerned that the transmission of client sensitive
information (e.g., name, address, social security number) will expose financial
intermediaries to regulatory and reputational risk if the data is mishandled, disclosed, or
distributed in an unauthorized manner.9 Merrill Lynch suggests that the Plan contain
9

To the extent Merrill Lynch’s comment about regulatory risk refers to the Commission’s
Regulation S-P (17 C.F.R. Part 248), which limits the ability of financial intermediaries regulated by the
Commission to disclose nonpublic personal information to nonaffiliated third parties, Regulation S-P
provides exceptions for disclosures for certain purposes, including:

6


security and confidentiality obligations and indemnification of financial intermediaries
for any misuse or loss of client data. However, the Plan does not require financial
intermediaries to transmit client data to the Fund Administrator; that is necessary only if
such a firm elects to have the Fund Administrator calculate or handle the distribution. In
addition, paragraph 17.C of the Plan already provides in part that the Fund Administrator
shall “keep any information received from each [omnibus account] . . . confidential from
MFS and any other party, except as required by law or as permitted by such [omnibus
account].” Moreover, in one-on-one communications with financial intermediaries, such
firms are free to request that the Fund Administrator enter into a separate confidentiality
agreement.

B.

Modifications

The IDC made the following modifications to the Plan in order to create more
clarity in the distribution process.
• 	 Language was added in ¶2.b to make clear the types of investments that the
escrow bank is permitted to make.
• 	 Paragraphs 9, 16.B and 17.A and assorted exhibits were modified to indicate that
tax disclosure information will be placed on a website, as well as available
through calling Rust.
•	 Because the initial version of the MFS Plan has already been posted on the
Commission’s website, ¶11 was modified to indicate that proofs of possible
entitlement forms or dispute forms must be submitted within 180 days of the
Commission’s approval of the Plan.
• 	 To correct a scrivener’s error, certain references to “Record Owner” in ¶17 were
changed to “Beneficial Shareholder.”

•

To comply with federal, State, or local laws, rules and other applicable legal requirements. See 17
C.F.R. § 248.15(a)(7)(i). For distributions ordered by the Commission, this exception would
cover disclosures of nonpublic personal information necessary for making the distributions.

•	

As necessary to effect, administer, or enforce a transaction that a consumer requests or authorizes,
including if the disclosure is required, or is a usual, appropriate, or acceptable method to
administer or service benefits or claims relating to the transaction or the product or service
business of which it is a part. See 17 C.F.R. §§ 248.14(a), 248.14(b)(2)(ii). In the MFS Plan,
disclosure is arguably required if the financial intermediary elects to have the Fund Administrator
handle the distributions.

Moreover, Regulation S-P also imposes limits on the redisclosure and reuse of nonpublic personal
information. See 17 C.F.R. 248.11. For example, if a financial intermediary subject to Regulation S-P
were ordered by the Commission to transmit nonpublic personal information to a nonaffiliated third party
for purposes of making distributions under the MFS Plan, and the intermediary did so in reliance on an
exception in §§ 248.14 or 248.15, the third party receiving the information could use it only for the purpose
of making the distributions.

7


• 	 Language was added in ¶17.A clarifying that the deadline for omnibus accounts
choosing Option 3 parallels the deadline for those choosing Option 2, and also
that omnibus accounts choosing Option 3, like those choosing Option 2, will be
deemed to have chosen Option 1 if their data is not provided to Rust in time.
• 	 Language was added in ¶17.B clarifying that payments that would have been
made to network level accounts that lack an identifiable beneficial shareholder
must be returned to the MFS Fund for treatment as residual distributions.
• 	 To avoid delays in distribution, language was deleted in ¶¶17.A, 17.B and 17.C
that required omnibus and network level account firms to deliver certifications
prior to receiving a distribution, and also that would have required the same firms
to submit an affidavit verifying that they provided all needed information to the
fund administrator.
• 	 Language was added in ¶17.C to clarify that, in situations where omnibus or
network level accounts consent, Rust may use the data provided by omnibus and
network level accounts in connection with certain aspects of private civil markettiming lawsuit against MFS or its affiliates
• 	 Because certain information related to disqualified beneficiaries may require
some application of judgment, omnibus accounts were granted discretion in ¶18.g
to send a notice to shareholders it believes are disqualified beneficiaries as
opposed to mandating such notice.
• 	 To clarify the limitation of liability clause and the ability of the Commission and
the MFS Fair Fund to seek redress in certain circumstances, modifications and
additions were made to portions of ¶19.
• 	 To make clear the responsibilities for paying distribution costs incurred in
connection with the Plan’s distribution of third party settlement funds and to
clarify, language was added in ¶21 and the definition of “Additional Amounts”.
• 	 Certain changes were made to the Plan exhibits to better reflect the IDC’s current
understanding of the detailed mechanics of the distribution process. Such changes
include:
	

In Plan Exhibits B, C, D, E, F, G(1), G(2) and G(3), adding a
general reference that third party funds may be distributed.

	

In Plan Exhibits F, G(1), G(2) and G(3), adding the concept of
omnibus/networking firms crediting cash management or
brokerage accounts in the retirement account notices.

	

In Plan Exhibits F, G(1), G(2) and G(3), adding in the retirement
account notices the concept of a check being issued to the trustee
or custodian of a retirement account “or any successor trustee or
custodian” so as to potentially eliminate the need to issue a new
check if a custodian or trustee has changed.
8


C.	

	

In Plan Exhibits B and D, making the notices more reader-friendly
by highlighting which funds suffered losses and correcting typos.

	

In Plan Exhibit B, deleting placeholder language requesting wire
transfer instructions so as to reduce the likelihood of receiving
unidentified or unanticipated wire information.

	

In Plan Exhibits B, C, D, E, F, G(1), G(2) and G(3), deleting
placeholder language for a hearing impaired number, as in the fund
administrator’s experience such numbers are rarely, if ever, used.

	

In Plan Exhibit B, adding placeholder language to notify
shareholders that a class action lawsuit against MFS is pending.

The Bond Requirements of Fair Fund Rule 1105(c)
Fair Fund Rule 1105(c) provides:
Administrator to Post Bond. If the administrator is not a Commission
employee, the administrator shall be required to obtain a bond in the
manner prescribed in 11 U.S. C. 322, in an amount to be approved by the
Commission. The cost of the bond may be paid for as a cost of
administration. The Commission may waive posting of a bond for good
cause shown.

17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(c). The Commission believes that the risk protection provisions of
the Plan, generally included in ¶¶2(b) and 2(c) and Annex B of the Plan, and the high cost
of bond coverage, suffice to constitute good cause for waiving the posting of the bond
under Rule 1105(c).
D. 	

Assets from Third Party Settlements

In addition to the approximately $226 million paid into the MFS Fair Fund by the
Respondents in settlement of this matter, in October 2006 the MFS Fair Fund received
approximately $83 million pursuant to a court order in SEC v. Daniel Calugar and
Security Brokerage, Inc., No. CV-S-03-1600-RCJ-RJJ (D.Nev. entered Oct. 16, 2006).
The Plan provides for the allocation and distribution of the MFS Fair Fund, including any
accrued interest, to eligible accountholders as compensation for their losses suffered due
to late trading and market timing as well as their proportionate share of advisory fees paid
during the period of such trading activity. In calculating eligible investors’ proportionate
share of losses, the IDC did not exclude trades conducted by the defendants in Calugar.
As a result and after consultation with the MFS Fair Fund’s Tax Administrator, all funds
received from the Calugar action shall be deemed a return of eligible accountholders’
proportionate share of advisory fees.
Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that:

9


A. Pursuant to Rule 1104 of the Fair Fund Rules, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1104, that the
Distribution Plan is modified as described above, and approved with such
modification;
B. Rust Consulting, Inc. is appointed as the Fund Administrator; and
C. The bond requirement of Rule 1105(c) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund
and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. 201.1105(c), is waived for good cause shown.

By the Commission.
Nancy M. Morris
Secretary

10


EXHIBIT A 

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL


The Order requires a distribution based on (a) “losses” arising out of “late trading” and “other
market timing activity” or (b) to the extent that such losses are less than the Settlement Amount,
advisory fees paid by the Funds for advisory services during the Period. “Losses” have been
estimated for the 11 Funds listed below for the period beginning on the date a Fund began
including certain disclosures relating to MFS’s policies regarding market timing (specified in the
Order) in its prospectus (such dates listed below) and ending on October 31, 2003. The
Settlement Amount is fixed by the Order, and is not affected by estimates of Losses under the
plan. Certain capitalized terms used in this exhibit are defined in Annex A to the Plan.
The Funds consist of:
Five large-cap domestic equity Funds (Equity Funds):
•
•
•
•
•

MFS Emerging Growth Fund (MEG) (Period begins 4/1/00);
MFS Research Fund (MFR) (Period begins 2/1/00);
MFS Value Fund (EIF) (Period begins 1/1/00);
Massachusetts Investors Trust (MIT) (Period begins 5/1/00);
Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund (MIG) (Period begins 4/1/00);

One “blended” fund (60% large-cap domestic equity, 40% bond):
• MFS Total Return Fund (MTR) (Period begins 2/1/00); 

•

Three bond funds (the Bond Funds):
•
•
•

MFS Government Securities Fund (MFG) (Period begins 7/1/99);
MFS Government Mortgage Fund (MGP) (Period begins 12/1/99);
MFS Bond Fund (MFB) (Period begins 9/1/99); and,

Two money market funds (the Money Market Funds):
•
•

MFS Money Market Fund (LMM) (Period begins 1/1/00); and
MFS Cash Reserves Fund (MCM) (Period begins 1/1/00).
I.

Estimated Losses from Frequent Trading

Losses from frequent trading are estimated on a day-by-day basis for each Fund. These
estimated losses (Losses) equal estimated Dilution and Related Losses from Excess Trades plus
estimated Other Losses, each as defined below.
A-1

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT A 

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL

II.

Estimates of Dilution and Related Losses from Excess Trades

Estimates of Dilution Related Losses from Excess Trades equal Net Trading Profits on Excess
Trades plus Net Investment Losses Incurred by the Fund on Excess Trades, each as defined
below.
Excess Trades are all Roundtrip Trades after the third Roundtrip Trade in an Account in a
calendar year.
Roundtrip Trades are defined as exchange purchases and exchange redemptions of Class A
shares of at least $100,000 in any Account matched within 30 days using a last-in, first-out
methodology. For Large Omnibus Accounts, all transactions identified as “buys,” “sells,”
“trades” or “purchases” of Class A shares involving at least $100,000 for each subaccount in the
data provided by the nominal account holders to Consultants were matched with opposite-way
transactions within 30 days using a last-in, first-out methodology.
Accounts are separate individual or institutional accounts as reflected on the books and records
of the Funds, except with respect to Large Omnibus Accounts, for which Accounts are the
separate individual or institutional accounts as reflected on the books and records of the
institution that is the nominal account holder as reflected on the books of the Funds, as provided
by such nominal account holders to Consultants.
Large Omnibus Accounts are the four largest Omnibus Accounts, based on assets as of July 1,
2004.
(1)

Net Trading Profits on Excess Trades

Net Trading Profits equal the Profits realized on Excess Trades during the Period.
More specifically, Net Trading Profits for each Excess Trade equal the sum of (a) the product of
(i) the number of shares involved in the Excess Trade and (ii) the difference between the NAV
on the day of the redemption and the NAV on the day of the purchase plus (b) dividends earned
by the Account during the Excess Trade (i.e., from the date of the purchase through the date of
redemption).
(2)

Net Investment Losses Incurred by the Fund on Excess Trades

Net Investment Losses Incurred by the Fund equal the dollar amount lost by the Fund during and
after Excess Trades on the portion of net cash flows from Excess Trades that are invested in
portfolio securities.

A-2

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT A 

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL


More specifically, Net Investment Losses Incurred by the Fund for each Excess Trade are
estimated as follows:
(a) 	

The average effect of all trades by Accounts that engaged in Excess Trades on a
Fund’s portfolio investments (controlling for the average effect of trades by other
Accounts) over the Period1 is estimated by the following ordinary least squares
regression:
ACPt = a + 	 b1FTCFt +
b2FTCFt-1 +
…
bkFTCFt-k-1 +

c1NFTCFt
+
c2NFTCFt-1 +
…
ckNFTCFt-k-1 + dACPt-k + ε

where ACP means Adjusted Cash Position (as defined below), FTCF means
Frequent Trader Cash Flow (as defined below), and NFTCF means Non-Frequent
Trader Cash Flow (as defined below). Each of these variables is determined on a
daily basis, with subscript “t” equal to the value of that variable on the day in
question, subscript “t-1” equal to the value of that variable on the prior trading
day, and so on.
The number of days included in the model – denoted by “k” in the formula above
– is determined statistically, by examining the results of an F test of the
hypothesis that the coefficient b on each successive day is equal to zero, and
retaining that number of days (up to 22 trading days, roughly one calendar month)
for which the F test rejects that hypothesis, using a confidence level of 95%.2
In addition, an F test was conducted of the hypothesis that the NAV return3 for
day t and t-1 were uncorrelated with the ACP on day t, and the model retains
those controls if the hypothesis is rejected, using a 95% confidence level, and
1

One of the Funds (MTR) changed its asset allocation policy on 1/22/02, and immediately reduced its cash holdings
(from an average of 15% in the prior part of the Period, to about 4% for the rest of the Period). We thus estimate
two sets of coefficients, one for each period, and use those two sets of coefficients for the remaining steps in the
estimation of losses for that fund. None of the other Funds experienced a similar shift in asset allocation policy in
the Period.
2
As sensitivity checks, alternative loss models were also developed to fix the number of trading days included in the
model at 22, 11, and 6 for all funds, with and without controls for prior- and current-day NAV returns. Overall, the
allocation of the losses among the funds was not particularly sensitive to these specifications. As additional
sensitivity checks, alternative models were developed in which the dependent variable was the change in ACP from
the prior day to the day in question; again, the allocation of the losses among the funds was not sensitive to this
alternative specification. Finally, alternative loss models were also developed that identified accounts that engaged
in trades the direction and/or magnitude of which correlated at a high level of statistical significance with after-hours
movements in benchmark indices for the Funds, with a range of controls and specifications. These models will be
used to identify Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries, as described in the Plan.
3
The NAV return for a day is (a) the NAV at the end of that day less the NAV at the end of the prior trading day,
divided by (b) the NAV at the end of the prior trading day.

A-3

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT A
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL

omits those controls if the hypothesis is not rejected. The specific models used
for each fund are as follows:
Fund
MEG

Number of Trading Days
22

NAV controls?
Yes

MIT

22

No

MIG

10

Yes

MFR

22

No

MTR

22

Yes

EIF

22

Yes

MFB

22

No

MFG

21

No

MGP

2

No

Adjusted Cash Position on a given day equals the dollar amount of cash and cash
equivalents held by a Fund, plus the product of (x) any per-share cash dividend
paid on that day and (y) the number of shares outstanding on that day.
Frequent Trader Cash Flow for a given day equals the difference (positive or
negative) between the dollar value of all purchases by Frequent Trading Accounts
(as defined below) on the prior trading day and the dollar value of all redemptions
by Frequent Trading Accounts on the prior trading day.
Frequent Trading Accounts are Accounts that engaged in more than six exchange
purchases or exchange redemptions of at least $100,000 of Class A Shares in a
calendar year, of which at least one was an exchange purchase and at least one
was an exchange redemption.
Non-Frequent Trader Cash Flow for each day equals (a) the prior day’s NAV
multiplied by the difference (positive or negative) between (i) the shares
outstanding of the Fund on the day and (ii) the shares outstanding of the Fund on
A-4

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT A 

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL


the prior day, less (b) Frequent Trader Cash Flow for the day and (c) the product
of any per-share cash dividend paid on the prior day and the number of shares
outstanding on the prior day.
The coefficients on Frequent Trader Cash Flows from the above regression
represent the average percent of Frequent Trader Cash Flows not invested on day
t. To the extent any coefficient is estimated to be greater than one or less than
zero in the above regression, they are adjusted to equal one or zero, respectively.4
If a coefficient is not statistically significant at the 95% level, that coefficient as
well as coefficients for the following days are set equal to zero.5 As so adjusted,
these coefficients (i.e., b1 through b22) are then used to estimate the effect on a
Fund’s investments of all Excess Trades in the Period, as follows:
(b) 	

The period during which the portfolio manager of a Fund responds to each Excess
Trade is divided into two subperiods: the Investment Period and the Divestment
Period. The Investment Period begins on the trading day after the exchange
purchase and ends on the day of the matched exchange redemption. During an
Investment Period it is assumed that the Fund portfolio manager invested a
portion of the cash inflows from that purchase (Frequent Trader Cash In-Flow).
For each day in an Investment Period, the Investment Balance, and the associated
return on that balance, is determined as follows:
•	 At the end of the day of the purchase, zero is invested;
•	 At the end of the first trading day after the purchase, the Investment
Balance equals the Marginal Investment for that day, defined for that day
as the product of the Frequent Trader Cash In-Flow and the difference
between 1 and b1 from the above regression; and,
•	 At the end of each subsequent trading day in the Investment Period, the
Investment Balance equals (a) the Investment Balance at the end of the
previous day, plus (b) the NAV return for that day on the Investment
Balance at the end of the previous day, plus (c) the Marginal Investment
for the current day, defined for each such day as the product of the
Frequent Trader Cash In-Flow and the difference between coefficients bt–1
and bt.
The Divestment Period begins on the trading day after the exchange redemption
and ends on the earlier of (a) the day on which the Investment Balance accrued
over the Investment Period has been completely divested, or (b) n trading days
after the exchange redemption date, where n is defined by the duration of the

4
5

Estimated losses are slightly lower if this adjustment is not made.
Estimated losses are slightly lower if this adjustment is not made.

A-5

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT A 

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL


Excess Trade (i.e., the number of trading days from the purchase date through the
redemption date). During a Divestment Period, it is assumed that the Fund
portfolio manager divested all or a portion of the Investment Balance accrued
during the Investment Period. For each day in the Divestment Period, the
Investment Balance, and the associated return on that balance, is determined as
follows:
•	 At the end of the day of the exchange redemption, the Investment Balance
equals the sum of (a) the Investment Balance at the end of the previous
day, plus (b) the NAV return on the Investment Balance at the end of the
previous day, plus (c) any additional amount invested on that day; and
zero is assumed to have been divested;
•	 At the end of the first trading day after the exchange redemption, the
Investment Balance equals (a) the Investment Balance at the end of the
previous day, plus (b) the NAV return on the Investment Balance at the
end of the previous day, less (c) the Marginal Divestment for that day,
defined as the product of (x) the cash outflows associated with the
exchange redemption (the Frequent Trader Cash Out-Flow) and (y) the
difference between 1 and b1 from the above regression;
•	 At the end of each subsequent trading day in the Divestment Period the
Investment Balance equals (a) the Investment Balance at the end of the
previous day, plus (b) the NAV return on the Investment Balance at the
end of the previous day, less (c) the Marginal Divestment for the current
day, defined for each such day as the product of the Frequent Trader Cash
Out-Flow and the difference between the coefficients bt – 1 and bt.
(c) 	

For each Excess Trade, the return earned by the Fund is equal to the NAV return
earned on the Investment Balance aggregated over all days in the Investment and
Divestment Periods. The Loss Incurred by the Fund is the negative of the return
earned by the Fund for each Excess Trade, so positive returns reduce estimated
losses, and negative returns increase estimated losses.

III.

Estimates of Other Losses

For the Money Market Funds, Other Losses are Transfer Agent Costs. For all Funds other than
the Money Market Funds, Other Losses are the sum of Transfer Agent Costs and Transaction
Costs.
(1) 	

Transfer Agent Costs are the product of the Marginal Transfer Agent Cost per Trade and
the number of Excess Trades. Marginal Transfer Agent Cost per Trade is defined as

A-6

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT A 

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL


follows: $0.50 for Trades via the Internet; $0.30 for Trades via telephone with MFS;
$0.125 for all other Trades.
(2)	

For the Equity Funds, Transaction Costs are the sum of Commissions/Fees and Price
Impact. For the Bond Funds, Transaction Costs equal Commissions/Fees.
(a) 	

For each day, Commissions/Fees represent the commissions and fees that were
paid by the Fund but for the effect of excess trades, and are calculated as follows.
First, for that day, Net Marginal Investments (NMI) equal Marginal Investments
less Marginal Divestments (each as defined above).
Second:
(1) For days on which NMI is positive, the dollar volume of actual
purchases of securities by the portfolio manager (PM) are reduced by the
amount of NMI, and if NMI is greater than actual purchases, then reduce
actual purchases to zero and increase actual sales by the difference
between NMI and the amount of actual purchases. That is, “but-for buys”
are defined as the larger of (a) actual buys less NMI or (b) zero, and “but
for sells” are defined as actual sells plus the larger of (a) zero or (b) NMI
less actual buys, i.e.,
But-for buys = max(actual purchases - NMI, 0)

But-for sells = actual sales + max(NMI – actual purchases, 0)

(2) For days on which NMI is negative, the dollar volume of actual sales
of securities by the PM are reduced by the absolute value of NMI, and if
the absolute value of NMI is greater than the amount of actual sales, then
the amount of actual sales are reduced to zero and the amount of actual
purchases are increased by the difference between the absolute value of
NMI and the amount of actual sales. That is, “but-for sells” are defined as
the larger of (a) actual sales less the absolute value of NMI or (b) zero, and
“but-for buys” are defined as the sum of actual purchases and the greater
of (a) zero or (b) the difference between the absolute value of NMI and
actual sales, i.e.,
But for sells = max(actual sales – abs(NMI), 0)

But for buys = actual purchases + max(abs(NMI) – actual sales, 0)

The amounts of buy-for buys and but-for sales are multiplied by the average of
commissions and fees paid on actual purchases and sales by the PM. The sum of
A-7


US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT A 

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL


the daily differences between actual commissions and fees and the commissions
and fees on but-for buys and sells then represents the amount of
Commissions/Fees estimated to have been caused by excess trades.
(b) 	

For each day, Price Impact is calculated as follows. The amounts of but-for buys
and but-for sales (defined above) are multiplied by the quarterly average “price
impact” estimated for MFS by the Plexus Group for funds managed by MFS with
the same investment style as each of the Funds (“but-for price impact”). The
same price impact estimates are then multiplied by actual purchases and actual
sales (“actual price impact”). The sum of the daily differences between the actual
price impact and the but-for price impact then represents the amount of Price
Impact estimated to have been caused by excess trades.

A-8

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT B
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION NOTICE
IN THE MATTER OF MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO., 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING FILE NO. 3-11393 

Re:

Award of payment from the MFS Qualified Settlement Fund (an SEC Fair Fund)

If you are receiving this notice with respect to an account that is an Individual Retirement Account
(IRA) or is part of a retirement plan, a separate notice is enclosed that addresses issues specific to
those types of accounts. You should also read that notice because it has important information for
you. If your account is an IRA or retirement plan and a separate notice is not enclosed, please call
[toll free number] or see http://www.rust-mfssettlement.com to get a copy of the notice.

Dear MFS Fund Shareholder:
On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order (the
“Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. In connection with
the settlement, an SEC Fair Fund (the “Qualified Settlement Fund”) was established with monies
paid by MFS and two of its officers from which investors in certain funds, whom an independent
distribution consultant (the “IDC”) determined were harmed by late trading and other market
timing trading activity during the relevant period, are to be compensated. Pursuant to a
distribution plan (the “Plan”) developed by the IDC and approved by the SEC after a public
comment period, the IDC has calculated losses incurred by these funds and developed a plan for
distributing the settlement money to eligible investors in the funds identified below (the “Eligible
Funds”) during the period from September 1, 1999 (or in the case of certain Eligible Funds, a
later date) through October 31, 2003 (the “Period”). To the extent that additional amounts from
third party (non-MFS) sources were added to the Qualified Settlement Fund, those amounts will
also be distributed in accordance with the Plan. You are receiving this notice and the enclosed
check because the IDC has determined that you are eligible to receive a payment from the
Qualified Settlement Fund. This check will be cancelled (and you will no longer be entitled
to a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund) if the check is not cashed within one
hundred eighty (180) days after issuance.
The Order applies to the following Eligible Funds: Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund,
Massachusetts Investors Trust, MFS Bond Fund, MFS Cash Reserve Fund, MFS Emerging
Growth Fund, MFS Value Fund, MFS Government Mortgage Fund, MFS Government Securities
Fund, MFS Money Market Fund, MFS Research Fund and MFS Total Return Fund. While the
Order applies to each of the Eligible Funds, the IDC determined that only the Eligible Funds
listed below incurred losses and consequently only certain shareholders of the below listed
Eligible Funds are receiving a distribution under the Plan.
Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Value Fund

B-1

US1DOCS 5606296v8

MFS Government Mortgage Fund
MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund

EXHIBIT B
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION NOTICE
This Notice explains:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Your payment amount
How payment amounts were calculated
Your right to dispute your payment amount and the appeal deadline
Certain Tax Information
Where you can get more information

Special Notice for Financial Intermediaries:
If you are a financial intermediary and hold shares in the Eligible Funds (as defined above) on
behalf of others including Retirement Accounts, you can obtain additional information, including
guidance on how to allocate the distribution from the Qualified Settlement Fund among the
accounts on whose behalf you hold shares, by visiting http://www.rust-mfssettlement.com.
If you are a financial intermediary and receive a distribution on behalf of a Retirement Account
for which you no longer act as a financial intermediary, you are required under the Plan and
Department of Labor Field Assistance Bulletin (“FAB”) 2006-1 to transfer the distribution from
the Qualified Settlement Fund with respect to such Retirement Plan to the new record keeper or
an appropriate fiduciary or, in the case of a terminated plan, to make reasonable efforts to deliver
assets to the plan sponsor or fiduciary. Under the FAB, while you are in possession of the
distribution from the Qualified Settlement Fund, you are deemed to be a plan fiduciary even
though your relationship with the plan has been previously terminated. As a fiduciary to the
plan, you have an obligation to invest the distribution proceeds in a prudent manner until
transferred to the new financial intermediary, plan sponsor or other fiduciary. In your
determination of what would be an appropriate and prudent investment for the distributed assets,
the following investment alternatives are being provided for your consideration when investing
the distribution received from the Qualified Settlement Fund, provided the investment selected
should not be a fund, account or other vehicle investment in which would constitute a nonexempt
prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code: (a) direct
obligations of the United States Government of a type and term necessary to meet cash
requirements for such transfer or delivery, (b) an instrument that qualifies for the safe harbor for
automatic rollovers to individual retirement plans in 29 C.F.R. Section 2550.404a-2 or (c)
another instrument that you determine to be consistent with your fiduciary obligations to the
Retirement Accounts. As a fiduciary to a plan, the responsibility for selecting a prudent
investment is yours. If you receive a distribution with respect to a Retirement Account for which
you no longer act as a financial intermediary, you have an obligation under the FAB to transfer
the distribution to the new recordkeeper, fiduciary or plan sponsor. If you are not able to make
such transfer, you should return such distribution to the Qualified Settlement Fund on the earlier
of (i) 180 days after receipt of the distribution from the Qualified Settlement Fund and (ii) the
date on which you determine that you have satisfied your obligations under the FAB. To return
the distribution, you should contact the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator at 1-xxx-xxxxxxx (toll free). Please also refer to Paragraph 18(a) of the Plan.

B-2

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT B
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION NOTICE

1.

Your payment amount

The payment that the IDC has determined that you are entitled to receive and the account with
respect to which the payment relates are set forth on the enclosed check. If you held of record
another account that invested in an Eligible Fund during the Period, you may receive a separate
check with respect to such account. If you held shares during the Period in an Eligible Fund
through a broker or other financial intermediary, payments from the Qualified Settlement Fund,
if any, would be made through the broker or financial intermediary rather than the Qualified
Settlement Funds Administrator. Not all accounts are entitled to a payment under the Plan. If
you hold another account and do not receive an additional check, the IDC may not have awarded
any payment to that account. Please see “Where you get additional information” below for
information on how to contact the Qualified Settlement Funds Administrator if you have
questions.
2.

How payment amounts were calculated

Payment amounts for all eligible investors from the Qualified Settlement Fund were calculated in
the following way:
First, for each of the 11 Eligible Funds, the IDC estimated losses, if any, for each day of the
Period. The IDC determined that only six of the eleven Eligible Funds incurred losses. As to
each day, the IDC may have determined that the shareholders of an Eligible Fund realized gains
from the activity addressed by the Order. In such circumstances, these gains offset all or part of
the losses allocated to your account in determining the amount of your payment.
Second, each account of record in an Eligible Fund that incurred losses was allocated a dollar
amount for each day in the Period equal to the account value in such account during that day
times the estimated losses for that Eligible Fund for that day divided by the total value of all
accounts on that day. For example, if an account was valued at $10 out of a total asset value of
$1,000 of the MFS Value Fund on July 1, 2000, the account would be entitled to 1% ($10
divided by the $1,000 total asset value) of the MFS Value Fund’s estimated losses for July 1,
2000. If the estimated losses for that date were $1,000, the account’s share would be $10 (1% of
$1,000). An account value was determined by multiplying the number of shares owned by the
Net Asset Value on each day in the Period.
Third, each record account’s losses for each day during the Period (net of any offsetting gains) as
to an Eligible Fund were added together to reach the total payment amount to the account of
record with respect to that Eligible Fund. If you held shares of Eligible Funds through more than
one account, the losses attributable to the different accounts were not aggregated.
Finally, the entire settlement fund is greater than the amount necessary to compensate
shareholders for losses as determined by the IDC. Therefore, you also are receiving a share of
B-3

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT B
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION NOTICE
the excess portion of the Qualified Settlement Fund and, to the extent that additional amounts
were added to the Qualified Settlement Fund from other (non-MFS) sources, a share of such
additional amounts.
Accounts with allocations of less than $10.00 are not receiving a distribution under the Plan.
3.

Your right to dispute your payment amount and the appeal deadline

If you disagree with the amount of your payment, you can appeal to the IDC by filling out a
Dispute Form. To obtain a Dispute Form you should contact the Qualified Settlement Fund
Administrator. See “Where you can obtain more information” below. The Dispute Form must
be postmarked by [day, month, year] and mailed to the following address or your dispute
will be forever barred:
MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator
P.O. Box XXY
Faribault, MN
The decision of the IDC on any appeal is final.
4.

Certain Tax Information

The Tax Administrator of the Qualified Settlement Fund has provided an information statement
characterizing the distribution and describing the federal tax information reporting and material federal
income tax consequences of the distribution. Please see www.____ or call the Qualified Settlement Fund
Administrator for this information statement.
IN ADDITION TO REVIEWING THE INFORMATION STATEMENT, YOU ARE
URGED TO CONSULT YOUR TAX ADVISER WITH RESPECT TO THE SPECIFIC TAX
CONSEQUENCES TO YOU OF RECEIVING THE PAYMENT, INCLUDING THE EFFECTS
OF U.S. FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL AND NON-U.S. TAX RULES AND THE EFFECT OF
POSSIBLE CHANGES IN LAWS THAT MAY AFFECT THE TAX CONSEQUENCES
DESCRIBED IN THE INFORMATION STATEMENT.

5.

Where you can get more information

If you have any questions regarding this notice, you can call the Qualified Settlement Fund
Administrator toll free at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx. To obtain Dispute Forms and special disclosure for
holders of IRAs and administration of retirement plans, you can visit http://www.rust
mfssettlement.com or contact the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator.

--------------------------------------Information About Potential Private Litigation Settlement: You also may be eligible to receive a distribution from the

B-4
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT B
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION NOTICE
proceeds of a potential settlement (the “Potential Private Litigation Settlement”) of private claims that have been or could
have been asserted in various class and derivative lawsuits filed against MFS and others arising from alleged market
timing, late-trading or short-term or excessive trading in mutual funds advised by MFS. It is contemplated that the
Potential Private Litigation Settlement would resolve, among other things, all claims against MFS asserted in the actions
that have been filed in or transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Maryland (the “Court”) and
assigned to the matter captioned In re Alger, Columbia, Janus, MFS, One Group, Putnam, Allianz Dresdner (“In re Alger”),
MDL No. 1586 (D. Md.), including Riggs v. MFS, et al., Civil Action No. 04-cv-01162-JFM (docket number 368 in In re
Alger), Walker v. MFS, et al., Civil Action No. 04-md-01758 (docket number 376 in In re Alger); and Hamerslough v. MFS,
et al., Civil Action No. 04-md01620, (docket number 361 in In re Alger); Reaves v. MFS Series Trust I, et al., Case No. 05
1094 (Mass. Super. Ct.); and Sayegh v. Janus Capital Corp., et al., Case No. BC304655 (Ca. Super. Ct.). As information
about the Potential Private Litigation Settlement becomes available for public release, MFS expects counsel for one or
more of the plaintiffs in the private actions referenced above to post information on the internet about the status of the
potential settlement – including information about how to register to receive additional information (or “Notice”) concerning
the Potential Private Litigation Settlement that may be authorized by the Court. The website is www._____.____. The
Potential Private Action Settlement remains subject to, among other things, completion of a definitive settlement
agreement and judicial approval by the Court. Any Notice authorized by the Court concerning the Potential Private
Litigation Settlement will contain important information concerning your rights. To help ensure that you receive a copy of
any Court-authorized Notice, you should register to receive any Notice or additional information by following the directions
at the website above ( www._____.____) or by calling the following toll-free number: (xxx) abc-defg.

B-5
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
IN THE MATTER OF MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO.,
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING FILE NO. 3-11393
General Information
THIS FORM SHOULD BE USED IF YOU BELIEVE THAT YOU ARE ENTITLED TO
A PAYMENT FROM THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND BUT THE QUALIFIED
SETTLEMENT FUND ADMINISTRATOR HAS NOT SENT YOU A CHECK. DO NOT
COMPLETE THIS FORM IF YOU HAVE RECEIVED A CHECK FROM THE
ADMINISTRATOR OF THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT. IF YOU RECEIVED A
CHECK BUT DISAGREE WITH THE AMOUNT, YOU SHOULD COMPLETE THE
“DISPUTE FORM” WHICH IS AVAILABLE BY CALLING THE ADMINISTRATOR
OF THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND AT 1-xxx-xxx-xxx OR AT http://www.rust
mfssettlement.com.
IF YOU HELD SHARES IN ONE OF THE ELIGIBLE MFS FUNDS THROUGH A 

BROKER OR OTHER FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY AND BELIEVE YOU ARE 

ENTITLED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE DISTRIBUTION FROM THE QUALIFIED 

SETTLEMENT FUND, YOU SHOULD CONTACT YOUR BROKER RATHER THAN 

COMPLETING THIS FORM. 

ONLY SHAREHOLDERS OF CERTAIN MFS FUNDS DURING THE PERIOD 

SPECIFIED BELOW ARE PARTICIPATING IN THE DISTRIBUTION. IF YOU WERE 

NOT A SHAREHOLDER OF ONE OF THE MFS FUNDS LISTED BELOW DURING 

THE PERIOD SPECIFIED BELOW, DO NOT COMPLETE THIS FORM. YOU ARE 

NOT ENTITLED TO A DISTRIBUTION FROM THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT 

FUND. 

YOU ARE ALSO NOT ENTITLED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE DISTRIBUTION IF 

THE INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTION CONSULTANT DETERMINED THAT YOUR 

ACCOUNT’S ALLOCATION, IF ANY, WAS LESS THAN $10.00 

1. On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order (the
“Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. In connection with
the settlement, an SEC Fair Fund (the “Qualified Settlement Fund”) was established with monies
paid by MFS and two of its officers from which investors in certain funds, whom an independent
distribution consultant (the “IDC”) determined were harmed by late trading and other market
timing trading activity during the relevant period, are to be compensated. The IDC has
calculated losses incurred by these funds and developed a plan for distributing the settlement
money to eligible investors in the funds identified below (the “Eligible Funds”) during the period
from September 1, 1999 (or in the case of certain Eligible Funds, a later date) through October
31, 2003 (the “Period”). To the extent that additional amounts from third party (non-MFS)
C-1

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
sources were added to the Qualified Settlement Fund, those amounts are also being distributed in
accordance with the Plan. The SEC case involving MFS is called In the Matter of Massachusetts
Financial Services Co., John W. Ballen and Kevin R. Parke, Admin. Proceeding File No. 3
11393.
The Order applies to eleven funds but the IDC has determined that only the following six mutual
funds incurred losses that are being compensated under the Plan:
Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Value Fund

MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund
MFS Government Mortgage Fund

2. If the IDC has determined that you are entitled to a distribution from the Qualified Settlement
Fund you should receive a check from the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator by
________, 200__. If you did not receive a check by that date, but believe you are entitled to a
distribution, you may complete this form. Before completing this form, it is recommended that
you contact the Administrator of the Qualified Settlement Fund at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx to confirm that
no check has been mailed to you or to determine why the IDC has determined that you are not
entitled to a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund (e.g., you are not entitled to a
distribution if the Eligible Fund you held was not harmed, you were not shown as a shareholder
of record during the Period, the amount calculated with respect to your account is less than $10).
If you owned shares through a broker, benefit plan administrator or other financial
intermediary, do not complete this form. You should contact your broker, plan
administrator or intermediary to determine if they have received a payment on your
behalf. Do not complete this Proof of Possible Entitlement Form prior to [month, day,
year]. If the IDC has identified you as an eligible investor, you should receive a Qualified
Settlement Fund distribution payment in the mail by that date. Complete this Proof of
Possible Entitlement Form only if you do not receive a Qualified Settlement Fund
Distribution payment by [month, day, 200__], and you believe you are eligible for
compensation.
Bar Date: Proof of Possible Entitlement Forms must be sent to the Qualified Settlement
Fund Administrator and postmarked on or before
. Proof of Possible
Entitlement Forms postmarked after that date will not be considered and will be forever
barred.
3. If you receive a notice from the IDC that you are a Disqualified Beneficiary, you will not be
receiving a payment under the Plan. If you receive a notice from the IDC that you are an
Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary or a Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary, you will not receive
a payment under the Plan except as specified in the notice from the IDC.

C-2

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND 

INSTRUCTIONS

Instructions for Completion of Proof of Possible Entitlement Form
General
1. The Proof of Possible Entitlement Form has five Sections, I through V. You must complete
Sections I through IV. Section V tells you where to mail your completed Form.
2. Please print neatly in dark ink or type all information that you enter on the Proof of Possible
Entitlement Form.
3. If you need additional space to complete any information, you may attach separate sheets.
Include the claimant’s name, account number and social security or taxpayer identification
number at the top of each attached sheet.
4. Failure to accurately provide information requested in the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form
could result in delay of processing or a rejection of your claim.
5. Your completed Proof of Possible Entitlement Form and supporting documentation must be
mailed to the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator, postmarked by [month, day, year].
Proofs of Possible Entitlement Forms postmarked after that date will not be considered
and will be forever barred.
6. You will be notified in writing if your dispute is accepted or rejected. If your dispute is
accepted, you will be notified of the amount and the anticipated payment date.
Section I: Claimant Information
1. The claimant must be the actual record owner of shares in an Eligible Fund. If the shares you
owned were registered in the name of a third party (such as shares you held in an account with a
brokerage firm), you are not the record owner. If you held shares in an Eligible Fund through a
broker or other financial intermediary, you will be contacted regarding any distribution that you
may be entitled to receive by that financial intermediary.
2. If there are joint owners of the shares in an Eligible Fund (for example, if you and your
spouse owned shares jointly, all must be listed on the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form. Enter
any joint owner on line 3 of this section (Joint Claimant name).
3. If you jointly owned shares in an Eligible Fund, and also owned shares in an Eligible Fund
individually, you must file a separate Proof of Possible Entitlement Form for the shares held
individually. You can (and should), however, include all of the Eligible Fund shares you held
jointly with the same person(s) in a single Proof of Possible Entitlement Form, and all of the
Eligible Fund shares you held individually in another Proof of Possible Entitlement Form.

C-3

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND 

INSTRUCTIONS

4. If the claimant is a corporation or other entity, line 7 must be completed. Fill in the name and
title of the person who is authorized by the entity to submit the Proof of Possible Entitlement
Form.
5. If you are the legal representative of the claimant (such as a guardian, the parent of a minor
child, or the administrator of the estate of a deceased claimant), you must complete lines 8
through 11 of this Section. If requested at a later date, you must submit proof of your
representative status. If you are not the claimant’s legal representative, you should skip lines 8
through 11.
6. Contact information (lines 12 through 14) must be completed. Claimants that are corporations
or other entities should enter the information of the agent identified in line 7. If the claimant has
a legal representative, the representative’s information should be entered. An individual claimant
should enter his or her own phone numbers and email address.
Section II: Holdings and Transactions in Eligible Funds
1. You must complete Table A if you owned shares in any of the 6 Eligible Funds on August 31,
1999, and you claim that the associated account(s) should have been included in the distribution.
Table A lists the name of each Eligible Fund in the left-hand column. Write or type in the
number of shares you owned on August 31, 1999 in the right-hand column next to the
appropriate fund. If you are not challenging your entitlement to a distribution for each account
that you may have held in an Eligible Fund during the Period, you need only complete this Form
as to those accounts for which you are claiming should have been included in the distribution.
2. If you completed Table A and held the same number of shares in the same funds listed until
October 31, 2003, you should leave Table B blank. Table B must be completed if you purchased
or sold shares in any of the Eligible Funds after August 31, 1999, and until October 31, 2003.
Table B is intended to document share ownership quantity and time period for each fund, so you
should enter separately each purchase or sale of shares in an Eligible Fund account for which you
are making a challenge.
For example, if you purchased 100 shares of the MFS Value Fund on January 1, 2000, you
should enter the fund name (MFS Value Fund), the purchase date (1/1/2000), and the number of
shares (100) in the appropriate columns in one row of Table B. If you still held those 100 shares
on October 31, 2003, you should not enter any other information about the Value Fund. Your
single entry will mean you owned 100 shares of the Value Fund from 1/1/2000 to 10/31/2000.
If, however, you purchased an additional 100 shares of the Value Fund on January 1, 2002, you
should enter this purchase in another row in Table B. Your entries together would now show that
you owned 200 shares from 1/1/2002 to 10/31/2003. Make similar entries if you sold shares of
any other Eligible Fund in which you held an account that you claim should have been included
in the distribution.

C-4

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND 

INSTRUCTIONS

3. If you need additional space to list all your transactions, you can make copies of the tables
and attach them to the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form. Please write your name and social
security or taxpayer identification number on each extra page attached.
4. If you are filing as joint claimants, you should list in Tables A and B only the holdings and
transactions that you owned or made jointly. If you also owned shares in any Eligible Funds
individually, you must file a separate Proof of Possible Entitlement Form.
INSTEAD OF COMPLETING THE TABLES IN SECTION II, YOU MAY ATTACH ACCOUNT
STATEMENTS FOR EACH QUARTER DURING THE PERIOD.

Section III: Documentation Requirements
1. You must submit documents with your Proof of Possible Entitlement Form that verify the
number of shares you held in accounts in Eligible Funds as of August 31, 1999 that you claim
should have been included in the distribution (those you listed per section II above). You must
also submit documents that verify the date of each purchase and sale of shares in Eligible Funds,
and the number of shares purchased or sold, for the time period from August 31, 1999 to October
31, 2003. This Section describes the types of documents you can include. Place a checkmark by
each document type you submit with your claim.
2. If the documents are not in your possession, you should obtain copies from your financial
professional.
3. Do not send originals of your supporting documentation. Keep the originals for your records
and submit copies with the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form. We will not return any
documents that you send with this Form.
Section IV: Certification and Signature
1. You must sign and date your Proof of Possible Entitlement Form in this section. By signing,
you are: (a) consenting to the use of the information you provide to verify your claim; (b)
authorizing the release of the trading records you provided to the IDC or Qualified Settlement
Fund Administrator, and; (c) certifying under penalty of perjury to the truthfulness of the
information you have provided and the genuineness of the documentation submitted.
2. Sign the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form in the appropriate place, depending on whether
you are submitting this Form in your individual capacity, or on behalf of a corporation or other
entity. If there are joint claimants, all claimants must sign.
Section V: Filing the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form
This section provides the address and mailing instructions for your completed Proof of Possible
Entitlement Form and supporting documentation. Please make sure you have completed all
sections, signed your Form, and copied all documents before mailing.
C-5

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
Section I. CLAIMANT INFORMATION
1.

Claimant name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
2.
Claimant social security number or taxpayer identification number
3.
Joint Claimant name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
4.
Joint Claimant social security number or taxpayer identification number
5.
Claimant Street address

City

State

Zip code

6.
Foreign province (if applicable)

Foreign Country (if applicable)

7.
Agent name and title (If Claimant is a corporation or other entity, enter the name and title of the
person authorized to submit this Proof of Possible Entitlement.)
Representative information: Complete numbers 8 to 11 below only if you are the legal representative of
the claimant (for example, a guardian, the parent of a minor child, or the administrator of the estate of a
deceased claimant). Otherwise, leave these lines blank.
8.
Representative name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
9.
Representative title
10.
Representative street address

City

State

Zip code

11.
Foreign province (if applicable)

Foreign Country (if applicable)

Contact Information: The person completing this Proof of Possible Entitlement should provide the
information requested in numbers 12 to 14 below: (a) the agent authorized to submit the Proof of Possible
Entitlement if the claimant is a corporation or other entity; (b) the representative, if the claimant has a
legal representative, or; (c) the claimant, if he or she is an individual.
12.
Daytime phone number

Evening phone number

(Include area code, or country code if applicable in all telephone number listings)
13.
Cellular phone or pager number

Facsimile number

14.
Email address (if available)

C-6
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND 

INSTRUCTIONS

Section II. HOLDINGS AND TRANSACTIONS IN ELIGIBLE FUNDS
INSTEAD OF COMPLETING THE TABLES IN THIS SECTION II, YOU MAY
ATTACH ACCOUNT STATEMENTS FOR EACH QUARTER DURING THE PERIOD.
TABLE A:

SHARES OWNED AS OF 8/31/1999

Beginning Holdings: In the table below, list the number of shares you held in each Eligible
Fund on August 31, 1999 (for those accounts which you claim should have received a
distribution). If you didn’t own any shares in a fund on that date or if you are not challenging
your entitlement to a distribution for an Eligible Funds account, enter “0”.
Name of Eligible Fund

Account Number

Broker Name

Number of
Shares Held on
8/31/1999

Massachusetts Investors Growth
Stock Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund
MFS Value Fund
MFS Government Mortgage Fund
TABLE B: SHARES PURCHASED OR SOLD FROM 9/1/1999 TO 10/31/2003
Subsequent Transactions: In the table below, separately list the date and number of each of
your purchases and sales of shares in the Eligible Funds listed in Table A between September 1,
1999 and October 31, 2003. If you need additional space, make copies of this blank page, and
write your name and social security number/taxpayer identification number on each extra page.
You need not enter sales or purchases for Eligible Fund accounts that you are not claiming
should have been included in the distribution.
Name of Fund

Account Number

Date of
Purchase
of Shares

C-7
US1DOCS 5606296v8

Number
of Shares
Purchased

Date of Sale of
Shares

Number of
Shares Sold

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND 

INSTRUCTIONS

Section III. DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS
If you qualify for a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund, your payment amount will be
calculated based on the number of shares you held and the time period that you held those shares
in each of the Eligible Funds during the Period. Therefore you must provide documentation that
verifies the holdings and transactions you have listed in Section II of this Proof of Possible
Entitlement and is sufficient to show:
•	 For each account, the number of shares in an Eligible Fund you owned on August 31,
1999
•	 For each account, each date between 9/1/1999 and 10/31/2003 that you purchased
shares in an Eligible Fund, and the number of shares purchased
•	 For each account, each date between 9/1/1999 and 10/31/2003 that you sold shares in
an Eligible Fund, and the number of shares sold
This documentation could include (but isn’t limited to): (1) account statements; (2) trade
confirmation slips; or (3) signed letters from your investment professional, on their firms’
letterheads, verifying your holdings and the dates and number of shares involved in your
purchases or sales of shares in the Eligible Funds.
Check below the type(s) of documentation you are submitting with this Proof of Possible
Entitlement:
____ Account statements
____ Letter(s) from your investment professional
____ Trade confirmation slips
____ Other documentation showing holdings, purchases or sales
Do not send originals of your supporting documentation.

Provide copies only. 


Section IV. CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE
Each of the undersigned certifies and agrees (you must sign this form on the next page or your
claim will not be considered):
1. I submit to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for all purposes
in connection with this claim.
C-8

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
2. I consent to the use of any and all information provided in and with this Proof of Possible
Entitlement by the IDC or the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator (including my social
security number/tax payer identification number) for the purposes of verifying my claim.
3. I authorize the IDC or the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator to obtain and review any
and all trading records relevant to my transactions in any of the Eligible Funds from any
brokerage firm or other entity that has possession of such records, and further consent to the
release of such records by such brokerage firm or other entity to the IDC or the Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator.
4. I have personally completed this Proof of Possible Entitlement and declare under penalty of
perjury that the information submitted in this Proof of Possible Entitlement is true, complete, and
accurate, and that the documents submitted herewith are true and genuine.
Individuals

Corporations or Other Entities

Claimant signature

Date

Type or print name of Claimant
Signature of Joint Claimant
Type or print name of Joint Claimant

Name of entity
Authorized signature

Date

Date

Type or print name
Title

Section V. FILING THE PROOF OF PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM
Your completed and signed Proof of Possible Entitlement Form, together with copies of all
supporting documentation, must be mailed and postmarked by [month, day, year] to:
MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator
P.O. Box xxx
Faribault, MN xxxxx-xxxx
Proof of Possible Entitlement Forms that are not postmarked by [month, day, year] will not
be considered and will be forever barred.

C-9

US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS

IN THE MATTER OF MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO., 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING FILE NO. 3-11393 

General Information
IF YOU RECEIVED A CHECK FROM THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE QUALIFIED
SETTLEMENT FUND AND AGREE WITH THE AMOUNT DISTRIBUTED, YOU DO
NOT NEED TO TAKE ANY ACTION. IF YOU RECEIVED THE CHECK BUT
DISAGREE WITH THE AMOUNT, YOU MAY APPEAL TO THE IDC BY
COMPLETING THIS FORM.
IF YOU HAVE NOT RECEIVED A CHECK FROM THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND AND HAVE RECORDS INDICATING THAT YOU
OWNED SHARES OF THE FUNDS AS RECORD OWNER AND BELIEVE YOU ARE
ENTITLED TO A DISTRIBUTION FROM THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND,
DO NOT COMPLETE THIS FORM. YOU SHOULD OBTAIN A PROOF OF POSSIBLE
ENTITLEMENT FORM FROM THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND
ADMINISTRATOR AND FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS ON SUCH FORM. YOU
CAN OBTAIN A PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM BY CALLING 1-xxx
xxx-xxx OR AT http://www.rust-mfssettlement.com.
IF YOU HELD SHARES IN ONE OF THE ELIGIBLE MFS FUNDS DURING THE 

PERIOD INDICATED BELOW THROUGH A BROKER AND BELIEVE YOU ARE 

ENTITLED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND 

DISTRIBUTION, YOU SHOULD CONTACT YOUR BROKER RATHER THAN 

COMPLETING THIS FORM. 

ONLY SHAREHOLDERS OF CERTAIN MFS FUNDS DURING THE PERIOD ARE 

PARTICIPATING IN THE DISTRIBUTION. IF YOU WERE NOT A SHAREHOLDER 

DURING THE PERIOD OF ONE OF THE MFS FUNDS LISTED BELOW, DO NOT 

COMPLETE THIS FORM. YOU ARE NOT ENTITLED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE 

DISTRIBUTION IF THE INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT DETERMINED THAT 

YOUR ACCOUNT’S ALLOCATION, IF ANY, WAS LESS THAN $10.00 

1. On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order (the
“Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. In connection with
the settlement, an SEC Fair Fund (the “Qualified Settlement Fund”) was established with monies
paid by MFS and two of its officers from which investors in certain funds, whom an independent
distribution consultant (the “IDC”) determined were harmed by late trading and other market
timing trading activity during the relevant period, are to be compensated. The IDC has
calculated losses incurred by these funds and developed a plan for distributing the settlement
money to eligible investors in the funds identified below (the “Eligible Funds”) during the period
from September 1, 1999 (or in the case of certain Eligible Funds, a later date) through October
31, 2003 (the “Period”). To the extent that additional amounts from third party (non-MFS)
D-1
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
sources were added to the Qualified Settlement Fund, those amounts are also being distributed in
accordance with the Plan. The SEC case involving MFS is called In the Matter of Massachusetts
Financial Services Co., John W. Ballen and Kevin R. Parke, Admin. Proceeding File No. 3
11393.
The Order applies to eleven funds but the IDC has determined that only the following six mutual
funds incurred losses that are compensated under the Plan:
Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Value Fund

MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund
MFS Government Mortgage Fund

2. If the IDC has determined that you are entitled to a distribution from the Qualified Settlement
Fund you should have received a check from the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator by
_________, 200___. If you received a check but (i) disagree with the amount calculated as your
distribution and (ii) have documentation to support your determination, you may complete this
Form. For example, if the Notice that accompanied the check listed one Eligible Fund that you
held but you held shares in another Eligible Fund, or if you believe the amount of the check you
received was incorrect (even if the Eligible Fund listed was correct) you may use this Form.
Bar Date: Dispute Forms must be sent to the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator
and postmarked by
. Dispute Forms postmarked after that date will not be
considered and will be forever barred.
3. If you receive notification from the IDC that you are a Disqualified Beneficiary, you will not
be receiving a payment under the Plan. If you receive notice from the IDC that you are an
Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary or a Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary, you will not receive
a payment under the Plan except as specified in the notice from the IDC.
Instructions for Completion of Dispute Form
General
1. The Dispute Form has six Sections, I through VI. You must complete Sections I through V.
Section VI tells you where to mail your completed Form.
2. Please print neatly in dark ink or type all information that you enter on the Dispute Form.
3. If you need additional space to complete any information, you may attach separate sheets.
Include the claimant’s name, account number and social security or taxpayer identification
number at the top of each attached sheet.
4. Failure to accurately provide information requested in the Dispute Form could result in delay
of processing or a rejection of your claim.

D-2
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT D 

DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS

5. Your completed Dispute Form and supporting documentation must be mailed to the Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator, postmarked by [month, day, year]. Dispute Forms
postmarked after that date will not be considered and will be forever barred.
6. You will be notified in writing if your claim is accepted or rejected. If your claim is accepted,
you will be notified of the amount and the estimated date that you will receive payment.
Section I: Claimant Information
1. The claimant must be the actual record owner of shares in an Eligible Fund. If the shares you
owned were registered in the name of a third party (such as shares you held in an account with a
brokerage firm), you are not the record owner. If you held shares in an Eligible Fund through a
broker or other financial intermediary, you will be contacted regarding any distribution that you
may be entitled to receive by that financial intermediary.
2. If there are joint owners of the shares in an Eligible Fund (for example, if you and your
spouse owned shares jointly, all must be listed on the Dispute Form. Enter any joint owner on
line 3 of this section (Joint Claimant name).
3. If you jointly owned shares in an Eligible Fund, and also owned shares in an Eligible Fund
individually, you must file a separate Dispute Form for the shares held individually. You can
(and should), however, include all of the Eligible Fund shares you held jointly with the same
person(s) in a single Dispute Form, and all of the Eligible Fund shares you held individually in
another Dispute Form.
4. If the claimant is a corporation or other entity, line 7 must be completed. Fill in the name and
title of the person who is authorized by the entity to submit the Dispute Form.
5. If you are the legal representative of the claimant (such as a guardian, the parent of a minor
child, or the administrator of the estate of a deceased claimant), you must complete lines 8
through 11 of this Section. If requested at a later date, you must submit Dispute of your
representative status. If you are not the claimant’s legal representative, you should skip lines 8
through 11.
6. Contact information (lines 12 through 14) must be completed. Claimants that are corporations
or other entities should enter the information of the agent identified in line 7. If the claimant has
a legal representative, the representative’s information should be entered. An individual claimant
should enter his or her own phone numbers and email address.
Section II: Holdings and Transactions in Eligible MFS Funds
1. You must complete Table A if you owned shares in any of the 6 Eligible Funds on August 31,
1999, and you claim that the associated account(s) did not receive the correct amount from the
distribution. Table A lists the name of each Eligible Fund in the left-hand column. Write or type
in the number of shares you owned on August 31, 1999 in the right-hand column next to the

D-3
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT D 

DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS

appropriate fund. You need only complete this form as to those Eligible Fund accounts that you
are claiming you were incorrectly compensated by the check you received.
2. If you completed Table A and held the same number of shares in the same funds listed until
October 31, 2003, you should leave Table B blank. Table B must be completed if you purchased
or sold shares in any of the Eligible Funds after August 31, 1999, and until October 31, 2003.
Table B is intended to document share ownership quantity and time period for each fund, so you
should enter separately each purchase or sale of shares in an Eligible Fund account for which you
are disputing the amount of the distribution.
For example, if you purchased 100 shares of the MFS Value Fund on January 1, 2000, you
should enter the fund name (MFS Value Fund), the purchase date (1/1/2000), and the number of
shares (100) in the appropriate columns in one row of Table B. If you still held those 100 shares
on October 31, 2003, you should not enter any other information about the Value Fund. Your
single entry will mean you owned 100 shares of the Value Fund from 1/1/2000 to 10/31/2000.
If, however, you purchased an additional 100 shares of the Value Fund on January 1, 2002, you
should enter this purchase in another row in Table B. Your entries together would now show that
you owned 200 shares from 1/1/2002 to 10/31/2003. Make similar entries if you sold shares of
any other Eligible Fund in which you held an account during the Period that you claim received
an incorrect amount.
3. If you need additional space to list all your transactions, you can make copies of the tables
and attach them to the Dispute Form. Please write your name and social security or taxpayer
identification number on each extra page attached.
4. If you are filing as joint claimants, you should list in Tables A and B only the holdings and
transactions that you owned or made jointly. If you also owned shares in any Eligible Funds
individually, you must file a separate Dispute Form.
Section III: Documentation Requirements
1. You must submit documents with your Dispute Form that verify the number of shares you
held in accounts in Eligible Funds as of August 31, 1999 that you claim received an incorrect
amount (those you listed per Section II above). You must also submit documents that verify the
date of each purchase and sale of shares in Eligible Funds, and the number of shares purchased
or sold, for the time period from August 31, 1999 to October 31, 2003. This Section describes
the types of documents you can include. Place a checkmark by each document type you submit
with your claim.
2. If the documents are not in your possession, you should obtain copies from your investment
professional.
3. Do not send originals of your supporting documentation. Keep the originals for your records
and submit copies with the Dispute Form. We will not return any documents that you send with
this Form.

D-4
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT D 

DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS

INSTEAD OF COMPLETING THE TABLES IN SECTION III, YOU MAY ATTACH
COPIES OF YOUR QUARTERLY ACCOUNT STATEMENTS FOR EACH QUARTER
IN THE PERIOD.
Section IV: Certification and Signature
1. You must sign and date your Dispute Form in this section. By signing, you are: (a) agreeing
to submit to the jurisdiction of the SEC; (b) consenting to the use of the information you provide
to verify your claim; (c) authorizing the release of your trading records to the IDC or Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator, and; (d) certifying under penalty of perjury to the truthfulness of
the information you have provided and the genuineness of the documentation submitted.
2. Sign the Dispute Form in the appropriate place, depending on whether you are submitting the
Form in your individual capacity, or on behalf of a corporation or other entity. If there are joint
claimants, all claimants must sign.
Section V: Filing the Dispute Form
This section provides the address and mailing instructions for your completed Dispute Form and
supporting documentation. Please make sure you have completed all sections, signed your Form,
and copied all documents before mailing.

D-5
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
Section I. CLAIMANT INFORMATION
1.

Claimant name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
2.
Claimant social security number or taxpayer identification number
3.
Joint Claimant name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
4.
Joint Claimant social security number or taxpayer identification number
5.
Claimant Street address

City

State

Zip code

6.
Foreign province (if applicable)

Foreign Country (if applicable)

7.
Agent name and title (If Claimant is a corporation or other entity, enter the name and title of the
person authorized to submit this Proof of Possible Entitlement.)
Representative information: Complete numbers 8 to 11 below only if you are the legal representative of
the claimant (for example, a guardian, the parent of a minor child, or the administrator of the estate of a
deceased claimant). Otherwise, leave these lines blank.
8.
Representative name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
9.
Representative title
10.
Representative street address

City

State

Zip code

11.
Foreign province (if applicable)

Foreign Country (if applicable)

Contact Information: The person completing this Proof of Possible Entitlement should provide the
information requested in numbers 12 to 14 below: (a) the agent authorized to submit the Proof of Possible
Entitlement if the claimant is a corporation or other entity; (b) the representative, if the claimant has a
legal representative, or; (c) the claimant, if he or she is an individual.
12.
Daytime phone number

Evening phone number

(Include area code, or country code if applicable in all telephone number listings)
13.
Cellular phone or pager number

Facsimile number

14.
Email address (if available)

D-6
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT D 

DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
Section II. HOLDINGS AND TRANSACTIONS IN ELIGIBLE FUNDS
INSTEAD OF COMPLETING THE TABLES IN THIS SECTION II, YOU MAY
ATTACH COPIES OF YOUR ACCOUNT STATEMENT FOR EACH QUARTER
DURING THE PERIOD OF AUGUST 31, 1999 THROUGH OCTOBER 31, 2003.
TABLE A: SHARES OWNED AS OF 8/31/1999
Beginning Holdings: In the table below, list the number of shares you held in each Eligible
Fund on August 31, 1999 (for those accounts which you claim received an incorrect
distribution). If you didn’t own any shares in a fund on that date or if you are not disputing the
amount received for an account in an Eligible Fund, enter “0”.
Name of Eligible Fund

Account Number

Broker Name

Number of
Shares Held on
8/31/1999

Massachusetts Investors Growth
Stock Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund
MFS Value Fund
MFS Government Mortgage Fund
TABLE B: SHARES PURCHASED OR SOLD FROM 9/1/1999 TO 10/31/2003
Subsequent Transactions: In the table below, separately list the date and number of each of
your purchases and sales of shares in the Eligible Funds listed in Table A between September 1,
1999 and October 31, 2003. If you need additional space, make copies of this blank page, and
write your name and social security number/taxpayer identification number on each extra page.
You need not enter sales or purchases for any of your Eligible Fund accounts that you are not
claiming received an incorrect amount.
Name of Fund

Account Number

Date of
Purchase
of Shares

D-7
US1DOCS 5606296v8

Number
of Shares
Purchased

Date of Sale of
Shares

Number of
Shares Sold

EXHIBIT D 

DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
Section III. BASIS FOR DISPUTE FORM
In the space below, clearly state the reason why you believe that the amount of distribution
calculated by the IDC is incorrect. Your statement, together with the information in Section II,
must be sufficient for the IDC to verify your claim and recalculate the amount due to you.
General statements that you believe that you should receive more without supporting information
and documentation will result in your dispute being rejected.

(attach additional sheet of paper if space provided is not sufficient)
Section IV. DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS
If you maintain that you qualify for a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund, your
payment amount has been calculated based on the number of shares you held and the time period
that you held those shares in each of the Eligible Funds during the Period. Therefore you must
provide documentation that verifies the holdings and transactions you have listed in Section II of
this Dispute and is sufficient to show:
•	 For each account, the number of shares in an Eligible Fund you owned on August 31,
1999
•	 For each account, each date between 9/1/1999 and 10/31/2003 that you purchased
shares in an Eligible Fund, and the number of shares purchased
•	 For each account, each date between 9/1/1999 and 10/31/2003 that you sold shares in
an Eligible Fund, and the number of shares sold
This documentation could include (but isn’t limited to): (1) account statements; (2) trade
confirmation slips; or (3) signed letters from your investment professional, on their firms’

D-8
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT D 

DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS

letterheads, verifying your holdings and the dates and number of shares involved in your
purchases or sales of shares in the Eligible Funds.
Check below the type(s) of documentation you are submitting with this Dispute:
____ Account statements
____ Letter(s) from your investment professional
____ Trade confirmation slips
____ Other documentation showing holdings, purchases or sales
Do not send originals of your supporting documentation.
Provide copies only.

D-9
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT D 

DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
Section V. CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE
Each of the undersigned certifies and agrees:
1. I submit to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for all purposes
in connection with this claim.
2. I consent to the use of any and all information provided in and with this Dispute by the IDC
or the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator (including my social security number/tax payer
identification number) for the purposes of verifying my claim.
3. I authorize the IDC or the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator to obtain and review any
and all trading records relevant to my transactions in any of the Eligible Funds from any
brokerage firm or other entity that has possession of such records, and further consent to the
release of such records by such brokerage firm or other entity to the IDC or the Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator.
4. I have personally completed this Dispute and declare under penalty of perjury that the
information submitted in this Dispute is true, complete, and accurate, and that the documents
submitted herewith are true and genuine.
Individuals

Corporations or Other Entities

Claimant signature

Date

Type or print name of Claimant
Signature of Joint Claimant

Authorized signature
Date

Type or print name of Joint Claimant

Name of entity
Date

Type or print name
Title

Section VI. FILING THE DISPUTE FORM
Your completed and signed Dispute Form, together with copies of all supporting documentation,
must be mailed and postmarked by [month, day, year] to:
MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator
P.O. Box xxx
Faribault, MN xxxxx-xxxx
Dispute Forms that are not postmarked by [month, day, year] will not be considered and
will be forever barred.
D - 10
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT E
NOTICE OF STATUS AS A DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY, ALLEGED DISQUALIFIED 

BENEFICIARY OR POTENTIAL DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY


MFS QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION
IN THE MATTER OF MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO., 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING FILE NO. 3-11393 

On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order
(the “Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. In connection with
the settlement, an SEC Fair Fund (the “Qualified Settlement Fund”) was established with monies
paid by MFS and two of its officers from which investors in certain funds, whom an independent
distribution consultant (the “IDC”) determined were harmed by late trading and other market
timing trading activity during the relevant period, are to be compensated. The IDC has
calculated losses incurred by shareholders of these funds and developed a plan (the “Plan”) for
distributing the settlement money to eligible investors in the funds identified below (the “Eligible
Funds”) during the period from September 1, 1999 (or in the case of certain Eligible Funds, a
later date) through October 31, 2003 (the “Period”). To the extent that additional amounts from
third party (non-MFS) sources were added to the Qualified Settlement Fund, those amounts will
also be distributed in accordance with the Plan. The SEC case involving MFS is called In the
Matter of Massachusetts Financial Services Co., John W. Ballen and Kevin R. Parke, Admin.
Proceeding File No. 3-11393.
The Order applies to the following mutual funds: Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock
Fund, Massachusetts Investors Trust, MFS Bond Fund, MFS Cash Reserve Fund, MFS
Emerging Growth Fund, MFS Value Fund, MFS Government Mortgage Fund, MFS Government
Securities Fund, MFS Money Market Fund, MFS Research Fund and MFS Total Return Fund.
While the Order applies to each of these Funds, the IDC determined that only the Eligible
Funds listed below incurred losses and consequently only certain shareholders of those
Eligible Funds are receiving a distribution under the Plan.
Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Value Fund

MFS Government Mortgage Fund
MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund

[Insert in letters to Disqualified Beneficiaries - Under the Plan, certain investors in the Eligible
Funds may be designated as Disqualified Beneficiaries, Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiaries and
Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries. The IDC has designated you as a Disqualified
Beneficiary because either MFS or the staff of the SEC have identified you as a person or entity
which has (a) been found in a final and non-appealable order of a court or regulatory body of
competent jurisdiction to have engaged in unlawful behavior affecting the Funds during the
Period, (b) has entered into a settlement of any proceeding before a court or regulatory body in
which such unlawful behavior has been alleged, unless the IDC determines that the settlement
should not be deemed an admission of such unlawful behavior, or (c) admitted in writing to such
behavior. As a Disqualified Beneficiary, you are not entitled to receive any payment from the

E-1
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT E
NOTICE OF STATUS AS A DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY, ALLEGED DISQUALIFIED 

BENEFICIARY OR POTENTIAL DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY


Qualified Settlement Fund. The determination of the IDC of your status as a Disqualified
Beneficiary is not appealable.]
[Insert in letters to Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiaries - Under the Plan, certain investors in
the Eligible Funds may be designated as Disqualified Beneficiaries, Allegedly Disqualified
Beneficiaries and Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries. The IDC has designated you as an
Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary because the IDC became aware of pending proceedings
before a court or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction in which you are alleged by the SEC
or another party to have engaged in behavior affecting the Funds during the Period that would
constitute unlawful behavior if such allegations were true, and the IDC determined that such
alleged behavior is likely to have caused Losses if such allegations are true. Any distribution
that would otherwise be made to you under the Plan is instead being segregated in an escrow
account pending resolution of your proceedings. Upon resolution of such proceeding, including
resolution of any available appeals, the escrowed payments shall be disbursed as follows. If you
are specifically found in such proceeding to have engaged in unlawful behavior (or if the
proceeding is settled, you shall be deemed to have engaged in unlawful behavior unless the IDC
determines that the settlement should not be deemed an admission of such unlawful behavior)
and the IDC determines that such behavior is likely to have caused Losses, you shall be a
Disqualified Beneficiary and the escrowed payments that would otherwise have been paid to you
(including interest accrued on such escrowed payments) related to the accounts associated with
the activity that resulted in you being deemed a Disqualified Beneficiary shall be returned to the
Qualified Settlement Fund. If the proceeding is resolved and you are either not found to have
engaged in unlawful behavior relating to the Funds or the IDC determines that your behavior is
not likely to have caused Losses, then the escrowed payments shall be paid to you (including
interest accrued on such escrowed payments). No payment shall be made to you until you have
provided a written certification, in a form approved by the IDC that you did not engage in any
unlawful activity in connection with its investment in the Fund. If such certification is not
provided to the IDC within 18 months after the Transfer Date, you shall no longer be entitled to
any distribution under the Plan. If you have evidence that a proceeding involving you that gave
raise to your designation as an Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary has been resolved, you should
submit that information to the Qualified Settlement Funds Administrator at the address at the end
of this letter.]
[Insert in letters to Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries - Under the Plan, certain investors in
the Eligible Funds may be designated as Disqualified Beneficiaries, Allegedly Disqualified
Beneficiaries and Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries. The IDC has designated you as a
Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary because the analysis undertaken by the IDC in connection
with the determination of Losses indicates that it is likely that trading in your account caused
Losses that exceed $5,000. Any distribution that would otherwise be made to you is instead
being segregated in an escrow account pending determination of your entitlement thereto. If you
do not contest such designation in writing sent to the IDC by , 200___, you shall be a
Disqualified Beneficiary and shall not be entitled to any payment under the Plan. If you
provide timely notice of contest of your designation as a Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary,
any distributions that would otherwise be made to you shall instead be segregated in the escrow
E-2
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT E
NOTICE OF STATUS AS A DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY, ALLEGED DISQUALIFIED 

BENEFICIARY OR POTENTIAL DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY


account pending resolution of any proceedings regarding your investment in the Fund. Upon
resolution of each such proceeding or if no proceeding is commenced by
, 200[ ],
including resolution of any available appeals, the escrowed payments shall be disbursed as
follows. If you are specifically found in such proceeding to have engaged in unlawful behavior
(or if the proceeding is settled, you shall be deemed to have engaged in unlawful behavior unless
the IDC determines that the settlement should not be deemed an admission of such unlawful
behavior) and the IDC determines that such behavior is likely to have caused Losses, you shall
be a Disqualified Beneficiary and the escrowed payments that would otherwise have been paid to
you (including interest accrued on such escrowed payments) related to the accounts associated
with the activity that resulted in your being deemed a Disqualified Beneficiary shall be returned
to the Qualified Settlement Fund. If no proceeding is commenced or a proceeding is resolved
and you are either not found to have engaged in unlawful behavior relating to the Funds or the
IDC determines that such behavior is not likely to have caused Losses, then the escrowed
payments shall be paid to you (including interest accrued on such escrowed payments). No
payment shall be made to you until you have provided a written certification, in a form approved
by the IDC, that you did not engage in any unlawful activity in connection with its investment in
the Fund. If such certification is not provided to the IDC within 18 months after the Transfer
Date, the Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary shall no longer be entitled to any distribution
under this Plan]
If you have any questions, you can call the MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator toll
free at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx.

E-3
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT F 

INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO HOLDERS OF

IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS


On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order
(the “Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. Pursuant to the
Order, a Qualified Settlement Fund (an SEC Fair Fund) was established (the “Settlement Fund”)
from which settlement monies will be distributed to eligible investors of certain mutual funds
advised by MFS (“Affected Investors”) who were harmed by late trading and other market
timing trading activity during the relevant period. Your IRA Retirement Account may have had
an account at one of those mutual funds, or may have invested in the mutual fund through an
insurance company annuity or a broker or other third party that maintained one or more accounts
at the mutual fund for its clients.
A distribution plan has been developed by the independent distribution consultant and
approved by the SEC to distribute the assets of the Settlement Fund to Affected Investors (the
“Distribution Plan”). To the extent that additional amounts from separate third party (non-MFS)
sources were added to the Settlement Fund, those amounts will also be distributed in accordance
with the Distribution Plan.
PAYMENT
Under the Distribution Plan, the IRA trustee or custodian itself is the investor eligible to
receive a payment from the Settlement Fund, not the individual for whose benefit the IRA
Retirement Account is maintained (the “IRA Owner”). If you are the IRA Owner, you have
received this letter because your address is the address shown on the mutual fund’s, broker’s or
other third party’s records as the address of the IRA. (If you are the IRA trustee or custodian,
your address was shown on the records.)
Payment By Check: If this notice is accompanied by a check, the check is made payable
to the trustee or custodian of the IRA, as shown on the mutual fund’s, broker’s or other third
party’s records. As described below, to avoid a taxable distribution, this check should be
deposited in the IRA, not cashed by the IRA Owner. This check will be cancelled if it is not
cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance.
Payment By Credit: If no check is included in this package, the broker or financial
intermediary that maintained or serviced an account with the applicable mutual fund through
which the IRA Retirement Account was invested will be forwarding the payment, by electronic
funds transfer or by account credit to a brokerage or cash management account of the IRA, as
shown on its records. As described below, to avoid a taxable distribution, this account credit is
being made to the brokerage or cash management account of the IRA, not distributed to the
IRA Owner.

F-1
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT F 

INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO HOLDERS OF

IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS

HANDLING THE PAYMENT
A. If the Payment Was Made By Check
Nontaxable Distribution: To avoid a currently taxable distribution from the IRA, it is
important that the Settlement Fund distribution check be handled properly. Briefly, to avoid a
currently taxable distribution:
(1)	

If the IRA still has the same trustee or custodian, the IRA custodian or trustee, as
shown on the check, simply can cash the enclosed check and deposit it in the IRA.
Note. If you are the IRA Owner, send the check to the IRA trustee or custodian
with instructions to deposit the check in your IRA account, as well as instructions
on how to invest the deposit. It is important to instruct the trustee or custodian
that the amount represents a payment from a Settlement Fund and should not be
designated as a contribution to the IRA, but instead should be treated in the same
manner as a non-taxable trustee-to-trustee transfer of assets.

(2)	

If the IRA Owner no longer maintains an IRA with the trustee or custodian to
whom the check is payable and the check is made payable to “[the name of the
previous trustee or custodian] or any successor trustee or custodian”, the IRA
Owner can forward the check to the successor Trustee or Custodian. See the Note
in (1) above. If the IRA Owner no longer maintains an IRA with the trustee or
custodian to whom the check is payable but the check is not issued in that manner
(i.e., it does not include the words “and any successor trustee or custodian” in the
payee line) that check can be cancelled and a new check can be issued to the
trustee or custodian of any IRA currently maintained for the benefit of the IRA
Owner. Note that this could include an IRA newly established by the IRA Owner.
Review the Note in (1) above before sending such new check to the IRA trustee
or custodian.

(3)	

As an alternative to (2) above, if the IRA trustee or custodian receives a
Settlement Fund distribution check but no longer maintains an IRA for the IRA
Owner, it may transfer (including by means of endorsing over) the Settlement
Fund distribution amount directly to a successor trustee or custodian of another
IRA that is maintained for the benefit of the IRA Owner, provided that each IRA
trustee or custodian shall make its own determination whether or not to use this
method (3). An IRA Owner can not endorse a check issued to an IRA trustee or
custodian.

If you are the IRA Owner, please contact the IRA trustee or custodian named on the
check or the person(s) identified in “Questions?” below for further information and to assure
proper handling of the Distribution Plan payment to avoid a currently taxable IRA distribution.
You can find a form of letter that you can use to direct the deposit and investment of the
check with the trustee or custodian of your IRA Retirement Account [insert page reference
F-2
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT F
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO HOLDERS OF

IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS

within exhibit] and on http://www.rust-mfssettlement.com. IRA Owners who need a new check
issued (see option (2) above) can contact the MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator.
Taxable Distribution: The distribution also in some circumstances could be taxable. If
the IRA Owner no longer maintains an IRA, a check can be issued to the IRA Owner (the IRA
Owner should contact the person(s) identified in “Questions?” below to request such a check),
and
(1)
If the IRA Owner cashes the check, he or she will be subject to tax on the amount
received, and also will be subject to an excise tax on the amount if the IRA Owner is under age
59 1/2, unless one of the other exceptions to the excise tax on early distributions applies. The
distribution will be reported in the same manner as any other IRA distribution.
(2)
Alternatively, to avoid current taxation, if the IRA Owner cashes the check, he or
she may elect to roll over the proceeds within sixty (60) days of the distribution to another IRA,
provided all the requirements for IRA rollover contributions are satisfied.
Any IRA Owner who is considering electing a taxable distribution is encouraged to seek
professional advice prior to making that election.
B.

If the Payment Is Being Made By Credit:

Nontaxable Distribution: The electronic funds transfer or account credit to the Owner’s
IRA brokerage/cash management account represents a payment from a Settlement Fund and
should not be designated as a contribution to the IRA, but instead should be treated in the same
manner as a non-taxable trustee-to-trustee transfer or direct rollover of assets. The IRA Owner
should follow-up with the trustee or custodian of the IRA with any instructions as to the future
investment of the payment.
Taxable Distribution: If the IRA Owner wants to receive a distribution of the payment
from his or her IRA after the electronic funds transfer or account credit to a brokerage or cash
management account of the IRA, the IRA Owner should contact the trustee or custodian of the
IRA; such distribution may be taxable, in the same manner as other IRA distributions. Any IRA
Owner who is considering electing a taxable distribution is encouraged to seek professional
advice prior to making that election.
CERTAIN TAX INFORMATION
The Tax Administrator of the Qualified Settlement Fund has provided an information statement
characterizing the distribution and describing the federal tax information reporting and material federal
income tax consequences of the distribution. Please see www.____ or call the MFS Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator for this information statement, to the extent applicable.
IN ADDITION TO REVIEWING THE INFORMATION STATEMENT, YOU ARE
URGED TO CONSULT YOUR TAX ADVISER WITH RESPECT TO THE SPECIFIC TAX

F-3
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT F
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO HOLDERS OF

IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS

CONSEQUENCES TO YOU OF RECEIVING THE PAYMENT, INCLUDING THE EFFECTS
OF U.S. FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL AND NON-U.S. TAX RULES AND THE EFFECT OF
POSSIBLE CHANGES IN LAWS THAT MAY AFFECT THE TAX CONSEQUENCES
DESCRIBED IN THE INFORMATION STATEMENT.

Questions?
The MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator is available to assist IRA custodians,
trustees and Owners in dealing with the Settlement Fund distribution. If an IRA custodian,
trustee or Owner, or any other person assisting in the allocation and treatment of Settlement Fund
distribution payments to an IRA, has any questions, please contact the Qualified Settlement Fund
Administrator toll free at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx.
You can find a question and answer guide for IRA Retirement Accounts and a form
of letter that you can use to direct the deposit and investment of the check with the trustee
or custodian of your IRA Retirement Account at http://www.rust-mfssettlement.com. The
form of letter to your trustee or custodian is also printed [insert page reference within
exhibit].

F-4
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT G(1)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS

OTHER THAN SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS AND

DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS


On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order
(the “Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. Pursuant to the
Order, a Qualified Settlement Fund (an SEC Fair Fund) was established (the “Settlement Fund”)
from which settlement monies will be distributed to eligible investors in certain mutual funds
advised by MFS (“Affected Investors”) who were harmed by late trading and other market
timing trading activity during the relevant period. The retirement plan6 entitled to the enclosed
payment (the “Plan”) may have had an account at one of those mutual funds or may have
invested through an insurance company annuity or a broker or other third party that maintained
one or more accounts at the mutual fund for its clients.
A distribution plan has been developed by the independent distribution consultant and
approved by the SEC to distribute the assets of the Settlement Fund to Affected Investors (the
“Distribution Plan”). To the extent that additional amounts from third party (non-MFS) sources
were added to the Qualified Settlement Fund, those amounts will also be distributed in
accordance with the Distribution Plan.
PAYMENT
Under the Distribution Plan, the Plan itself is the investor eligible to receive a payment
from the Settlement Fund. If you are the Plan participant, you have received this letter because
your address is the address shown on the mutual fund’s, broker’s or other third party’s records as
the address of the Plan or Plan account.
Payment By Check: If this notice is accompanied by a check, the check is made payable
to the to the Plan itself or to the trustee or other holder acting on behalf of the Plan, as shown on
the mutual fund’s, broker’s or other third party’s records (“Trustee”). A participant should send
the check, with this notice, to the Plan Trustee or employer sponsor for allocation to the Plan. A
participant should not cash the check. This check will be cancelled if it is not cashed within
one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance.
Payment By Credit: If no check is included in this package, the broker or financial
intermediary that maintained or serviced an account with the applicable mutual fund through
which the Plan was invested will be forwarding the payment, by electronic funds transfer or by
account credit to a brokerage or cash management account of the Plan’s Trust, as shown on the
broker’s or other third party’s records.

6

The plan may be a defined contribution plan, such as a 401(k) plan, profit sharing plan or money purchase pension
plan, a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, or a 403(b) plan where there is employer involvement.

G(1) - 1
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT G(1)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS

OTHER THAN SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS AND

DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS

HANDLING THE PAYMENT
A.
If the Payment Was Made By Check: If you received a check with this package
and the check is made payable to the current Trustee of the Plan or to the Plan without reference
to a Trustee, the Trustee simply can cash the Settlement Fund distribution check and deposit it in
the Plan’s trust.
If the recipient of the check is no longer the Plan’s Trustee and the check is made payable
to the Plan without reference to a Trustee or made payable to “[the name of the previous trustee]
or any successor Trustee”, the check recipient can forward the check, with this notice, to the
employer sponsor or the successor Trustee for deposit into the Plan’s trust. If the Trustee to
whom the Settlement Fund distribution check is made payable is no longer the Plan’s Trustee,
but the check is not issued as described in the previous sentence, such Trustee may transfer
(including by means of endorsing over) the Settlement Fund distribution amount directly to the
successor Trustee or contact the MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator to have the check
cancelled and a new check issued to the successor Trustee. Alternatively (for example, if the
Trustee to whom the Settlement Fund distribution check is made payable does not know the
identity of the current Plan Trustee), the former Trustee can send the check to the employer plan
sponsor with this notice and have the plan sponsor contact the MFS Qualified Settlement Fund
Administrator to have a replacement check issued. See below for Allocation of Payment.
B.
If the Payment Is Being Made By Credit: If no check is included in the
package, the Settlement Fund payment was made by electronic funds transfer or account credit to
a brokerage or cash management account of the Plan’s Trust. See below for Allocation of
Payment.
ALLOCATION OF PAYMENT
The “plan administrator” of the Plan (or other fiduciary that has the responsibility for
such determinations) must decide how the distribution from the Settlement Fund should be
allocated among the participants and beneficiaries under the Plan. The plan administrator’s
decision regarding how to allocate the Settlement Fund distribution must be in accordance with
the terms of the Plan, and also must be in accordance with any fiduciary duties under the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ERISA”) or other applicable
law. The plan administrator’s decision also must be in accordance with other applicable
provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code or 1986, as amended (the “Code”) and/or
other applicable law.
The following methodologies are provided for allocating the Settlement Fund distribution
pursuant to the Distribution Plan. These methodologies are made available by the IDC for
purposes of U.S. Department of Labor Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2006-01 (the “FAB”).
These are not necessarily the only possible methods. It is imperative, however, that whatever
allocation method the plan administrator ultimately chooses be in accordance with the Plan and

G(1) - 2
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT G(1)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS

OTHER THAN SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS AND

DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS

its fiduciary duties under ERISA or other applicable law. Neither the Internal Revenue Service
nor the U.S. Department of Labor has reviewed these methods.
Alternative 1
Allocate the distribution payment pro rata among the accounts of all persons who are
currently participants in the Plan (whether or not they are currently employees).
Alternative 2
Allocate the distribution payment per capita among the accounts of all persons who are
currently participants in the Plan (whether or not they are currently employees).
Alternative 3
If the plan administrator determines that it is impracticable to allocate the distribution the
Plan receives among Plan participants and beneficiaries because the amount that would be
allocable to participants under Alternative 1 or Alternative 2 is too small, a third alternative is to
allocate the distribution payment to the Plan’s forfeiture account and allocate those amounts,
together with other amounts credited to the forfeiture account, in accordance with the terms of
the Plan.
Alternative 4
Allocate the distribution payment in any other administratively feasible method that the
Plan Administrator determines to be in accordance with the Plan, the FAB, ERISA and the Code
or other applicable law.
Again, it is the plan administrator’s responsibility to determine the method for
allocating Settlement Fund distributions that is appropriate for the Plan. The plan
administrator may wish to seek professional advice to assist in making this determination.
CERTAIN TAX INFORMATION
The Tax Administrator of the Qualified Settlement Fund has provided an information statement
characterizing the distribution and describing the federal tax information reporting and material federal
income tax consequences of the distribution. Please see www.____ or call the MFS Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator for this information statement, to the extent applicable.
IN ADDITION TO REVIEWING THE INFORMATION STATEMENT, YOU ARE
URGED TO CONSULT YOUR TAX ADVISER WITH RESPECT TO THE SPECIFIC TAX
CONSEQUENCES TO YOU OF RECEIVING THE PAYMENT, INCLUDING THE EFFECTS
OF U.S. FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL AND NON-U.S. TAX RULES AND THE EFFECT OF
POSSIBLE CHANGES IN LAWS THAT MAY AFFECT THE TAX CONSEQUENCES
DESCRIBED IN THE INFORMATION STATEMENT.

G(1) - 3
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT G(1)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS

OTHER THAN SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS AND

DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS

Questions?
The MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator is available to assist the plan
administrator in dealing with the Settlement Fund distribution. If the plan administrator, or any
other person assisting in the allocation and treatment of Settlement Fund distribution payments to
the Plan, has any questions, please contact the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator toll free
at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx.

G(1) - 4
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT G(2)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO CUSTODIANS OF NON-IRA RETIREMENT 

ACCOUNTS THAT ARE SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS

On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order
(the “Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. Pursuant to the
Order, a Qualified Settlement Fund (as SEC Fair Fund) was established (the “Settlement Fund”)
from which settlement monies will be distributed to eligible investors in certain mutual funds
advised by MFS (“Affected Investors”) who were harmed by late trading and other market
timing trading activity during the relevant period. The 403(b) account entitled to the enclosed
payment (“403(b)” or “403(b) account”) may have had an account at one of those mutual funds
or may have invested through an insurance company annuity or a broker or other third party that
maintained one or more accounts at the mutual fund for its clients.
A distribution plan has been developed by the independent distribution consultant and
approved by the SEC to distribute the assets of the Settlement Fund to Affected Investors (the
“Distribution Plan”). To the extent that additional amounts from third party (non-MFS) sources
were added to the Settlement Fund, those amounts will also be distributed in accordance with the
Distribution Plan.
PAYMENT
Under the Distribution Plan, the 403(b) itself is the investor eligible to receive a payment
from the Settlement Fund. If you are the individual for whose benefit the 403(b) is maintained
(the “Participant”), you have received this letter because your address is the address shown on
the mutual fund’s, broker’s or other third party’s records as the address of the 403(b). (If you are
the custodian, your address was shown on the records.)
Payment By Check: If this notice is accompanied by a check, the check is made payable
to the custodian or other holder acting on behalf of the 403(b), as shown on the mutual fund’s,
broker’s or other third party’s records. As described below, to avoid a taxable distribution and
possible disqualification of the 403(b), this check should be deposited in the Participant’s
403(b); it must not be cashed by the Participant. This check will be cancelled if it is not
cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance.
Payment By Credit: If no check is included in this package, the broker or other third
party that maintained or serviced an account with the applicable mutual fund through which your
403(b) was invested will be forwarding the payment, by electronic funds transfer or by account
credit to a brokerage or cash management account of the 403(b), as shown on its records.
HANDLING THE PAYMENT
Under Section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), it
is not permissible for a distribution to be made from a 403(b) account until attainment of age 59
1/2, severance from employment, disability, death, or (in certain cases) hardship (a “Distribution
Event”). It is important that the Settlement Fund distributions be handled properly to avoid an
impermissible distribution, as follows.

G(2) - 1
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT G(2)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO CUSTODIANS OF NON-IRA RETIREMENT 

ACCOUNTS THAT ARE SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS

Nontaxable Distribution:
A.
If the Payment Was Made By Check: The check issued to the 403(b) custodian
must be deposited in the 403(b) account or in another 403(b) that is eligible to receive and hold a
transfer or rollover from a 403(b) account. It is important that the Settlement Fund distributions
be handled properly to avoid an impermissible distribution, as follows.
(1)	

If the 403(b) still has the same custodian, the 403(b) custodian simply can cash
the Settlement Fund distribution check and deposit it in the 403(b).
Note. If you are the 403(b) Participant, send the check to the 403(b) custodian
with instructions to deposit the check in your 403(b) account, as well as
instructions as to how to invest the deposit. It is important to instruct the
custodian that the amount represents a payment from a Settlement Fund and
should not be designated as a contribution to the 403(b), but instead should be
treated in the same manner as a non-taxable trustee-to-trustee transfer or direct
rollover of assets.

(2)	

If the Participant no longer maintains a 403(b) with the custodian to whom the
check is payable and the check is made payable to the “[the name of the previous
custodian] or any successor custodian”, the 403(b) Participant can forward the
check to the successor custodian. See the Note in (1) above. If the Participant no
longer maintains an 403(b) with the trustee or custodian to whom the check is
payable but the check is not issued in that manner (i.e., it does not include the
words “and any successor custodian” in the payee line) that check can be
cancelled and a new check can be issued to the custodian of any 403(b) currently
maintained for the benefit of the Participant. Note that this could include a 403(b)
newly established by the Participant. Review the Note in (1) above before
sending such new check to the 403(b) custodian.

(3)	

As an alternative to (2) above, if the 403(b) custodian receives a Settlement Fund
distribution check but no longer maintains a 403(b) for the Participant, it may
transfer (including by means of endorsing over) the Settlement Fund distribution
amount directly to a successor custodian of another 403(b) that is maintained for
the benefit of the Participant, provided that each 403(b) custodian shall make its
own determination whether or not to use this method (3).

In general, please contact the 403(b) custodian named on the check or the person(s)
identified in “Questions?” below for further information and to assure proper handling of the
Distribution Plan payment.
B.
If the Payment Is Being Made By Credit: The electronic funds transfer or
account credit to the brokerage/cash management account of the 403(b) represents a payment
from a Settlement Fund and should not be designated as a contribution to the 403(b), but instead
should be treated in the same manner as a non-taxable trustee-to-trustee transfer or direct rollover
G(2) - 2
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT G(2)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO CUSTODIANS OF NON-IRA RETIREMENT 

ACCOUNTS THAT ARE SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS

of assets. If you are the 403(b) Participant you should contact the 403(b) custodian with
instructions as to the future investment of the payment.
Taxable Distribution
If the Participant has had a Distribution Event and wishes to receive a distribution of the
Settlement Fund payment from his or her 403(b) after the check has been deposited or the
account credited, as applicable, the Participant should contact the 403(b) custodian. The
Participant might wish to consult a competent adviser regarding the tax consequences of such a
distribution.
CERTAIN TAX INFORMATION
The Tax Administrator of the Qualified Settlement Fund has provided an information statement
characterizing the distribution and describing the federal tax information reporting and material federal
income tax consequences of the distribution. Please see www.____ or call the Qualified Settlement
Fund Administrator for this information statement, to the extent applicable.

IN ADDITION TO REVIEWING THE INFORMATION STATEMENT, YOU
ARE URGED TO CONSULT YOUR TAX ADVISER WITH RESPECT TO THE
SPECIFIC TAX CONSEQUENCES TO YOU OF RECEIVING THE PAYMENT,
INCLUDING THE EFFECTS OF U.S. FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL AND NON-U.S. TAX
RULES AND THE EFFECT OF POSSIBLE CHANGES IN LAWS THAT MAY AFFECT
THE TAX CONSEQUENCES DESCRIBED IN THE INFORMATION STATEMENT.
Questions?
The Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator is available to assist 403(b) custodians and
Participants in dealing with the Settlement Fund distribution. If a 403(b) custodian, Participant,
or any other person assisting in the allocation and treatment of Settlement Fund distribution
payments to a 403(b), has any questions, please contact the Qualified Settlement Fund
Administrator toll free at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx.
You can find a question and answer guide for salary reduction only 403(b) accounts
and a form of letter that you can use to direct the deposit and investment of the check with
the custodian of your 403(b) account on http://www.rust-mfssettlement.com. The form of
letter to your custodian can also be found [insert page reference within exhibit].

G(2) - 3
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT G(3)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR DEFINED BENEFIT

NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS

On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order
(the “Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. Pursuant to the
Order, a Qualified Settlement Fund (an SEC Fair Fund) was established (the “Settlement Fund”)
from which settlement monies will be distributed to eligible investors in certain mutual funds
advised by MFS (“Affected Investors”) who were harmed by late trading and other market
timing trading activity during the relevant period. The defined benefit retirement plan entitled to
the enclosed payment (the “Plan”) may have had an account at one of those mutual funds or may
have invested through an insurance company annuity or a broker or other third party that
maintained one or more accounts at the mutual fund for its clients.
A distribution plan has been developed by the independent distribution consultant and
approved by the SEC to distribute the assets of the Settlement Fund to Affected Investors (the
“Distribution Plan”). To the extent that additional amounts from third party (non-MFS) sources
were added to the Settlement Fund, those amounts will also be distributed in accordance with the
Distribution Plan.
PAYMENT
Under the Distribution Plan, the Plan itself is the investor eligible to receive a payment
from the Settlement Fund.
Payment By Check: If this notice is accompanied by a check, the check is made payable
to the Plan itself or to the trustee or other holder acting on behalf of the Plan (“Trustee”), as
shown on the mutual fund’s, broker’s or other third party’s records. This check will be
cancelled if it is not cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days after issuance.
Payment By Credit: If no check is included in this package, the broker or other third
party that maintained or serviced an account with the mutual fund through which the Plan was
invested will forward the payment, by electronic funds transfer or by account credit, to a
brokerage or cash management account of the Plan’s Trust, as shown on the broker’s or other
third party’s records.
HANDLING THE PAYMENT
The Trustee of the Plan (or other fiduciary that has the responsibility for such
determinations), must decide how to handle the distribution from the Settlement Fund. The
Trustee’s decision regarding application of the Settlement Fund distribution must be in
accordance with the terms of the Plan, and also must be in accordance with any fiduciary duties
under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (“ ERISA”) or other
applicable law. The Trustee’s decision also must be in accordance with other applicable
provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code or 1986, as amended (the “Code”) and/or
other applicable law.

G(3) - 1
US1DOCS 5606296v8

EXHIBIT G(3)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR DEFINED BENEFIT

NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS

If the Payment Was Made By Check: If the check is made payable to the current
Trustee of the Plan or to the Plan without reference to a Trustee, the Trustee simply can cash the
Settlement Fund distribution check and deposit it in the Plan’s trust.
If the recipient of the check is no longer the Plan’s Trustee and the check is made payable
to the Plan without reference to a specific Trustee or made payable to “[the name of the previous
trustee] or any successor trustee”, the recipient of the check can forward it, with this notice, to
the employer sponsor or the successor Trustee for deposit into the Plan’s trust. If the Trustee to
whom the Settlement Fund distribution check is made payable is no longer the Plan’s Trustee but
the check is not issued as described in the previous sentence, such Trustee may transfer it
(including by means of endorsing over) the Settlement Fund distribution amount directly to the
successor Trustee.
Alternatively (for example, if the Trustee to whom the Settlement Fund distribution
check is made payable does not know the identity of the current Plan Trustee), the former
Trustee can contact the MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator. That check can be
cancelled and a new check can be issued to the current Plan Trustee. If a new check is to be
issued, please contact the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator.
If the Payment Is Being Made By Credit: The electronic funds transfer or account
credit will be made to the brokerage or cash management account of the Plan’s Trust.
CERTAIN TAX INFORMATION
The Tax Administrator of the Qualified Settlement Fund has provided an information statement
characterizing the distribution and describing the federal tax information reporting and material federal
income tax consequences of the distribution. Please see www.____ or call the Qualified Settlement
Fund Administrator for this information statement, to the extent applicable.

IN ADDITION TO REVIEWING THE INFORMATION STATEMENT, YOU
ARE URGED TO CONSULT YOUR TAX ADVISER WITH RESPECT TO THE
SPECIFIC TAX CONSEQUENCES TO YOU OF RECEIVING THE PAYMENT,
INCLUDING THE EFFECTS OF U.S. FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL AND NON-U.S. TAX
RULES AND THE EFFECT OF POSSIBLE CHANGES IN LAWS THAT MAY AFFECT
THE TAX CONSEQUENCES DESCRIBED IN THE INFORMATION STATEMENT.
Questions?
The Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator is available to assist the Trustee in dealing
with the Settlement Fund distribution. If the Trustee, or any other person assisting in handling
Settlement Fund distribution payments to the Plan, has any questions, please contact the
Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator toll free at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx.

G(3) - 2
US1DOCS 5606296v8

