UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Before the

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 54835 / November 29, 2006
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-12116

In the Matter of

FRED MICHAEL STONE

:
:
:
:
:
:
:

ORDER PERMITTING ATTORNEY TO
RESUME APPEARING AND PRACTICING
UNDER RULE 102(e)(5) OF THE
COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE

I.
On December 1, 2005, the Commission, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of its Rules of
Practice, suspended attorney Fred Michael Stone (“Stone”) from appearing or practicing before
the Commission, with the right to apply to resume appearing and practicing as an attorney after
six months. See Opinion and Order, Securities Act of 1933 Release No. 8639 (December 1,
2005). The suspension was based on the Commission’s findings that while Stone was General
Counsel of Millennium,1 he helped to devise and implement fraudulent schemes to conceal
Millennium’s identity from a variety of mutual funds and thereby enable Millennium to engage
in market timing trades.
In anticipation of the institution of administrative proceedings, Stone consented to entry
of the Order without admitting or denying the findings except as to the Commission’s
jurisdiction over him, which he admitted. The Opinion and Order provided that Stone could
apply to resume appearing and practicing before the Commission after a period of six months.
II.
On or about August 15, 2006, over six months after he had been suspended by the
Commission, Stone filed an application for reinstatement of the privilege to appear and practice

1

“Millennium” refers collectively to Millennium Partners, L.P., Millennium Management,
L.L.C. (the managing partner of and investment adviser to Millennium USA, L.P.) and
Millennium International Management, L.L.C. (the investment adviser to Millennium
International, Ltd.).

before the Commission. His application includes a personal affidavit in which he swore under
penalty of perjury that he has complied with the Commission’s Opinion and Order, that he is not
subject to any suspension or disbarment as an attorney by a court of the United States or of any
state, territory, district, commonwealth, or possession, that he is a member in good standing of
the bar of New York, and that he has not been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving
moral turpitude. In addition, he has paid the $1 in disgorgement and the $25,000 civil penalty
required by the Order.
III.
Based on the foregoing, the Commission has determined that it is appropriate to permit
Stone, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5), to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission.
However, the Commission notes that Stone continues to be prohibited from serving or acting as
an employee, officer, director, member of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of,
or principal underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such
investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter until December 1, 2008.

Accordingly, it is HEREBY ORDERED that Stone may resume practicing as an attorney
before the Commission.

By the Commission.

Nancy M. Morris
Secretary

