UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

ADMIN. PROC. FILE NO. 3-11393
In the Matter of
MASSACHUSETTS
FINANCIAL
SERVICES
COMPANY,
JOHN W. BALLEN AND
KEVIN R. PARKE

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
PROPOSED PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
INTRODUCTION

This Plan of Distribution has been developed pursuant to an order of the Securities and Exchange
Commission titled “Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-And-Desist Proceedings
Pursuant to Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act Of 1940 and
Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act Of 1940, Making Findings, And Imposing
Remedial Sanctions And A Cease-And-Desist Order”, dated February 5, 2004. The Plan
provides for a Fair Fund distribution pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002 of the disgorgement and penalty amount ordered by the Commission. The Order provides
in Undertaking C.4 that the Plan be approved by the Commission pursuant to Rules 1100 and
1104 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. Sections 201.1100 and 201.1104].
Nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to be an expression by the Commission of any view
regarding any other set of facts or any other matter that may come before the Commission.
This Plan of Distribution consists of four parts.
•
•
•

Part I sets forth the purposes and background of the Plan, as well as certain administrative
matters. (Paragraphs 1 to 5)
Part II sets forth the methodology that will be used to allocate distributions under the Plan
among the Record Owners of affected Funds. (Paragraphs 6 to 8)
Part III sets forth the process for identifying persons or entities that will be deemed to be
disqualified from receiving distributions under the Plan, as well as the process by which a
person or entity that asserts an entitlement under the Plan can assert an entitlement to be

US1DOCS 5756741v4

•

treated as a Record Owner or a person or entity that is receiving a distribution may
dispute the calculation of their Distributable Share. (Paragraphs 9 to 15)
Part IV sets forth the methodology for making distributions under the Plan, and
miscellaneous provisions. (Paragraphs 16 to 23)

Defined terms used herein are capitalized and have the respective meaning set forth on Annex A
attached hereto.
The general principles on which this Plan is based are as follows:
•
•
•

•

•
•

•

•
•

The Plan is primarily intended to compensate Record Owners of the Funds for Losses due
to late trading and market timing trading activity in such Funds.
The Plan allocates distributions to certain Record Owners to reflect the Losses that the
IDC estimates that each eligible Record Owner has suffered, based upon the Losses
estimated separately for each day and for each Fund.
To receive a distribution under the Plan, a Person must have been a Record Owner
(subject to the disqualification provisions in Part III) or otherwise submit a Proof of
Possible Entitlement form and all required documentation, as described in paragraph 11,
and have that entitlement accepted by the IDC.
All estimations of Losses are made based upon the application of the IDC’s loss model to
the Record Owners (excluding the four largest Record Owners) and the beneficial owners
of accounts maintained in the names of the four largest Record Owners. Each of the four
largest Record Owners is an Omnibus Account.
All calculations of distributions under the Plan are determined, in the first instance,
separately for each Record Owner and each Fund held by such Record Owner and not on
the basis of the interests of beneficial owners underlying a Record Owner.
This Plan directs Omnibus Accounts and Network Level Accounts on the manner in
which such Omnibus Account or Network Level Accounts shall further distribute
amounts received from the Qualified Settlement Fund to the Omnibus Account’s or
Network Level Account’s Beneficial Shareholders.
Based upon the methodology used for the calculation of Loss developed by the IDC, in
consultation with the Boards of Trustees of the Funds and MFS, and found to be
acceptable by the staff of the Commission, the Settlement Amount is sufficient to
compensate for all Losses.
To the extent that the Settlement Amount exceeds the allocated Losses, the remainder of
the Settlement Amount relates to advisory fees and is allocated to Record Owners that
held shares in the Eligible Funds to which a Loss Allocation has been made.
The Plan does not provide for the calculation of loss for Beneficial Shareholders through
an Omnibus Account that is a Record Owner or other nominee ownership or provide for
the direct payment of distributions to Persons other than the Record Owners (or, in the
case of a Network Level Account, the networking firm associated with the Network
Level Account). The Plan provides that Omnibus Accounts and Network Level Accounts
may elect to have the Consultants assist the Record Owners of the Omnibus Accounts
and the network firm associated with Network Level Accounts in calculating and making
the distributions to their Beneficial Shareholders. Beneficial Shareholders may look only

-2US1DOCS 5756741v4

•

•
•

•

•
•

to the Record Owner who holds the Beneficial Shareholder’s account for an interest in
the distribution made to the Record Owner under the Plan.
Omnibus Accounts and Network Level Accounts are required, subject to limited
exceptions, as a condition to the acceptance of payment of their Distributable Share to
agree to further distribute such distributions to their Beneficial Shareholders according to
the methodologies specified in the Plan.
Record Owners and Beneficial Shareholders who have engaged in unlawful behavior
relating to the Funds are not eligible to receive a distribution under the Plan as to the
account(s) in which such activities took place.
Distributions should be made as promptly as practicable following the approval and
publication of the Plan. No distribution will be made to a Record Owner (or networking
firm associated with a Network Level Account) for Losses corresponding to any one
account of less than the De Minimis Amount.
No Record Owner (or networking firm associated with a Network Level Account) shall
make a distribution to a Beneficial Shareholder of less than the De Minimis Amount.
The Record Owner (or networking firm associated with a Network Level Account) shall
pay all such De Minimis Amounts back to the Qualified Settlement Fund.
The Plan and Exhibits B and G(1) provide methodologies and information for Retirement
Accounts and financial intermediaries in accordance with Field Assistance Bulletin 20061 (the “FAB”).
No portion of the Distributable Amount will be returned to MFS. All of the Distributable
Amount will be used, as described herein, for the benefit of current and former
shareholders of the Funds. Any Eligible Distributable Amount shall be distributed in the
manner described herein.
PART I

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE OF THE PLAN; ADMINISTRATIVE MATTERS
1.
Relevant Provisions of the Order. Undertaking C.1 of the Order states: MFS “shall
retain … the services of an Independent Distribution Consultant acceptable to the staff of the
Commission and the independent directors of the MFS Retail Funds [who] … shall develop a
Distribution Plan for the distribution of the total disgorgement and penalty ordered in … [the
Order] to the mutual funds and their shareholders to compensate fairly and proportionately the
funds' shareholders for losses attributable to late trading and other market timing trading activity
during the relevant period, according to a methodology developed in consultation with MFS and
the independent trustees of the affected MFS Retail Funds and acceptable to the staff of the
Commission.” The Order specifies:
The Distribution Plan shall provide for fund investors to receive, in
order of priority, (i) their aliquot share of losses suffered by the
fund due to late trading and market timing trading activity, and (ii)
a proportionate share of advisory fees paid by such fund during the
period of such late trading and other market timing trading activity.

-3US1DOCS 5756741v4

The Order states: “MFS had an internal policy not disclosed in its prospectuses that permitted
market timing in a group of MFS Retail Funds internally designated as ‘Unrestricted Funds,’”
during the Period. The Order identifies the “Unrestricted Funds” as the Funds. The foregoing is
only a summary of a portion of the Order; a complete copy of the Order may be obtained at the
following Internet address: http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/ia-2213.htm.
The Commission intends that the methods of calculation of each eligible investor’s share of the
Qualified Settlement Fund, as set forth in this Plan below, will result in a payment to each
eligible investor that restores the impaired value, if any, of the investor’s investment in each
Fund, and the methods of calculation contemplated by this Plan are intended by the Commission
to fairly estimate the impaired value that each investor has suffered and make a payment in that
amount.
2.
Payments of the Settlement Amount; Establishment and Administration of the Qualified
Settlement Fund.
(a)
Pursuant to the Order, the MFS Respondents by wire transfer paid the Settlement Amount
to the Commission’s Office of Financial Management on or about March 4, 2004, which
deposited the funds with the U.S. Treasury. The Settlement Amount constitutes a Qualified
Settlement Fund under §468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. §468B(g), and related
regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5. The Commission has custody of the
Qualified Settlement Fund and shall retain control of the assets of the Qualified Settlement
Fund. The IDC shall use the assets and earnings of the Qualified Settlement Fund to provide
payments in accordance with this Plan and to provide the Tax Administrator with assets to pay
the tax liabilities and tax compliance fees and costs, and the Tax Administrator shall use those
assets to pay the tax liabilities and tax compliance fees and costs of the Qualified Settlement
Fund.
(b)
The IDC proposes that Rust be appointed the Fund Administrator pursuant to Rule
1101(b)(6) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans. The Fund
Administrator will serve as the administrator of the fund to oversee the fund, process
distributions, and prepare accountings as provided for in this Plan. The Fund Administrator’s
fees and expenses will be paid by MFS in accordance with the Contract among MFS, the IDC
and the Fund Administrator dated May 24, 2004. The Fund Administrator shall establish one or
more accounts at the Escrow Bank in the name of and bearing the Taxpayer Identification
Number of the Qualified Settlement Fund. The Fund Administrator shall be the signator on the
accounts in the name of the Qualified Settlement Fund, subject to the continuing jurisdiction and
control of the Commission. The accounts in the name of the Qualified Settlement Fund shall be
invested in AAA rated money market mutual funds registered under the Investment Company
Act of 1940 that invests only in U.S. Treasury securities and obligations backed by the full faith
and credit of the U.S. Government.
(c)
The Settlement Amount is currently held in an interest bearing account with the U.S.
Treasury Bureau of Public Debt. Prior to the Transfer Date and any subsequent distribution of
any portion of the Distributable Amount, the IDC shall certify the amount to be distributed to the
Bureau of Public Debt and the staff of the Commission, the staff of the Commission shall obtain
authorization from the Commission to disburse such funds pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6), and the
-4US1DOCS 5756741v4

Bureau of Public Debt shall transfer into an escrow account at the Escrow Bank such portion of
the Distributable Amount that the IDC shall request to fund such distribution, and each such
distribution (e.g., the mailing of checks) shall be made from the escrow account within two
business days of each such transfer. Each certification from the IDC under this paragraph shall
describe the payees and list the payment amounts and the total payment amount. The
certification shall indicate that the payees and amounts they will receive have been validated at
the IDC's direction by the Fund Administrator. The certification shall also state that the payees
and the amounts they will receive were compiled in accordance with the Plan. Unless otherwise
directed by the Commission, the Commission staff will direct the release of funds to the escrow
account based upon the IDC certification and a representation by the Fund Administrator that the
checks/wires will be issued within two business days of each such transfer. The funds will be
held in the escrow account, separate from the assets of the Escrow Bank, until presentation of a
check or wire. Upon presentation of a check, the appropriate amount of funds will be
transferred to a controlled distribution account at the Escrow Bank. Checks will be cleared only
upon satisfaction of the positive pay file and other controls described in paragraph 5 of Annex B.
For any payment to be made by wire instruction, funds will be distributed by the Escrow Bank
directly from the escrow account to the payee only upon satisfaction of the wire transfer controls
described in paragraph 5 of Annex B.
(d)
The Commission is hereby requested to waive for good cause shown the requirement that
a bond be posted pursuant to Rule 1105(c) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans, for the reasons set forth in Annex B of this Plan.
(e)
Until the distribution of the Qualified Settlement Fund is completed, the Fund
Administrator shall provide the IDC and the staff of the Commission with an accounting of
distributions from the Qualified Settlement Fund within 10 days after the end of each calendar
quarter. Prior to the termination of the Qualified Settlement Fund, the Fund Administrator shall
submit to the IDC and the staff of the Commission a full accounting of the distributions made
from the Qualified Settlement Fund as required by Rule 1105(f) of the Commission’s Rules on
Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans.
3.
Development and Implementation of the Plan. Pursuant to the Order, MFS retained, and
agreed to pay the compensation and expenses of, the IDC who was found to be acceptable to the
staff of the Commission on April 26, 2004. The IDC developed this Plan. The development of
the Plan entailed preparation of a damage model and related calculations, compilation and
development of a distribution database and related software and populating that database with
data and calculating individual awards pursuant to methodologies approved by the IDC.
Implementation of the Plan will include processing the distribution of the Distributable Amount;
tracing of returned notices and correspondence when possible or practicable within applicable
time constraints; tracing and verifying distribution awards returned as undeliverable when
possible or practicable within applicable time constraints and telephone support. In the course of
developing the Plan and calculating Losses and the plan of distribution, the IDC reviewed,
among other things, the operation and management of the Funds during the Period; data
including all registration and trading data for all Record Owners of the Funds for the Period
(consisting of a total of over 350 million records); data relating to the Funds’ portfolio
composition, purchases and sales of portfolio securities, cash holdings, borrowings, net asset
values, and total assets; and various types of market data; considered a number of alternative
-5US1DOCS 5756741v4

methodologies for allocating and distributing the Distributable Amount; analyzed the advantages
and limitations of the alternative methodologies relative to the Plan, and tested the degree to
which the allocation implied by alternative methodologies correlated with the allocation reflected
in this Plan. The IDC discussed the Plan and various alternatives to the Plan with the
independent trustees of the Funds, and their advisors; with the staff of the SEC, including
representatives of the Office of Economic Analysis and the Boston Office of the Enforcement
Division; and with counsel and advisors to plaintiffs in the civil action captioned In re MFS,
Civil No. 04-md-15863 (Motz, J.). The IDC also consulted with counsel representing the
Qualified Settlement Fund on tax and ERISA issues and counsel representing MFS on this Plan
and related matters. Based on that review, analysis, and discussion, the IDC determined to
recommend the method for allocating and distributing the Distributable Amount as set forth in
this Plan. On June 2, 2006, the Plan was submitted by the IDC to the SEC staff to begin the
approval process outlined in Section IV(c) of the Order. The Commission shall retain
jurisdiction over the implementation of this Plan.
4.

Exceptions, Extensions and Amendments.

(a)
The IDC may grant MFS or any Omnibus Account or Network Level Account an
extension of any time period specified under this Plan, may permit an Omnibus Account or a
networking firm associated with a Network Level Account permission to use an alternative
methodology for allocating any interest in a Distributable Share or addressing undeliverable mail
and may waive any Person’s obligations under this Plan.
(b)
The IDC, in his discretion, may cause all or any portion of any distribution required by
paragraph 17 that would otherwise be impractical or require expenditures disproportionate to the
Omnibus Account’s or the Network Level Account’s Distributable Share to be returned to the
Qualified Settlement Fund and be treated as Residual Distributions.
(c)
The IDC shall be entitled to interpret any provision of this Plan and, absent manifest
error, the IDC’s interpretation shall be controlling.
(d)
Prior to interpreting any material provision of this Plan or exercising any material
discretion provided to the IDC under this Plan, the IDC shall inform the staff of the Commission
of such interpretation or exercise of discretion.
(e)
If, in implementing this Plan as to a particular class of investors, the IDC determines that
it is desirable, for regulatory, legal or contractual reasons, due to guidance issued by the
Department of Labor or the Internal Revenue Service, or due to the nature of the legal
relationship between the Record Owner of Shares and the beneficial owner of such Shares, that
one or more classes of investors be distributed payments under the Plan in an alternative manner
from that set forth in the Plan or be permitted to allocate or apply payments received under the
Plan in a manner different from that required under the Plan, the IDC may, but shall not be
required to, propose to the staff of the Commission, and the staff of the Commission may
authorize in writing, such alternative methodology. The IDC shall not implement any such
alternative methodology without the consent of the staff of the Commission. The authority to
permit alternative methods of distribution or application of payments under the Plan as
contemplated in this paragraph 4(e) is intended to be limited to circumstances where such
-6US1DOCS 5756741v4

measures are reasonably necessary to comply with regulatory, legal or contractual requirements
or due to the nature of the legal relationship between the Record Owner of Shares and the
beneficial owner of such Shares. By way of illustration, but not limitation, the authority intended
by this paragraph 4(e) is intended to enable the IDC to satisfy regulatory, legal or contractual
requirements to permit distributions to any Retirement Accounts to be applied in accordance
with the requirements of ERISA or the governing documents of the Retirement Account.
(f)
Persons receiving a distribution under this Plan who are not Omnibus Accounts but who
nevertheless held Shares of record for the benefit of others are required to apply any such
distribution in a manner consistent with such Person’s fiduciary and contractual obligations to, or
for the benefit of, such beneficial shareholders.
(g)
The staff of the Commission has authority to extend any deadline or time period
contained herein as requested by the IDC.
(h)
The IDC will inform the Commission staff of any material changes in the Plan, and will
obtain concurrence from the Respondents and approval from the Commission prior to their
implementation. If material changes are required, this Plan may be amended upon the
concurrence of the Respondent, the IDC and the Commission.
5.
Tax Administrator and Related Matters: Department of Labor. 1 (a) Pursuant to Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 Release No 51829 (June 13, 2005), the Commission appointed Damasco
& Associates as the Tax Administrator ("Tax Administrator") of the Qualified Settlement Fund.
Pursuant to that Release, MFS shall pay the fees and expenses of the Tax Administrator. The
IDC, Consultants, MFS and the Tax Administrator shall cooperate as reasonably necessary to
accomplish the income tax compliance, ruling and advice work assigned to the Tax
Administrator by the Commission. The IDC shall authorize the Escrow Bank to provide account
information to the Tax Administrator. Prior to distribution of the Distributable Amount, the IDC
and the Tax Administrator shall cooperate as reasonably necessary so that the Qualified
Settlement Fund shall retain adequate reserves for tax liabilities and the costs of tax compliance.
The Qualified Settlement Fund has requested guidance from the Internal Revenue Service
concerning the information reporting and withholding obligations with respect to distributions
from the Qualified Settlement Fund and the tax consequences to shareholders of the Funds,
including IRA Accounts and Non-IRA Retirement Accounts. In the event that the IRS guidance
has not been issued or has been rejected or modified on the date on which the certification of the
IDC described in paragraph 2(c) is submitted to the staff of the Commission, the notices
distributed in accordance with the Plan may be modified to reflect the absence of such IRS
guidance or its modified terms.
(b) The Department of Labor has issued the FAB regarding the administration of
distributions from fair funds. Exhibits B and G(1) to this Plan provide, pursuant to the
FAB, methodologies and information for (i) financial intermediaries making or allocating
distributions to Retirement Accounts, (ii) financial intermediaries investing distribution proceeds
pending implementation of distribution to Retirement Accounts, and (iii) plan fiduciaries making
allocations to Retirement Account participants. Financial intermediaries and other plan
1

This section of the plan is subject to the outcome of the ruling requests submitted by the Commission to the IRS.

-7US1DOCS 5756741v4

fiduciaries should comply with the interpretive positions set forth in the FAB, including the
obligations of financial intermediaries with respect to the transfer of a distribution from the
Qualified Settlement Fund to a successor financial intermediary, plan sponsor or fiduciary.
PART II
ALLOCATION OF DISTRIBUTIONS
6.
Losses; Fee Allocation. The Order requires that investors receive, in order of priority, (a)
their aliquot share of losses (the “Loss Allocation”), and (b) to the extent that such Losses are
less than the Settlement Amount, their share of the advisory fees paid by the Funds for advisory
services during the Period (the “Fee Allocation”); provided that the aggregate of the Loss
Allocation and the Fee Allocation, plus interest as provided herein, does not exceed the
Distributable Amount (without regard to the Eligible Distributable Amounts). Thus, the Order
requires an estimation of Losses for each Fund in the Period. Losses have been estimated on a
daily basis for each Fund and the daily Losses for each Fund are calculated for each class of
shares of each Fund with positive Losses. A description of the model used to estimate losses is
set forth in Exhibit A. The estimation of Losses indicates that the Settlement Amount will
exceed the Loss Allocation and, consequently, both a Loss Allocation and a Fee Allocation will
be required to comply with the Order. The Loss Allocation and the Fee Allocation are being
allocated in accordance with paragraph 8(b). During the development of the Plan, the staff of the
SEC informed the IDC that the staff interprets the Order to require that the Fee Allocation be a
pro rata increase in the Loss Allocation for each Record Owner and that the staff views a Fee
Allocation in proportion to the advisory fees paid by the Funds during the Period to be
inconsistent with the Order; accordingly, the Plan provides for a Fee Allocation consistent with
the staff’s interpretation of the Order.
7.
Loss Allocation to Record Owners – General. As described more fully below and subject
to the conditions and limitations in this Part II and in Part III, each Record Owner shall receive
such Record Owner’s Distributable Share with respect to each account that is not associated with
activities that resulted in the Record Owner being designated a Disqualified Person (as
determined in accordance with Part III). A Record Owner’s Distributable Share shall be equal to
the sum of the Record Owner’s daily Losses for each day in the Period, and the Record Owners’
participation, if any, in the Fee Allocation and any Eligible Distributable Amounts. If, for
example, a Record Owner’s account was valued at $10 out of a total asset value of $1,000 of the
MFS Value Fund on July 1, 2000, the account would be entitled to 1% ($10 divided by the
$1,000 total asset value) of the MFS Value Fund’s estimated Losses for July 1, 2000. If the
estimated losses for that date were $1,000, the account’s daily Loss would be $10 (1% of
$1,000). An account value was determined by multiplying the number of shares owned by the
Net Asset Value on each day in the Period. MFS Service Center’s customary practices with
respect to the effective date of any purchase and redemption transaction shall be used to
determine whether Shares are outstanding on any given day. MFS Service Center’s customary
practices with respect to “as of” transaction processing shall be used to determine if any Shares
purchased or redeemed on an “as of” are outstanding on any day. If, for example, a Record
Owner is entitled to $300 on account of shares owned as of July 1, 2000, and $200 on account of
shares owned as of July 2, 2000, and those were the only two days in which the Record Owner
owned shares in Funds that suffered Losses in the Period, that Record Owner would be entitled
-8US1DOCS 5756741v4

to receive $500. The calculation of Distributable Shares for any Record Owner is made on an
account of record by account of record basis. Consequently, a Record Owner may have multiple
Distributable Shares if the Record Owner is the Record Owner with respect to multiple accounts
in one or more Funds or one or more classes of shares. In such circumstances, the Distributable
Shares of, and any distributions made to such Record Owner may, but shall not be required to, be
consolidated under the Plan.
8.

Calculation of Distributable Shares.

(a)
As soon as practicable after the Approval Date, the IDC and Consultants shall calculate
(i) Losses and (ii) each Distributable Share.
(b)
Each Record Owner’s Distributable Share shall be determined first by allocating to each
Record Owner an amount equal to such eligible Record Owner’s Losses. If a Record Owner’s
allocation after this first stage of the calculation is a negative amount, the Record Owner’s
allocation shall be reset to zero. Each Record Owner’s Distributable Share shall then be adjusted
upward by allocating the Fee Allocation among Record Owners to which a positive allocation of
Losses has been made pro rata in proportion to such allocated Losses. Consequently, a Record
Owner will only participate in the Fee Allocation if that Record Owner was calculated to have
had positive Losses in the Loss Allocation.
(c)
Eligible Distributable Amounts, if any, shall be allocated among accounts as to which a
positive allocation has been made pursuant to paragraph 8(b) pro rata in proportion to such
positive allocations.
(d)
The Distributable Share corresponding to each account associated with activities that
result in a Record Owner being classified as a Disqualified Beneficiary (as determined in
accordance with Paragraph 12, below) shall be set to zero and such Distributable Share shall be
treated as Residual Distributions and applied as provided in paragraph 20.
(e)
All Distributable Shares that are less than the De Minimis Amount shall be set to zero
and such Distributable Share shall be treated as Residual Distributions and applied as provided in
paragraph 20.
(f)
A Record Owner’s Distributable Share shall be the result of the calculations set forth in
clauses (b), (c), (d) and (e) above.
(g)
In the event that the IDC determines that, due to the netting of gains and losses within an
Omnibus Account or the frequency of Beneficial Shareholder records used by the Omnibus
Accounts, the Distributable Share of an Omnibus Account is not sufficient to fully compensate
the Beneficial Shareholders of the Omnibus Account for their calculated Losses, the IDC may,
but shall not be required to, increase the Distributable Share of such Omnibus Account by an
amount the IDC determines to be equitable to compensate the Beneficial Shareholders for their
Losses. Any such increase shall be funded solely from the Residual Distributions.
(h)
Disqualified Beneficiaries shall not be eligible to receive a distribution from the Qualified
Settlement Fund under Part IV of this Plan with respect to accounts which are associated with
activities that resulted in the Person being classified as a Disqualified Beneficiary; however, each
-9US1DOCS 5756741v4

Disqualified Beneficiary may be eligible to receive a distribution with respect to such accounts
from the Qualified Settlement Fund as provided in paragraph 20. Allegedly Disqualified
Beneficiaries and Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries shall not be eligible to receive a
distribution from the Qualified Settlement Fund under Part IV of this Plan with respect to
accounts which are associated with activities that resulted in the Person being classified as an
Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary or Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries, respectively;
however, such Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary and Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary may
be eligible to receive a distribution from the Qualified Settlement Fund as provided in paragraphs
13 and 14.
PART III
NOTICE; DISPUTES; AND DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARIES
9.
Notice and Tax Disclosure to Record Owners. At the time that a Record Owner receives
payment of its Distributable Share, the Consultants shall provide each Record Owner with a
notice which contains or is accompanied by: (a) a summary of this Plan; (b) a statement of the
amount of such Record Owner’s Distributable Share the Record Owner is receiving pursuant to
the terms of the Plan; and (c) subject to paragraph 5 of this Plan, a copy of any information letter
received from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the IDC and the staff of the
Commission deem appropriate, such as a description of the tax information reporting and other
related tax matters; (d) a statement characterizing the distribution; (e) a statement that checks
will be void after 180 days; and (f) the name of a person to contact, to be used in the event of any
questions regarding the distribution. The notice, including any related instructions and
disclosures, shall be substantially in the forms attached as Exhibit B, F, G(1), G(2) or G(3). Any
such information letter or other mailing to recipients characterizing their distributions shall be
submitted to Commission staff for review and approval. Distribution checks, on their face, or in
the accompanying mailing will clearly indicate that money is being distributed from “an SEC
Fair Fund.” No notice need be provided to any Record Owner concerning accounts for which
the Distributable Share was reset to zero pursuant to paragraph 8(e); however, each Disqualified
Person with an account for which its Distributable Share was reset to zero in accordance with
paragraph 8(d) shall be provided with the notice required by paragraph 12. The IDC and
Consultants shall have no responsibility or liability whatsoever for the preparation or content of
the notices (other than, in the case of Consultants, the calculation of the Distributable Share
amounts contained in such notices), for the creation, maintenance, or verification of the
information contained in the books and records of the Funds, or for the determination of the
identity of the Record Owners.
10.

Publication of Plan.

(a)
Notice of the Plan will be published in the SEC Docket, on the Commission web site
[http://www.sec.gov] and www.Rust-MFSSettlement.com. Any person or entity wishing to
comment on the Plan must do so in writing by submitting their comments within thirty days of
the date of the notice (i) to the Office of the Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-1090; (ii) by using the Commission’s
Internet comment form (www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or (iii) by sending an email to
rule-comments@sec.gov Such comments should include the Administrative Proceeding File
- 10 US1DOCS 5756741v4

Number (Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11393) in the subject line. Comments received will be
publicly available. Persons should submit only information that they wish to make publicly
available.
(b)
The Commission may approve this Plan with such further insubstantial modifications as
the IDC may propose without further publication of the Plan or such modifications. Notice that
the Plan has been approved shall be published on the Commission’s website. The Fund
Administrator, or another services provider selected by MFS and acceptable to the IDC, will
provide customer support and communications programs which will become active at least by
the time the first distribution occurs. These services will include a toll free number and a website
to the public. The Commission retains the right to review and approve any material posted on
the Fund Administrator’s website. MFS may take such additional reasonable steps as the IDC
may direct to publicize the Plan so as to apprise potential beneficiaries of its terms.
11.
Proofs of Possible Entitlement; Dispute Forms; Bar Date. This Plan does not provide for
a claims-made process, and standard procedures for providing notice and for making and
approving claims in the context of litigation settlement funds are not applicable to the Plan.
Absent clear and convincing evidence to the contrary, as determined by the IDC, subject to the
terms of paragraphs 12 through 14 below, Record Owners shall be conclusively deemed to have
submitted valid and sufficient proofs of possible entitlement to a portion of the Distributable
Amount solely by virtue of being listed as the registered owner of Shares on the books and
records of the Funds; provided, that no Record Owner will be eligible to receive amounts in
excess of their Distributable Share as calculated by the IDC unless the Record Owner files a
Dispute Form in accordance with the terms and conditions of this paragraph 11. Any Person
who believes that it is eligible to receive a portion of the Distributable Amount because such
person was incorrectly excluded from the list of Record Owners may submit a Proof of Possible
Entitlement to that effect. A Dispute Form and a Proof of Possible Entitlement may only be used
to contest the accuracy of a Person’s status as a Record Owner during the Period or the number
of shares of the Funds held of record. Dispute Forms and Proofs of Possible Entitlement may not
be used to contest any other aspect of the Plan or any Record Owner’s Distributable Share. As to
all such other issues, the determination of the IDC is conclusive and shall control and no process
for disputing, contesting or appealing the determinations of the IDC are contemplated by this
Plan. A Record Owner who believes it is entitled to a Distributable Share other than specified in
its notice, may submit a Dispute Form to that effect. To be valid, a Proof of Possible Entitlement
or Dispute Form must be postmarked on or before the 180th day after the Publication Date and
mailed to the IDC at the address set forth on Exhibit C or Exhibit D, as applicable. Further, each
Proof of Possible Entitlement or Dispute Form must be supported by documents specified in the
Proof of Possible Entitlement form or Dispute Form form, as applicable, and such other
documents as may be reasonably requested by the IDC. The IDC, in his sole discretion, shall
determine whether a Person is entitled to be treated as an eligible Record Owner or to have a
different Distributable Share. The IDC shall provide any Record Owner with information
reasonably requested in connection with the submission of a Proof of Possible Entitlement or
Dispute Form regarding the Loss calculated for such Funds and such days as are relevant to such
Proof of Possible Entitlement or Dispute Form. Any Person (a) who is not a Record Owner who
believes it is entitled to be a Record Owner, or (b) who is a Record Owner who disputes the
amount of its Distributable Share, but fails to submit a valid Proof of Possible Entitlement or
Dispute Form that is postmarked on or before the 180th day after the Publication Date, shall be
- 11 US1DOCS 5756741v4

forever barred from receiving any distributions pursuant to the Plan, or disputing the amount of
its Distributable Share, as applicable. If any Proof of Possible Entitlement or Dispute Form
resolved by the IDC results in a determination that the Person that submitted the Proof of
Possible Entitlement or Dispute Form is entitled to be treated as an eligible Record Owner or to
have a different Distributable Share, as applicable, the IDC shall cause an amount to be
distributed to any Person whose Proof of Possible Entitlement or Dispute Form is accepted by
the IDC equal to the Distributable Share that would have been allocated to such Person in
accordance with paragraph 8 (and such Person shall be treated as a Record Owner for purposes
of this Plan, including but not limited to the requirements of Part IV), which distribution shall be
made from amounts that would otherwise constitute Residual Distributions. In the event that the
funds that constitute the Residual Distributions are not sufficient to satisfy all accepted Dispute
Form and Proof of Possible Entitlements (as well as other approved uses of the Residual
Distributions), the amount otherwise distributable to the holder of such Dispute Form or Proof of
Possible Entitlement shall be reduced pro rata, based upon the value of the respective claims,
with other obligations payable from the Residual Distributions. The IDC shall resolve any
Proofs of Possible Entitlement or Dispute Forms as soon as practicable after the 180th day after
the Publication Date and the determination of the IDC shall be controlling for purposes of
establishing the Persons who are entitled to a distribution from the Qualified Settlement Fund
and the amounts of such distributions. The Consultant shall notify each Person who submitted a
Proof of Possible Entitlement or Dispute Form as to the IDC’s determination with respect to such
Proof of Possible Entitlement or Dispute Form but the Consultant shall not be required to state in
such notice any basis of the IDC’s determination.
12.
Disqualified Beneficiaries. Concurrently with the determination of Distributable Shares,
as provided in paragraph 8 above, the IDC shall inquire of MFS and the staff of the Commission
which if any of the Record Owners are persons who have either (a) been found in a final and
non-appealable order of a court or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction to have engaged in
unlawful behavior affecting the Funds during the Period, (b) has entered into a settlement of any
proceeding before a court or regulatory body in which such unlawful behavior has been alleged,
unless the IDC determines that the settlement should not be deemed an admission of such
unlawful behavior, or (c) admitted in writing to such behavior. Each MFS Respondent
(including any account for their benefit or their interest in Shares through a Retirement Plan)
shall be a Disqualified Beneficiary, but accounts held by such MFS Respondents for the benefit
of others shall not be Disqualified Beneficiaries solely because a MFS Respondent is a Record
Owner. Based upon any information provided in response to such inquiries, the IDC shall
determine which if any of the Record Owners are Disqualified Beneficiaries. In making any
such determination, the IDC may rely on documents and other information provided by MFS, the
Commission, or courts of competent jurisdiction. Any Record Owner determined to be a
Disqualified Beneficiary shall receive a notice in substantially the form attached as Exhibit E
from the IDC or the Consultant. A Disqualified Beneficiary shall not receive any portion of the
Distributable Amount on behalf of those accounts that are associated with activities that result in
such Disqualified Beneficiary being designated a Disqualified Beneficiary, and any Distributable
Share that would otherwise have been payable to a Disqualified Beneficiary with respect to those
accounts shall be applied as set forth in paragraph 8 hereof.
Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiaries. If the IDC becomes aware of any pending
13.
proceeding before a court or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction in which any Record
- 12 US1DOCS 5756741v4

Owner is alleged by the Commission or any other party to have engaged in behavior affecting the
Funds during the Period that would constitute unlawful behavior if such allegations were true,
and the IDC determines that such alleged behavior is likely to have caused Losses if such
allegations are true, each such Record Owner shall be deemed an “Allegedly Disqualified
Beneficiary” without any independent assessment by the IDC, the Commission, or any other
party as to the truth of the allegations. Any Record Owner deemed by the IDC to be an
Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary shall receive written notice from the IDC or the Consultant of
such determination as soon as practicable after such determination has been made. Any
distributions that would otherwise be made to each Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary shall
instead be segregated in the escrow account holding the Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary’s
Distributable Share, pending resolution of proceedings regarding such Allegedly Disqualified
Beneficiary. Upon resolution of each such proceeding, including resolution of any available
appeals, the escrowed payments shall be disbursed as follows: (a) if the Allegedly Disqualified
Beneficiary is specifically found in such proceeding to have engaged in unlawful behavior (or if
the proceeding is settled, the Allegedly Disqualified Beneficial shall be deemed to have engaged
in unlawful behavior unless the IDC determines that the settlement should not be deemed an
admission of such unlawful behavior) and the IDC determines that such behavior is likely to
have caused Losses, such Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary shall be a Disqualified Beneficiary
and the escrowed payments that would otherwise have been paid to such Disqualified
Beneficiary (including interest accrued on such escrowed payments) related to the accounts
associated with the activity that resulted in the person being deemed a Disqualified Beneficiary
shall be treated as Residual Distributions and applied as provided in paragraph 20; or (b) if the
proceeding is resolved and the Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary is either not found to have
engaged in unlawful behavior relating to the Funds or the IDC determines that such behavior is
not likely to have caused Losses, then the escrowed payments shall be paid to such Allegedly
Disqualified Beneficiary (including interest accrued on such escrowed payments). No payment
shall be made to a Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary pursuant to clause (b) in the preceding
sentence until the Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary has provided a written certification, in a
form approved by the IDC, that the Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary did not engage in any
unlawful activity in connection with its investment in the Fund. If such certification is not
provided to the IDC within 18 months after the Transfer Date, the Allegedly Disqualified
Beneficiary shall no longer be entitled to any distribution under this Plan.
14.
Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries. If the analysis described in Exhibit A to this Plan
undertaken by the IDC and Consultants in connection with the determination of Losses indicates
that a Record Owner is likely to have engaged in unlawful conduct that caused Losses that
exceed $5,000, the IDC shall designate such Record Owner as a “Potentially Disqualified
Beneficiary.” Any Record Owner deemed by the IDC to be a Potentially Disqualified
Beneficiary shall receive written notice from the IDC or the Consultant of such determination as
soon as practicable after such determination is made. Any distributions that would otherwise be
made to each Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary shall instead be segregated in an escrow
account with the Escrow Bank holding the Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary’s Distributable
Share, pending determination of the Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary’s entitlement thereto. If
the Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary does not contest such designation in writing sent to the
IDC within 90 days of the date of the written notice that such Person has been designated a
Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary, such Person shall be a Disqualified Beneficiary. If a timely
notice of contest of the designation is made, any distributions that would otherwise be made to
- 13 US1DOCS 5756741v4

such Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary shall instead be segregated in the escrow account
holding the Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary’s Distributable Share, pending resolution of any
proceedings regarding such Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary. Upon resolution of each such
proceeding or if no proceeding is commenced within one year after the Transfer Date, including
resolution of any available appeals, the escrowed payments shall be disbursed as follows: (a) if
the Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary is specifically found in such proceeding to have engaged
in unlawful behavior (or if the proceeding is settled, the Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary
shall be deemed to have engaged in unlawful behavior unless the IDC determines that the
settlement should not be deemed an admission of such unlawful behavior) and the IDC
determines that such behavior is likely to have caused Losses, such Potentially Disqualified
Beneficiary shall be a Disqualified Beneficiary and the escrowed payments that would otherwise
have been paid to such Disqualified Beneficiary (including interest accrued on such escrowed
payments) related to the accounts associated with the activity that resulted in the person being
deemed a Disqualified Beneficiary shall be treated as Residual Distributions and applied as
provided in paragraph 20; or (b) if no proceeding is commenced or a proceeding is resolved and
the Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary is either not found to have engaged in unlawful behavior
relating to the Funds or the IDC determines that such behavior is not likely to have caused
Losses, then the escrowed payments shall be paid to such Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary
(including interest accrued on such escrowed payments). No payment shall be made to a
Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary pursuant to clause (b) in the preceding sentence until the
Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary has provided a written certification, in a form approved by
the IDC, that the Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary did not engage in any unlawful activity in
connection with its investment in the Fund. If such certification is not provided to the IDC
within 18 months after the Transfer Date, the Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary shall no longer
be entitled to any distribution under this Plan.

15.
Status of an Omnibus Account as a Disqualified Beneficiary, Allegedly Disqualified
Beneficiary or a Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary.
(a)
To the extent that the IDC is aware that a Record Owner is an Omnibus Account and the
IDC determines that, or MFS in good faith alleges (which allegations the IDC determines to have
a reasonable basis) that, any Indirect Disqualified Beneficiaries had an interest during the Period
in such Omnibus Account, the Omnibus Account shall be deemed to consist of two accounts, one
representing the interests of such Indirect Disqualified Beneficiaries – which account shall be
deemed for purposes of this Plan to be a Disqualified Beneficiary under paragraph 12 - and the
other representing the interest of all other Beneficial Shareholders. To the extent that the IDC
cannot determine with certainty the allocation of the Omnibus Account between Disqualified
Beneficiaries and other Beneficial Shareholders, the IDC shall estimate such amount in good
faith and the IDC’s determination shall be conclusive and binding.
(b)
To the extent that the IDC is aware that a Record Owner is an Omnibus Account and the
IDC determines that, or MFS in good faith alleges (which allegations the IDC determines to have
a reasonable basis) that, any Indirect Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiaries had an interest during
the Period in such Omnibus Account, the Omnibus Account shall be deemed to consist of two
accounts, one representing the interests of such Indirect Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiaries –
- 14 US1DOCS 5756741v4

which account shall be deemed for purposes of this Plan to be an Allegedly Disqualified
Beneficiary - and the other representing the interest of all other Beneficial Shareholders. To the
extent that the IDC cannot determine with certainty the allocation of the Omnibus Account
between Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiaries and other Beneficial Shareholders, the IDC shall
estimate such amount in good faith and the IDC’s determination shall be conclusive and binding.
(c)
To the extent that the IDC is aware that a Record Owner is an Omnibus Account and the
IDC determines that, or MFS in good faith alleges (which allegations the IDC determines to have
a reasonable basis) that, any Indirect Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries had an interest during
the Period in such Omnibus Account, the Omnibus Account shall be deemed to consist of two
accounts, one representing the interests of such Indirect Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries –
which account shall be deemed for purposes of this Plan to be a Potentially Disqualified
Beneficiary - and the other representing the interest of all other Beneficial Shareholders. To the
extent that the IDC cannot determine with certainty the allocation of the Omnibus Account
between Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries and other Beneficial Shareholders, the IDC shall
estimate such amount in good faith and the IDC’s determination shall be conclusive and binding.
(d)
Where the IDC determines that, or MFS in good faith alleges (which allegations the IDC
determines to have a reasonable basis) that, an Omnibus Account falls within more than one of
clauses (a), (b) and (c) above, the Omnibus Account shall be deemed to consist of such number
of accounts as shall be necessary to carry out the purposes of this paragraph 15.
(e)
The IDC may, but shall not be required to, make inquiries of any Omnibus Account
whether any Indirect Disqualified Beneficiaries, Indirect Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiaries or
Indirect Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries were, during the Period, Beneficial Shareholders
in the records of the Omnibus Account. If an Omnibus Account does not reasonably cooperate
with the IDC, the IDC may, but shall not be required to, deem such Record Owner as a
Disqualified Beneficiary.

- 15 US1DOCS 5756741v4

PART IV
DISTRIBUTIONS
16.
Distribution of Distributable Amount; Methods of Distribution to Record Owners Other
than Omnibus Accounts and Network Level Accounts.
A.

Distribution of Distributable Amount.

On the Transfer Date, each Record Owner other than an Omnibus Account and a
Network Level Account shall be paid its Distributable Share. A Record Owner may have
multiple accounts registered in its name and a Distributable Share will be calculated separately
for each such account. In accordance with this Part IV, Distributable Shares may be, but shall
not be required to be, distributed separately by the Qualified Settlement Fund to a single Record
Owner or distributions under the Plan to a Record Owner may be, but shall not be required to be,
consolidated. Within ten (10) days following the delivery (by mail or wire transfer, as the case
may be) of each substantial portion of the distribution contemplated by this Plan, the Consultants
shall notify the Associate District Administrator and the IDC, at the addresses set forth below, of
the dollar amount and percentage of the distribution so completed, the number of Record Owners
that has been paid its Distributable Share, and the date(s) on which each such portion was
completed. “Substantial portion” for purposes of the prior sentence shall mean at least 10% of
the Distributable Amount.
B.
Method of Distribution to Record Owners other than Omnibus Accounts and
Network Level Accounts.
Each Record Owner other than Omnibus Accounts and Network Level Accounts will
receive payment of its Distributable Share by check. All checks delivered with respect to
Retirement Accounts shall be made payable to the trustee or custodian of the Retirement
Account identified as the Record Owner. All distributions made with respect to IRA Accounts
shall be accompanied or preceded by instructions to the Record Owner as to how to handle the
Distributable Share, such instructions to be substantially in the form attached to this Plan as
Exhibit F, as well as a copy of any information letter received from the IRS, and such additional
tax disclosures as the IDC and the staff of the Commission deem appropriate describing the tax
consequences of receiving a Distributable Share pursuant to the Plan with respect to such IRA
Account. All distributions made with respect to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts that are salary
reduction only 403(b) accounts shall be accompanied or preceded by instructions to the Record
Owner as to how to handle the Distributable Share, such instructions to be substantially in the
form attached to this Plan as Exhibit G(2), as well as a copy of any information letter received
from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the IDC and the staff of the Commission
deem appropriate) describing the tax consequences of receiving a Distributable Share pursuant to
the Plan with respect to such salary reduction only 403(b) account. All distributions made with
respect to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts that are Defined Benefit Plans shall be accompanied or
preceded instructions to the Record Owner as to how to handle the Distributable Share, such
instructions to be substantially in the form attached to this Plan as Exhibit G(3), as well as by a
copy of any information letter received from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the
IDC and the staff of the Commission deem appropriate describing the tax consequences of
- 16 US1DOCS 5756741v4

receiving a Distributable Share pursuant to the Plan with respect to such Defined Benefit Plan.
All distributions made with respect to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts other than salary reduction
only 403(b) accounts and Defined Benefit Plans shall be accompanied or preceded by an
instruction to the administrator of such retirement plan that the distribution should be paid and
applied in accordance with the terms of its plan, ERISA and/or any other applicable law, such
instructions to be substantially in the form attached to this Plan as Exhibit G(1), as well as a copy
of any information letter received from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the IDC
and the staff of the Commission deem appropriate. Distributions made by check to each Record
Owner that is a Retirement Account shall be delivered to such Record Owner’s address of record
as reflected on the books and records of the Funds unless such Record Owner, or person acting
on behalf of such Record Owner, has provided the Consultants with a different address.
17.
Methods and Procedures Related to Distributions to Omnibus Accounts and Network
Level Accounts.
A.

Distributions to Omnibus Accounts

Each Omnibus Account shall have the options specified in this paragraph 17 for
delivering distributions under the Plan to the Beneficial Shareholders of such Omnibus Account.
Each Omnibus Account which is anticipated to receive a Distributable Share of $10,000
or more for that single Omnibus Account must elect Option 1, Option 2 or Option 3. Prior to
making such election, authorized representatives of the Omnibus Account shall be entitled to
consult with the Consultants as to the information that will be required if Option 2 or Option 3 is
selected and the format in which such information will be required to be delivered to the
Consultants. The election of Option 1, Option 2 or Option 3 must be in writing and postmarked
within 45 days after the Approval Date to the Consultants at the address specified in paragraph
23. If no election is made by such date, the Omnibus Account shall be deemed to have elected
Option 1. If an Omnibus Account is unable to make distributions as contemplated by the Plan
because of operational limitations that make such distribution impracticable or require
expenditures that are disproportionate to the Omnibus Account’s Distributable Share, such
Omnibus Account may either (a) make such distribution on the basis of annual, semi-annual,
quarterly or monthly data (but otherwise in accordance with this Plan) or (b) notify the IDC in
writing. Such notice will describe the circumstances that prohibit the making of distributions in
accordance with the Plan and will propose an alternative method of distribution to Beneficial
Shareholders of such Omnibus Account. The IDC will respond to such proposal as soon as is
practicable after receiving such notice and the determination of the IDC shall be controlling.
With respect to any single Omnibus Account the Distributable Share of which is less than
$10,000, the Omnibus Account may elect either (i) to distribute the Omnibus Account’s
Distributable Share to its beneficial owners (or otherwise apply the Omnibus Account’s
Distributable Share for the benefit of its beneficial owners) in a manner that the Omnibus
Account determines to be appropriate and consistent with its legal obligations to the beneficial
owners or (ii) to elect Option 1.

- 17 US1DOCS 5756741v4

Option 1:

Distribution by Omnibus Account

If an Omnibus Account chooses to make the distribution of its Distributable Share to its
Beneficial Shareholders, such Omnibus Account will receive one check or wire transfer for its
Distributable Share with respect to that single Omnibus Account. If the Omnibus Account
wishes to receive its distribution via wire transfer, a Payment Instruction Form containing wiring
instructions must be delivered to the Consultants no later than forty-five (45) days after the
Approval Date.
Upon receipt of funds representing the Distributable Share, the Omnibus Account shall
promptly (i) calculate amounts owed to its Beneficial Shareholders strictly in accordance with
the methodology established by the Plan, and (ii) distribute such amounts to its Beneficial
Shareholders. To assist in this distribution, the Consultants will provide a spreadsheet which
identifies the amount of Losses incurred by each Fund for each day of the Period and provides
other information useful in making such distributions. All distributions shall be completed
within one hundred eighty (180) days of the receipt of the funds from the Qualified Settlement
Fund, unless the Record Owner can demonstrate hardship circumstances to the IDC and the IDC
grants a deadline extension for distributions. All distributions to a Retirement Account shall be
made by check and all checks delivered with respect to Retirement Accounts shall be made
payable to the trustee or custodian of the Retirement Account identified as the Beneficial
Shareholder. All distributions made with respect to IRA Accounts shall be accompanied or
preceded by instructions to the Record Owner as to how to handle the Distributable Share, such
instructions to be substantially in the form attached to this Plan as Exhibit F, as well as a copy of
any information letter received from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the IDC and
the staff of the Commission deem appropriate describing the tax consequences of receiving
Distributable Share pursuant to the Plan with respect to such IRA Account. All distributions
made with respect to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts that are salary reduction only 403(b)
accounts shall be accompanied or preceded by instructions to the Record Owner as to how to
handle the Distributable Share, such instructions to be substantially in the form attached to this
Plan as Exhibit G(2), as well as a copy of any information letter received from the IRS, and such
additional tax disclosures as the IDC and the staff of the Commission deem appropriate
describing the tax consequences of receiving a Distributable Share pursuant to the Plan with
respect to such salary reduction only 403(b) account. All distributions made with respect to
Non-IRA Retirement Accounts that are Defined Benefit Plans shall be accompanied or preceded
by instructions to the Record Owner as to how to handle the Distributable Share, such
instructions to be substantially in the form attached to this Plan as Exhibit G(3), as well as a copy
of any information letter received from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the IDC
and the staff of the Commission deem appropriate describing the tax consequences of receiving a
Distributable Share pursuant to the Plan with respect to such Defined Benefit Plan. All
distributions made with respect to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts other than salary reduction
only 403(b) accounts and Defined Benefit Plans shall be accompanied or preceded by an
instruction to the administrator of such retirement plan that the distribution should be paid and
applied in accordance with the terms of its plan, ERISA and/or any other applicable law, which
instructions shall be substantially in the form of instructions attached to this Plan as Exhibit G(1),
as well as a copy of any information letter received from the IRS, and such additional tax
disclosures as the IDC and the staff of the Commission deem appropriate. Distributions made by
check to each Beneficial Shareholder that is a Retirement Account shall be delivered to such
- 18 US1DOCS 5756741v4

Beneficial Shareholder’s address of record as reflected on the books and records of the Omnibus
Account unless such Beneficial Shareholder, or person acting on behalf of such Beneficial
Shareholder, has provided the Omnibus Account with a different address.
Each Omnibus Account electing this Option 1 shall certify to the IDC and MFS before
receiving any distribution that it can and will distribute its Distributable Share to its Beneficial
Shareholders in accordance with the Plan; provided that if the Omnibus Account can make a
distribution to its Beneficial Shareholders by electronic funds transfer or by crediting amounts to
a brokerage or cash management account, such methods of distribution shall be deemed to be in
accordance with this Plan as long as (i), prior to or concurrently with the funds transfer or
crediting of the brokerage or cash management account, the Omnibus Account provides to the
Beneficial Shareholders the notices required by this paragraph 17 and (ii) all distributions to
Retirement Accounts are made in accordance with the requirements of the preceding paragraph
and the Exhibits to this Plan other than the requirement that the form of distribution be by check.
The receipt by the Omnibus Account of its Distributable Share shall be deemed to constitute an
agreement that such Omnibus Account will further distribute such proceeds in accordance with
the Plan. The Omnibus Account shall also be deemed to agree to provide the IDC with such
interim reports regarding the implementation of the Plan by the Omnibus Account as the IDC
shall reasonably request and that within ten (10) days of the completion of the distributions, such
Omnibus Account shall submit an affidavit to the IDC and MFS attesting to (i) the proper
distribution of funds to the Beneficial Shareholders in accordance with the Plan, and (ii) the
delivery of the proper disclosures as described in the previous paragraph. Any checks that have
not been cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days of issuance shall be cancelled and the
amount thereof shall be returned to the Qualified Settlement Fund and be treated as Residual
Distributions and applied as provided in paragraph 20. Any Omnibus Account that elected or is
deemed to have elected Option 1 shall not make distributions to any Beneficial Shareholder if
such distribution is less than the De Minimis Amount. Such De Minimis Amounts shall be
returned to the Qualified Settlement Fund and be treated as Residual Distributions and applied as
provided in paragraph 20.
Option 2:

Distributions by Consultants directly to Beneficial Shareholders of
Omnibus Accounts.

An Omnibus Account may elect to have the Consultants (i) calculate the allocation in
accordance with the methodology of the Plan to each Beneficial Shareholder of such Omnibus
Account, and (ii) make distributions of such amounts to such Beneficial Shareholders. If the
Omnibus Account so elects to have the Consultants make the calculations and distributions
described in the previous sentence, the Omnibus Account shall comply with the provisions set
forth in subsection C of this paragraph 17.
Option 3:

Distribution by Omnibus Account with calculation assistance by
Consultants.

An Omnibus Account may elect to have the Consultants calculate the allocation among
Beneficial Shareholders of the Omnibus Account’s Distributable Share but to make the actual
distribution to Beneficial Shareholders itself. Such Omnibus Account will receive one check or
wire transfer for its Distributable Share with respect to that single Omnibus Account. If the
- 19 US1DOCS 5756741v4

Omnibus Account wishes to receive its distribution via wire transfer, a Payment Instruction Form
containing wiring instructions must be delivered to the Consultants no later than the forty-five
(45) days after the Approval Date.
The Omnibus Account shall provide the Consultants with data specified by the
Consultants sufficient to enable the Consultants to calculate a payment schedule for the
Beneficial Shareholders of the Omnibus Account but which only identifies the Beneficial
Shareholders by broker identification number or other identifying information. Upon receipt of
funds representing an Omnibus Account’s Distributable Share, the Omnibus Account shall
promptly distribute the funds to its Beneficial Shareholders in accordance with a payment
schedule prepared by the Consultants identifying each Beneficial Shareholder by broker
identification number or other identifying information supplied by the Omnibus Account. The
payment schedule prepared by the Consultants shall not provide for distributions to Beneficial
Shareholders if each such distribution is less than the De Minimis Amount. All distributions
shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days of the receipt of the funds from the
Qualified Settlement Fund. All distributions to a Retirement Account shall be made by check
and all checks delivered with respect to Retirement Accounts shall be made payable to the
trustee or custodian of the Retirement Account identified as the Beneficial Shareholder. All
distributions made with respect to IRA Accounts shall be accompanied or preceded by
instructions to the Record Owner as to how to handle the Distributable Share, such instructions
to be substantially in the form attached to this Plan as Exhibit F, as well as a copy of any
information letter received from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the IDC and the
staff of the Commission deem appropriate describing the tax consequences of receiving a
Distributable Share pursuant to the Plan with respect to such IRA Account. All distributions
made with respect to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts that are salary reduction only 403(b)
accounts shall be accompanied or preceded by instructions to the Record Owner as to how to
handle the Distributable Share, such instructions to be substantially in the form attached to this
Plan as Exhibit G(2), as well as a copy of any information letter received from the IRS, and such
additional tax disclosures as the IDC and the staff of the Commission deem appropriate
describing the tax consequences of receiving a Distributable Share pursuant to the Plan with
respect to such salary reduction only 403(b) account. All distributions made with respect to
Non-IRA Retirement Accounts that are Defined Benefit Plans shall be accompanied or preceded
by instructions to the Record Owner as to how to handle the Distributable Share, such
instructions to be substantially in the form attached to this Plan as Exhibit G(3), as well as a copy
of any information letter received from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the IDC
and the staff of the Commission deem appropriate describing the tax consequences of receiving a
Distributable Share pursuant to the Plan with respect to such Defined Benefit Plan. All
distributions made with respect to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts other than salary reduction
only 403(b) accounts and Defined Benefit Plans shall be accompanied by an instruction to the
administrator of such retirement plan that the distribution should be paid and applied in
accordance with the terms of its plan, ERISA and/or any other applicable law, such instructions
to be substantially in the form attached to this Plan as Exhibit G(1) , as well as a copy of any
information letter received from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the IDC and the
staff of the Commission deem appropriate. Distributions made by check to each Beneficial
Shareholder that is a Retirement Account shall be delivered to such Beneficial Shareholder’s
address of record as reflected on the books and records of the Omnibus Account unless such
Beneficial Shareholder, or person acting on behalf of such Beneficial Shareholder, has provided
- 20 US1DOCS 5756741v4

the Omnibus Account with a different address. Distributions by Omnibus Accounts may be
made by check or, if the Omnibus Account can make a distribution to its Beneficial Shareholders
by electronic funds transfer or by crediting amounts to a brokerage or cash management account,
the Omnibus Account may make the distribution by such methods as long as (i), prior to or
concurrently with the funds transfer or crediting of the brokerage or cash management account,
the Omnibus Account provides to its Beneficial Shareholders the notices required by this
paragraph 17 and (ii) all distributions to Retirement Accounts are made in accordance with the
requirements of the preceding paragraph and the Exhibits to this Plan other than the requirement
that the form of distribution be by check.
Each Omnibus Account selecting Option 3 shall certify to the IDC and MFS before
receiving any distribution that it can and will distribute the Distributable Shares to its Beneficial
Shareholders in accordance with the Plan. The receipt by the Omnibus Account of its
Distributable Share shall be deemed to constitute an agreement that such Omnibus Account will
further distribute such proceeds in accordance with the Plan. The Omnibus Account shall also be
deemed to have agreed to provide the IDC with such interim reports regarding the
implementation of the Plan by the Omnibus Account as the IDC shall reasonably request and that
within ten (10) days of the completion of the distributions, such Record Owner shall submit an
affidavit to the IDC and MFS attesting to (i) the proper distribution of funds to the Beneficial
Shareholder in accordance with the spreadsheet provided by the Consultants, and (ii) the delivery
of the proper disclosures as described in the previous paragraph. Any checks that have not been
cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days of issuance shall be cancelled and the amount
thereof shall be returned to the Qualified Settlement Fund and be treated as Residual
Distributions.
B.

Distributions to Network Level Accounts.

The Consultants will calculate the amount of the Distributable Share that should be
allocated to each Beneficial Shareholder of a Network Level Account. The networking firm that
is associated with a Network Level Account shall have two options for the making of
distributions to the Beneficial Shareholder of such Network level Account. The networking firm
that is associated with the Network Level Account must elect Option 1 or Option 2 below and
notify the Consultants in writing, postmarked within 45 days after the Approval Date of the
election option. Prior to making such election, authorized representatives of the networking firm
associated with a Network Level Account shall be entitled to consult with the Consultants as to
the information that will be required if Option 2 is selected and the format in which such
information must be delivered to the Consultants. The election must be in writing and delivered
to the Consultants at the address specified in paragraph 23. If no timely election is made, the
networking firm that is associated with the Network Level Account shall be deemed to have
elected Option 1.
Option 1:

Distribution of the Distributable Share by the Networking Firm Associated
with the Network Level Account

If the networking firm associated with a Network Level Account chooses to make the
distribution of its Distributable Share to the Beneficial Shareholders of the Network level
Account itself, such networking firm will receive one check or wire transfer representing the
- 21 US1DOCS 5756741v4

aggregate of all Distributable Shares to which the Network Level Accounts associated with such
networking firm is entitled under the Plan. If the networking firm associated with the Network
Level Account wishes to receive payment via wire transfer, such networking firm must deliver a
Payment Instruction Form to the Consultants containing wiring instructions no later than fortyfive (45) days after the Approval Date.
Upon receipt of funds representing a Network Level Account’s Distributable Share, the
networking firm associated with a Network Level Account shall promptly distribute the funds to
the Beneficial Shareholders of the applicable Network Level Accounts in accordance with a
payment schedule prepared by the Consultants identifying each Beneficial Shareholder by broker
identification number. The payment schedule prepared by the Consultants shall not provide for
distributions to Beneficial Shareholders if each such distribution is less than the De Minimis
Amount. All distributions shall be completed within one hundred eighty (180) days of the
receipt of the funds from the Qualified Settlement Fund. All distributions to a Retirement
Account shall be made by check and all checks delivered with respect to Retirement Accounts
shall be made payable to the trustee or custodian of the Retirement Account identified as the
Beneficial Shareholder. All distributions made with respect to IRA Accounts shall be
accompanied or preceded by instructions to the Record Owner as to how to handle the
Distributable Share, such instructions to be substantially in the form attached to this Plan as
Exhibit F, as well as a copy of any information letter received from the IRS, and such additional
tax disclosures as the IDC and the staff of the Commission deem appropriate describing the tax
consequences of receiving a Distributable Share pursuant to the Plan with respect to such IRA
Account. All distributions made with respect to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts that are salary
reduction only 403(b) accounts shall be accompanied or preceded by instructions to the Record
Owner as to how to handle the Distributable Share, such instructions to be substantially in the
form attached to this Plan as Exhibit G(2), as well as a copy of any information letter received
from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the IDC and the staff of the Commission
deem appropriate describing the tax consequences of receiving a Distributable Share pursuant to
the Plan with respect to such salary reduction only 403(b) account. All distributions made with
respect to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts that are Defined Benefit Plans shall be accompanied or
preceded by instructions to the Record Owner as to how to handle the Distributable Share, such
instructions to be substantially in the form attached to this Plan as Exhibit G(3), as well as a copy
of any information letter received from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the IDC
and the staff of the Commission deem appropriate describing the tax consequences of receiving a
Distributable Share pursuant to the Plan with respect to such Defined Benefit Plan. All
distributions made with respect to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts other than salary reduction
only 403(b) accounts and Defined Benefit Plans shall be accompanied by an instruction to the
administrator of such retirement plan that the distribution should be paid and applied in
accordance with the terms of its plan, ERISA and/or any other applicable law, and such
instructions to be substantially in the form attached to this Plan as Exhibit G(1), as well as a copy
of any information letter received from the IRS, and such additional tax disclosures as the IDC
and the staff of the Commission deem appropriate. Distributions made by check to each
Beneficial Shareholder that is a Retirement Account shall be delivered to such Beneficial
Shareholder’s address of record as reflected on the books and records of the networking firm
associated with the Network Level Account unless such Beneficial Shareholder, or person acting
on behalf of such Beneficial Shareholder, has provided the networking firm associated with the
Network Level Account with a different address. Distributions by networking firms associated
- 22 US1DOCS 5756741v4

with Network Accounts may be made by check or, if the networking firm associated with a
Network Level Account can make a distribution to the Beneficial Shareholders of the Network
Level Accounts by electronic funds transfer or by crediting amounts to a brokerage or cash
management account, the networking firm associated with a Network Level Account may make
the distribution by such methods as long as (i), prior to or concurrently with the funds transfer or
crediting of the brokerage or cash management account, the networking firm associated with the
Network Level Account provides to its Beneficial Shareholders the notices required by this
paragraph 17 and (ii) all distributions to Retirement Accounts are made in accordance with the
requirements of the preceding paragraph and the Exhibits to this Plan, other than the requirement
that the form of distribution be by check.
Each networking firm associated with a Network Level Account shall certify to the IDC
and MFS before receiving any distribution that it can and will distribute the Distributable Shares
to a Network Level Account’s its Beneficial Shareholders in accordance with the Plan. The
receipt by the networking firm of the Network Level Account’s Distributable Share shall be
deemed to constitute an agreement that such networking firm will further distribute such
proceeds in accordance with the Plan. The networking firm associated with the Network Level
Account shall also be deemed to have agreed to provide the IDC with such interim reports
regarding the implementation of the Plan by the Network Level Account as the IDC shall
reasonably request and that within ten (10) days of the completion of the distributions, such
Record Owner shall submit an affidavit to the IDC and MFS attesting to (i) the proper
distribution of funds to the Beneficial Shareholder in accordance with the spreadsheet provided
by the Consultants, and (ii) the delivery of the proper disclosures as described in the previous
paragraph. Any checks that have not been cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days of
issuance shall be cancelled and the amount thereof shall be returned to the Qualified Settlement
Fund and be treated as Residual Distributions.
Option 2:

Distributions by Consultants directly to Beneficial Shareholders of
Network Level Accounts.

A networking firm associated with a Network Level Account may elect to have the
Consultants make distributions directly to Beneficial Shareholders of the Network Level
Account. If the networking firm associated with the Network Level Account elects to have the
Consultants make the distributions described in the previous sentence, the networking firm shall
comply with the provisions set forth in subsection C of this paragraph 17.
C.

Procedures Related to Distributions Made by the Consultants to Beneficial
Shareholders on Behalf of Record Owners of Omnibus Accounts and Networking
Firm Associated with Network Level Accounts.

Consistent with the provisions of Section 17A. above, each Electing Omnibus or Network
Level Account shall provide the Consultants with the information regarding each Beneficial
Shareholder as the Consultants shall determine to be necessary in order to permit the Consultants
to calculate the amount of the Electing Omnibus or Network Level Account’s Distributable
Share which should be allocated to each Beneficial Shareholder of such account and to make the
distribution to such Beneficial Shareholders. An Electing Omnibus or Network Level Account

- 23 US1DOCS 5756741v4

must provide information identifying its Beneficial Shareholders, including any information
required to comply with the Qualified Settlement Fund’s IRS reporting obligations.
As soon as practicable after receipt of sufficient information from each Electing Omnibus
or Network Level Account, the Consultants shall complete such calculation and distribution. All
such information required by the Consultants to make the calculations and distributions
requested shall be in such format as Consultants shall reasonably request to permit such
calculation and distribution to be completed reasonably promptly. Each Electing Omnibus or
Network Level Account shall provide the IDC and the Consultants with an affidavit verifying
that such Person has provided all information requested. If an Electing Omnibus or Network
Level Account has requested that the Consultants make such calculation and distribution but
have failed to deliver to the Consultants the information necessary to complete such calculation
and distribution within forty-five (45) days after the by which Option 1, 2 or 3 must be selected,
the Electing Omnibus or Network Level Account shall be deemed instead to have elected Option
1 and will receive a check for its Distributable Share and will be responsible for making
distributions to the Beneficial Shareholders of such accounts.
Consultants shall keep any information received from each Electing Omnibus or Network
Level Account pursuant to this subsection C of paragraph 17 confidential from MFS and any
other party, except as required by law or as permitted by such Electing Omnibus or Network
Level Account, and in any event will not use such information for any purpose other than
implementing this Plan. If necessary, the Consultants will enter into a separate confidentiality
agreement with an Electing Omnibus or Network Level Account upon terms reasonably
satisfactory to the parties. All correspondence by an Electing Omnibus or Network Level
Account relating to the Plan shall be directed to Consultants at the address below.
18.
General Rules Applicable to Distributions. The following general rules shall apply to all
distributions under this Plan:
(a)
All checks must be cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days after the check is
originally issued; after 180 days all checks shall be cancelled and the amount so cancelled shall
be returned to the Qualified Settlement Fund as Residual Distributions. In the event that a
financial intermediary that no longer has a service relationship with a Retirement Account
complies with its obligations under the FAB but is unable to transfer the distribution from the
Qualified Settlement Fund to the plan sponsor or fiduciary, the financial intermediary shall return
the distribution with respect to such Retirement Account to the Qualified Settlement Fund as
Residual Distributions no later than the earlier of (i) 180 days after receipt of the distribution
from the Qualified Settlement Fund and (ii) the date on which the financial intermediary
determines that it has satisfied its obligations under the FAB and is not able to transfer the
distribution to the plan sponsor or fiduciary. If the Qualified Settlement Fund makes a
distribution to a financial intermediary with respect to a Retirement Account and the financial
intermediary is unable to make distributions as contemplated by the Plan because of operational
limitations that make such distribution impracticable or require expenditures that are
disproportionate to the Retirement Plan’s Distributable Share, such financial intermediary may
either (a) make such distribution on the basis of monthly, quarterly, semi-annual or annual data
(but otherwise in accordance with this Plan) or (b) if (a) is not practicable or requires

- 24 US1DOCS 5756741v4

disproportionate expenditures, reallocate the distribution among its other affected clients or
otherwise handle in accordance with the FAB.
(b)
The Consultants shall use their commercially reasonable efforts (which shall entail at
least an attempt) to trace Record Owners with respect to checks that have been returned as
undeliverable and to deliver such checks to the extent practicable in the applicable time period,
provided that none of MFS, the Consultants, any Omnibus Account or a networking firm
associated with a Network Level Account shall be required (i) to take any action to locate any
account as to which any check or notice mailed in accordance to this Plan is returned as
undeliverable unless the amount of the distribution to such Person is over $25.00 or (ii) to make
more than one attempt to locate the Record Owner or Beneficial Shareholder as to which any
check or notice mailed in accordance to this Plan is returned as undeliverable for amounts in
excess thereof. After such required efforts, checks which are undeliverable or remain uncashed
180 days after the check is issued shall be cancelled and the amount so cancelled shall be
returned to the Qualified Settlement Fund as Residual Distributions.
(c)
Any request for a wire transfer in an amount less that $100.00, may be assessed a
customary fee for wire transfers.
(d)
None of MFS, the Consultants, any Omnibus Account or a networking firm associated
with a Network Level Account shall make any distribution to any Record Owner or a Beneficial
Shareholder in an amount less than the De Minimis Amount.
(e)
In the case of Network Level Accounts, notwithstanding any language to the contrary
contained in this Plan, the Person responsible for receiving distributions and notices for further
distribution to the Beneficial Shareholders of the Network Level Account (and taking other
actions under the Plan with respect to a Network Level account) is the networking firm
associated with the Network Level Account even if it is not the Record Owner of the Network
Level Account. The IDC may, however, in certain circumstances and in his discretion,
determine to require the Record Owner of the Network Level Account, rather than the
networking firm associated with the Network Level Account (if not the Record Owner) to take
such actions under the Plan. In such cases, references to a networking firm associated with a
Network Level Account in paragraphs 17(B) and (C) and elsewhere in this Plan shall include
references to the Record Owner to the extent that the Record Owner, rather than the networking
firm associated with the Network Level Account, will be processing the distribution.
(f)
If a Network Level Account converted to an Omnibus Account during the Period, or vice
versa, the Network Level Account and the Omnibus Account may be treated as two separate
Record Owners for purposes of this Plan and the Distributable Shares shall not be required to be
combined.
(g)
Any Omnibus Account that believes any of its Beneficial Shareholders are Disqualified
Persons shall send to such Beneficial Shareholder a notice in the form attached as Exhibit E and
shall return the amount otherwise payable to such Beneficial Shareholders relating to activities
that resulted in the Beneficial Shareholder being classified as a Disqualified Person to the
Qualified Settlement Fund as Residual Distributions.

- 25 US1DOCS 5756741v4

(h)
Neither the Qualified Settlement Fund nor any Omnibus Account or networking firm
associated with a Network Level Account shall be required to send any notices or checks in
payment of distributions to an address known to the Consultant or MFS Service Center or the
relevant Omnibus Account or networking firm associated with a Network Level Account, as
applicable, to have generated returned, undeliverable mail after using commercially reasonable
efforts to trace a Record Owner or Beneficial Shareholder. Any checks which are undeliverable
shall be cancelled and the amount so cancelled shall be returned to the Qualified Settlement Fund
as Residual Distributions.
(i)
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the IDC shall not commence the
distribution of the Distributable Amount under Part IV of this Plan prior to the receipt of the
Internal Revenue Service private letter ruling relating to the Qualified Settlement Fund.
Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the IDC shall not be required to commence
the distribution of the Distributable Amount under Part IV of this Plan until the Trigger Date.
The IDC will use his best efforts to commence the distribution process on the Trigger Date and
will use all reasonable efforts to complete the distribution promptly. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, in the event any Internal Revenue Service tax ruling requires reporting of all or a
portion of the payments, the IDC will use his best efforts to commence the distribution process
no later than three months after the date of such Internal Revenue Service tax ruling. In addition,
the periods in paragraph 17 during which Omnibus Accounts and Network Level Accounts must
elect distribution options set forth in such paragraph shall not commence until the Trigger Date.
The IDC may defer any other action required to be taken after the Approval Date until the
Trigger Date if the IDC determines such delay to be consistent with the objectives of this Plan.
(j)
The Exhibits to this Plan, including the notices, attached as Exhibits F, G(1), G(2) and
G(3) may be modified, with the consent of the IDC and the staff of the Commission, in order to
facilitate the implementation of this Plan, including to reflect the specific distribution
arrangements being implemented by the Omnibus Accounts or networking firm associated with
Network Level Accounts.
19.
Verification of Data and Calculations; Limitation on Liability; Hold Harmless. At the
direction of the IDC, MFS has taken and shall take such steps as are reasonable to verify the
accuracy of the data referred to herein, and that such amounts conform in all material respects to
this Plan and the Order. The IDC shall not have any liability to any Record Owner, Beneficial
Shareholder or other Person submitting a Proof of Possible Entitlement, Dispute Form or
otherwise in connection with the development or implementation of the Plan. The IDC and
Consultants had and shall have no involvement in or responsibility or liability whatsoever for the
payment or investment of the Settlement Amount. None of the Qualified Settlement Fund, MFS,
the IDC or the Consultants shall be liable to an indirect shareholder in any Fund in the event
payment of a Distributable Share is made to the Record Owner through which the shareholder
holds an interest in a Fund and such Record Owner does not make a payment to the indirect
shareholder or fails to follow the methodology specified by the Plan. If a Person held its interest
in any of the Funds at any time in the Period in the form of certificates which have been
transferred, and such transfer was not duly recorded with MFS Service Center, none of the
Qualified Settlement Fund, MFS, the IDC or the Consultants shall be liable to such Person in the
event payment of a Distributable Share is made to the Record Owner of such certificates and the
holder of the certificates shall look only to the Record Owner for any payment. No person shall
- 26 US1DOCS 5756741v4

have any claim against the IDC or Consultants or other agent designated by the IDC based on
data provided to the IDC or Consultants by MFS or any other third party, or based on
distributions made substantially in accordance with the Plan, or in accordance with further orders
from the Commission or its authorized representatives, or otherwise in accordance with law.
Other than to the IDC and the Consultants or as specifically provided for in the Plan, MFS shall
not have any liability to any person or entity in excess of the Settlement Amount, which amount
has already been paid in full, in connection with the Qualified Settlement Fund or the
implementation of the Plan.
20.
Residual Distributions. Subject to prior approval by the IDC in each instance, any
Residual Distributions shall be available on a pro rata basis (based on the dollar value of such
potential entitlement) to (a) Omnibus Accounts the Distributable Share of which is increased
pursuant to paragraph 8(g), (b) Disqualified Beneficiaries if they are determined in a nonappealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction to be entitled to be compensated for
losses due to late trading or market timing activities in the Funds, or if the IDC determines that a
settlement of the proceeding that resulted in Disqualified Beneficiaries being deemed
Disqualified Beneficiaries should not be deemed to be an admission that such persons were
Disqualified Beneficiaries, but only up to the amounts such Persons would have received if they
were not Disqualified Beneficiaries, and (c) any Person that submitted a Proof of Possible
Entitlement or Dispute Form to the IDC, which Proof of Possible Entitlement or Dispute Form
was either (i) rejected by the IDC, if the Proof of Possible Entitlement or Dispute Form is
determined to be valid in a non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction or in a
settlement of the kind described in the previous clause (b) (or if no Proof of Possible Entitlement
or Dispute Form was timely submitted, if a court of competent jurisdiction nevertheless finds
such Person entitled to a payment) (the forgoing references in this paragraph 20 to a court of
competent jurisdiction are not intended to confer, and shall not confer, jurisdiction upon any
court or to agree to the jurisdiction of any court) or (ii) approved (or approved in part) by the
IDC. Notwithstanding the forgoing, no later than 365 days after the Transfer Date, the IDC may
establish a reserve to provide for estimated distributions that may be required under clauses (a),
(b) and (c) above and, subject to prior approval of the IDC, any unreserved Residual
Distributions shall be distributed (on such date as the IDC shall determine) pro rata to the Funds,
based on each Fund’s percentage of Losses estimated from all Funds during the Period. If any
Fund has been or shall be merged into or transferred substantially all of its assets to a successor
fund prior to the distribution of the Residual Distributions, its portion of the Residual
Distributions shall be paid to the successor entity of such merger or asset transfer. If any Fund
has been or shall be liquidated prior to such distribution of the Residual Distributions, its portion
of the Residual Distribution Funds shall be paid pro rata to the remaining Funds (or successors)
based on each Fund’s percentage of Losses estimated for such remaining Funds. In the event
that any amount reserved for distributions pursuant to clauses (a), (b) or (c) above are determined
by the IDC not to be required to fund such distributions, such amounts shall be released from the
reserve and distributed to the Funds as provided in this paragraph 20.
21.
Application of Payments from Other Plans. Persons whom the Commission determines
participated in alleged late trading and market timing may enter into settlements with the
Commission or may be subject to orders of courts or other governmental authorities or other
distribution plans similar to this Plan directing or permitting such persons to make payments to
the Qualified Settlement Fund. The Other Plan Administrator making an Other Plan Payment to
- 27 US1DOCS 5756741v4

the Qualified Settlement Fund may request or direct that the Other Plan Payment be distributed
by the Qualified Settlement Fund in a specific manner. In the event that the Qualified Settlement
Fund receives any Other Plan Payment a reasonable period (as determined by the IDC) prior to
the Approval Date, the IDC is authorized, in the IDC’s discretion, to (i) allocate and distribute
such payments in accordance with this Plan, or (ii) to allocate and distribute such payments in
accordance with the instructions of the Other Plan Administrator. Any distribution of any Other
Plan Payment by the Qualified Settlement Fund shall be subject to the policies incorporated into
this Plan, including the limitations on distributions of any De Minimis Amount. If the
Distributable Share of Record Owners has already been calculated when the Other Plan Payment
is received, the IDC shall cause the Other Plan Payment to be distributed as if it were a Residual
Distribution under paragraph 20 or in such other manner that the IDC determines to be
appropriate and consistent with the purposes of this Plan. In the event that the Other Plan
Administrator directs the Qualified Settlement Fund to distribute any Other Plan Payment in a
manner that the IDC determines to be inconsistent with the purposes of this Plan, the IDC is
authorized to make such adjustments to the proposed distribution of the Other Plan Payment as
the IDC shall determine to be consistent with this Plan and appropriate in light of the
circumstances.
22.
Termination of Plan. This Plan shall terminate upon the later of the final distribution of
all Residual Distributions as provided in paragraph 20 and the final accounting by the Fund
Administrator has been submitted and approved by the Commission. Prior to the termination of
the Plan, the IDC and the Tax Administrator shall cooperate so that the Plan shall adequately
reserve amounts for tax liabilities and the cost of tax compliance.
23.
Notices. All notices required to be delivered hereunder to the Commission shall be
delivered to this address:
Office of Financial Management
Securities and Exchange Commission
Operations Center
6432 General Green Way
Alexandria, Stop 0-3, VA 22312
under cover letter that identified MFS as a Respondent and the file number of the proceedings, a
copy of which cover letter was sent to
David P. Bergers
Associate District Administrator
Boston District Office
Securities and Exchange Commission
33 Arch Street
Boston, MA 02110-1424
and to the IDC at this address:
John C. Coates IV
c/o Rust Consulting, Inc.
- 28 US1DOCS 5756741v4

P.O. Box 1828
Faribault, MN 55021-1876
and to Consultants at this address:
Rust Consulting, Inc.
P.O. Box 1828
Faribault, MN 55021-1876
All notices required to be delivered to the IDC and Consultants hereunder shall be delivered to
the respective above address, with copies to the Commission at the above addresses.
MFS shall receive a copy of all notices to any of the Commission, the IDC, or the Consultants.
All notices required to be delivered hereunder to MFS shall be delivered to this address:
Massachusetts Financial Services Company
500 Boylston Street
Boston, MA 02166
Attn: General Counsel
with copies to the IDC and the Commission at the above addresses.

- 29 US1DOCS 5756741v4

Submitted on: June , 2006

By:
John C. Coates IV

Independent Distribution Consultant for Massachusetts Financial Services, Inc.

- 30 US1DOCS 5756741v4

EXHIBITS

Exhibit A

─

Summary of Loss Model

Exhibit B

─

Notice Pursuant to Paragraph 9

Exhibit C

─

Proof of Possible Entitlement

Exhibit D

─

Dispute Form

Exhibit E

─

Notice to Disqualified Beneficiary

Exhibit F

─

Instructions and Tax Disclosure to Holders of Individual Retirement
Accounts

Exhibit G(1)

─

Instructions and Tax Disclosure to Non-IRA Retirement Account Other
than Salary Reduction Only 403(b) Accounts and Defined Benefit Plans

Exhibit G(2)

─

Instructions and Tax Disclosure to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts that are
Salary Reduction Only 403(b) Accounts

Exhibit G(3)

─

Instructions and Tax Disclosure to Non-IRA Retirement Accounts that are
Defined Benefit Plans

- 31 US1DOCS 5756741v4

ANNEX A
Definitions
“Additional Amounts” mean Other Plan Payments which are paid into the Qualified Settlement
Fund by a Person that agrees in writing for the benefit of MFS to pay such portion of the costs of
distribution contemplated by the Plan, such portion to be reasonably determined by the IDC.
“Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary” means any Record Owner subject to any proceeding
pending before a court or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction at the time the calculation of
Distributable Shares pursuant to paragraph 8 of the Plan in which the Record Owner is alleged
by the Commission or any other party to have engaged in behavior affecting the Funds in the
Period that would constitute unlawful behavior if such allegations were true, and the IDC
determines that such alleged behavior is likely to have caused Losses if such allegations are true.
“Approval Date” means the date on which the Commission enters an order approving the Plan.
“Beneficial Shareholder” means any Person (i) who during the Period is the beneficial holder of
an interest in an Omnibus Account if such interest is reflected in the records maintained by the
Record Owners of such Omnibus Account or (ii) who during the Period is the beneficial owner
of an account designated as a Network Level Account as identified by the broker identification
number (BIN) or other unique identifier corresponding to the account if reflected in the records
available to both the Fund and the networking firm associated with the Network Level Account.
For purposes of the Plan, a Retirement Account and not the underlying plan participants or
beneficiaries shall be treated as the Beneficial Shareholder.
“Code” means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and regulations and rulings thereunder, as
they may be amended from time to time.
“Commission” means the Securities and Exchange Commission (or successors thereto).
“Consultants” means, collectively, Rust and ERS; provided that the IDC may substitute any
consultant at any time or to cause additional consultants to be engaged to perform some or all of
the work to be performed by the Consultants under the Plan.
“Defined Benefit Plan” means a defined benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(35) of
ERISA or Section 414(j) of the Code.
“De Minimis Amount” means $10.00; provided, however, if the Record Owner is an Omnibus
Account, the De Minimis Amount applied to such Record Owner in paragraph 8(e) shall be
$1,000.
“Disqualified Beneficiary” means any Record Owner has either (a) been found in a final and
non-appealable order of a court or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction to have engaged in
unlawful behavior affecting the Funds during the Period, (b) entered into a settlement of any
proceeding before a court or regulatory body in which such unlawful behavior has been alleged,
unless the IDC determines that the settlement should not be deemed an admission of such
unlawful behavior, or (c) admitted in writing to such behavior as provided in paragraph 12.
- 32 US1DOCS 5756741v4

“Disqualified Person” means any Disqualified Beneficiary, Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary
or Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary.
“Distributable Amount” means: (i) $225,629,142.87 plus (ii) interest, if any, actually earned on
the foregoing amounts through the Approval Date plus (iii) any Eligible Distributable Amounts
less (iv) any federal, state or local taxes imposed on the Settlement Amount. Amounts sufficient
to cover any taxes owed on the interest earned on the Settlement Amount as of the time of the
distributions under the Plan shall be set aside and not distributed. Any earnings on the amounts
set aside to pay applicable taxes shall be distributed, net of taxes owing on such earnings, as part
of the Distributable Amount.
“Distributable Share” means a positive number representing the amount determined as the
Distributable Share of any Record Owner as calculated pursuant to paragraph 8.
“Electing Omnibus or Network Level Account” means any Omnibus Account that elects Option
2 or Option 3 under paragraph 17A and any networking firm that is associated with a Network
Level Account that elects Option 2 under paragraph 17B.
“Eligible Distributable Amount” means all Additional Amounts received by the Qualified
Settlement Fund prior to the calculation of Distributable Shares pursuant to paragraph 8.
“ERISA” means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 and regulations, rulings
and other guidance issued thereunder, as they may be amended from time to time.
“ERS” means ERS Group, Inc. (an affiliate of Rust), experts in the economic analysis of large
data sets.
“Escrow Bank” means Deutsche Bank or such other bank as shall be selected by the IDC and
determined to be acceptable by the staff of the Commission.
“Fee Allocation” has the meaning set forth in paragraph 6.
“Fund Administrator” means Rust, the entity proposed by the IDC to serve as the administrator
of the Qualified Settlement Fund.
“Funds” means, collectively, MFS Emerging Growth Fund, MFS Research Fund, MFS Value
Fund, Massachusetts Investors Trust, Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund, MFS Total
Return Fund, MFS Government Securities Fund, MFS Government Mortgage Fund, MFS Bond
Fund, MFS Money Market Fund, and MFS Cash Reserve Fund.
“IDC” means Professor John C. Coates IV, the Independent Distribution Consultant retained by
MFS pursuant to the terms of the Order.
“Indirect Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary” means any Beneficial Shareholder subject to any
proceeding pending before a court or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction at the time the
calculation of Distributable Shares pursuant to paragraph 8 of the Plan in which the Beneficial
Shareholder is alleged by the Commission or any other party to have engaged in behavior
affecting the Funds in the Period that would constitute unlawful behavior if such allegations were
- 33 US1DOCS 5756741v4

true, and the IDC determines that such alleged behavior is likely to have caused Losses if such
allegations are true.
“Indirect Disqualified Beneficiary” means any Beneficial Shareholder which has either (a) been
found in a final and non-appealable order of a court or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction
to have engaged in unlawful behavior affecting the Funds in the Period, (b) has entered into a
settlement of any proceeding before a court or regulatory body in which such unlawful behavior
has been alleged, unless the IDC determines that the settlement should not be deemed an
admission of such unlawful behavior, or (c) admitted in writing to such. The determinations of
the IDC shall be conclusive as to a Beneficial Shareholder’s entitlement to participate in a
payment under the Plan.
“Indirect Disqualified Person” means any Indirect Disqualified Beneficiary, Indirect Allegedly
Disqualified Person or any Indirect Potentially Disqualified Person.
“Indirect Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary” means any Beneficial Shareholder as to which the
analysis undertaken to determine Losses indicates that the Beneficial Shareholder is likely to
have engaged in unlawful conduct that caused Losses that are material (in the good faith
judgment of the IDC). The IDC in his discretion may designate such Beneficial Shareholder as a
“Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary” based upon such criteria that he may establish from time
to time.
“IRA Account” means any individual retirement account or annuity established pursuant to
Section 408 or Section 408A of the Code, including individual retirement accounts established in
connection with a simplified employee pension plan (“SEP”) or a SIMPLE plan.
“Loss Allocation” has the meaning set forth in paragraph 6.
“Losses” means the amount of losses suffered by the Funds arising out of late trading and other
market timing activity during the Period, as determined by the IDC.
“MFS” means Massachusetts Financial Services Company.
“MFS Service Center” means MFS Service Center, Inc., the transfer agent for each of the Funds.
“MFS Funds” means registered investment companies for which MFS is the investment adviser.
“MFS Respondents” means MFS, John W. Ballen and Kevin R. Parke.
“Network Level Account” means an account during the Period controlled by a broker and
designated as a Network Level 3 Account, Network Level 2 Account or a Network Level 1
Account as defined by the National Securities Clearing Corporation; provided that any account
which is both a Network Level Account and an Omnibus Account shall be deemed to be an
Omnibus Account for purposes of the Plan. MFS Service Center shall determine in its sole
discretion the identity of the Network Level Accounts. In general, with respect to such Network
Level Accounts, certain account information, but not the identity of the beneficial owner of the
account, is maintained on the records of MFS Service Center, but other account information,

- 34 US1DOCS 5756741v4

including the identity of the beneficial owner of the account is maintained by the broker of
record.
“Non-IRA Retirement Accounts” means any account maintained by any “retirement plan” that is
not an IRA Account. For purposes of this definition, a “retirement plan” means any “employee
benefit plan” within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA, whether or not subject to Title I of
ERISA, and any “plan” within the meaning of Section 4975 of the Code, whether or not subject
thereto, which includes governmental plans, church plans, non-qualified deferred compensation
plans and non-U.S. retirement plans or arrangements.
“Omnibus Account” means an account registered in the name of a broker-dealer or other
financial intermediary which holds shares as the Record Owner for the benefit of more than one
Beneficial Shareholder and for which any of the MFS Funds have made payments for
administrative services (which services include the maintaining of beneficial owner-level
records) during the Period pursuant to an agreement with MFS, MFS Service Center or an MFS
Fund. MFS Service Center shall determine in its sole discretion the identity of the Omnibus
Accounts. For purposes of this Plan, no Retirement Account shall be treated as an Omnibus
Account, but a single account of a Fund maintained by a third party administrator with respect to
multiple retirement plans and for which any of the MFS Funds have made payments for
administrative services shall be deemed to be an Omnibus Account.
“Order” means the Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-And-Desist Proceedings Pursuant
to Sections 203(e), 203(f) And 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act Of 1940 and Sections 9(b)
and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act Of 1940, Making Findings, And Imposing Remedial
Sanctions And A Cease-And-Desist Order, entered by the Commission on February 5, 2004.
“Other Plan” means any settlement fund, other than the Qualified Settlement Fund, established to
remediate losses arising out of late trading or market timing in the Funds or other investment
companies.
“Other Plan Administrator” means the administrator, distribution consultant or person acting in a
similar capacity with respect to any Other Plan.
“Other Plan Payment” means a distribution to the Qualified Settlement Fund from an Other Plan.
“Period” means, as to each Fund, the time period specified as to such Fund on Exhibit A to the
Plan.
“Person” means an individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, business trust,
joint stock company, trust, unincorporated association, joint venture or other entity of whatever
nature.
“Plan” means this Plan of Distribution as developed by the IDC and approved by the
Commission.
“Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary” has the meaning set forth in paragraph 14.

- 35 US1DOCS 5756741v4

“Proof of Possible Entitlement” means the Proof of Possible Entitlement form attached hereto as
Exhibit C.
“Publication Date” means the date on which notice of this Plan is published on the
Commission’s website.
“Qualified Settlement Fund” means the fund created as a result of the payment of the Settlement
Amount to the Commission by the MFS Respondents.
“Record Owner” means the Person identified by the books and records of any Fund as the
registered owner of the Fund’s Shares in an account of the Fund during the Period. For purposes
of the Plan, any Retirement Account appearing on the books and records of a Fund as the
registered owner of Shares of the Fund during the Period shall be treated as the ultimate
beneficiary of any Distributable Share to which such Retirement Account is eligible.
“Record Owner’s Losses” means that portions of the Losses suffered by any particular Record
Owner.
“Residual Distribution” means (i) any amount that has not been claimed (i.e., any check that has
not been cashed by the Record Owner or Beneficial Shareholder) within one hundred eighty days
(180) days of issuance and has been cancelled, (ii) any additional amount specifically directed in
any court order or settlement (other than the Order) to be included as Residual Distributions, (iii)
interest on the Settlement that accrues after the Approval Date, (iv) Additional Amounts other
than Eligible Distributable Amounts and (v) other amounts that are otherwise deemed to be
Residual Distribution pursuant to the Plan.
“Retirement Accounts” means any IRA Account or a Non IRA Retirement Account.
“Rust” means Rust Consulting, Inc., experts in the development and implementation of plans for
the distribution of settlement funds.
“Settlement Amount” means the $225,629,142.87 paid by the MFS Respondents to the
Commission in connection with the Order.
“Shares” means any and all shares, units, interests, participations or other equivalents
representing ownership interests in a Fund.
“Transfer Date” means the date of the initial distribution of payments from the Qualified
Settlement Fund.
“Trigger Date” means the date that shall be 14 days after the latest to occur of (i) the Approval
Date and (ii) the delivery of all tax rulings (including ruling necessary to provide shareholders
with appropriate tax disclosure) from the Internal Revenue Service in connection with the
distribution of a fair funds settlement.

- 36 US1DOCS 5756741v4

ANNEX B
Qualifications of the Fund Administrator and Reasons for Waiver of Bond Requirement
The Fund Administrator has provided information regarding the Fund Administrator and its
procedures to the IDC for inclusion in this Annex.
1.

Qualifications of the Fund Administrator and Custody Procedures

The Fund Administrator specializes in claims administration and the development and
implementation of plans for the distribution of settlement funds, and has administered more than
500 cases worth billions of dollars with class sizes ranging from 80 class members to more than
100 million. It has handled both large distributions (including some of the largest in the claims
administration industry) and smaller settlements. Over the past three years alone, the Fund
Administrator has distributed approximately $1.8 billion in settlement disbursements to
approximately 9.6 million recipients without incident. It has been in existence since 1976 and it
never had any occurrence of employee or vendor problems or claims against its Errors &
Omissions insurance due to employee theft or dishonesty.
2.

Custody / Risk Protection

The Plan provides that money from the Qualified Settlement Fund, which is currently being held
in the U.S. Treasury Bureau of Public Debt (BPD), would be transferred to one or more escrow
accounts to be established by Qualified Settlement Fund at the Escrow Bank, no more than two
business days prior to the date on which checks would be mailed to beneficiaries, and that on
behalf of the Qualified Settlement Fund, the Fund Administrator would manage the printing and
mailing of checks that would be drawn on those escrow accounts, subject to procedures
described below to protect against misappropriation. The Fund Administrator will oversee the
check printing process and rely on a third-party check-printing vendor. The Fund Administrator
has informed the IDC that it would be cost-prohibitive to obtain a bond that would (absent a
waiver by the Commission) be required by the Commission's Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans.
3.

Relevant Specifics Regarding the Distribution

Because the distribution of the Qualified Settlement Fund will take place in several steps, rather
than all at once, the Plan makes explicit that monies will be transferred from the BPD to the
Escrow Bank two business days before each of those steps, minimizing the amount of time that
the monies are held pending actual distribution to beneficiaries. The Fund Administrator
currently contemplates that the steps in the distribution of the Qualified Settlement Fund will
include:
•

Initial check mailings to retail holders and other direct record owners (“direct accounts”)
in at least three “blocks” or “tranches”.

•

Distributions to Omnibus Accounts and Network Level Accounts, which will not be
transferred from the Qualified Settlement Fund to the Escrow Bank until the Omnibus
- 37 -

US1DOCS 5756741v4

Account or Network Level Account is prepared to complete the further distribution of
any payment they receive under the Plan to its Beneficial Shareholders.
As a result, much less than the full amount of the Qualified Settlement Fund will ever be in the
control of the Escrow Bank and/or the Fund Administrator.
4.

Databases

The Fund Administrator’s databases are configured so that modifications can only be made to
data through programs; individuals are not allowed direct access to underlying production
databases. Only designated individuals with security clearances at the Fund Administrator can
access data used in completing the distribution. If an individual has security clearance to make
changes in data (e.g., to update an address through an on-line screen), all original data (e.g., the
original address) is automatically maintained by the Fund Administrator’s systems, and the
system records the identity of the individual who made the change. Individuals cannot alter
award amounts. Duties are segregated: award calculations are separate from the preparation of
checks, which is in turn separate from submission of files to a bank, so that no individual or
working team could affect more than one of these processes.
5.

Printing of Checks and Transferring of Wires

A "positive pay file" will be used for clearing checks at the Escrow Bank, and will be provided to
the Escrow Bank separately from the physical checks themselves. The Escrow Bank will clear
only checks matching entries in the positive pay file and for the amount in the file. When checks
are printed, a reconciliation report will be provided which lists the total number of checks and
sequenced numbers printed. These totals will be compared to the total records from the payment
file to confirm all checks were printed. Printed checks will be kept in a secured area until they
are mailed and are generally printed just in time for mailing. Only authorized individuals will be
allowed access to the check area for printing and performing quality control procedures.
Processing of the mailing of checks will subject to appropriate security procedures. For wires,
the Fund Administrator will provide the Escrow Bank with wire transfer instructions signed by
both the IDC and an authorized representative of the Fund Administrator. Wire instructions
received by the Escrow Bank will be reviewed by an administrative employee of the Escrow
Bank for content, required signatures and all necessary data. The administrative employee will
input the instructions into the Escrow Bank's computer system, and an Officer of the Escrow
Bank will compare the computer entries to the original wire instructions before giving final
approval on the transfer.
6.

Additional Risk Protection

The Escrow Bank, which will hold Plan assets during the check-cashing period, maintains a
Financial Institutions (FI) Bond including errors and omissions coverage with an aggregate limit
of 200 MM Euro. The primary insurer is American International Group, which, as of its most
recent renewal, was rated A+ by A.M. Best. The Escrow Bank has 200 MM Euro of E&O
insurance. In addition, the Escrow Bank has a bankers blanket bond of 250 MM Euro from
Chubb (which is rated A++ by A.M. Best), which the Escrow Bank has advised the IDC includes
coverage for wrongful acts (i.e., an act, errors and omissions, misstatement etc.) or failure to
- 38 US1DOCS 5756741v4

safeguard proprietary information in connection with rendering of professional services. The
Fund Administrator has $10 million in E&O insurance, as well as $2 million fiduciary insurance.
The Escrow Bank annually assesses the adequacy of its policy limits through extensive analysis
of historical loss data, exposure to loss and internal company controls.
The Fund Administrator maintains and will continue to maintain until termination of Plan, an
errors and omissions insurance policy. The primary insurer, Illinois Union Insurance Co, is a
company which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated A+ by A.M. Best. The policy is in the
amount of $10 million per occurrence. The Fund Administrator also maintains, and will
continue to maintain until termination of Plan, a fiduciary insurance policy. The primary insurer,
St. Paul Companies, is a company which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated A+ by A.M.
Best. The policy is in the amount of $2 million per occurrence. The Fund Administrator’s print
vendor maintains and will continue to maintain until termination of Plan, an errors and omissions
insurance policy. The primary insurer, Illinois Union Insurance Company, is a company which,
as of its most recent renewal, was rated A+by A.M. Best. The policy is in the amount of $40
million per occurrence. Under the Plan of Distribution, at no time will there be funds under the
custody and control of the Fund Administrator that exceed the amount covered by insurance.
Certificates of insurance for these policies have been provided to the assigned SEC staff for
review and have been deemed “not unacceptable.”

- 39 US1DOCS 5756741v4

EXHIBIT A
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL

The Order requires a distribution based on (a) “losses” arising out of “late trading” and “other
market timing activity” or (b) to the extent that such losses are less than the Settlement Amount,
advisory fees paid by the Funds for advisory services during the Period. “Losses” have been
estimated for the 11 Funds listed below for the period beginning on the date a Fund began
including certain disclosures relating to MFS’s policies regarding market timing (specified in the
Order) in its prospectus (such dates listed below) and ending on October 31, 2003. The
Settlement Amount is fixed by the Order, and is not affected by estimates of Losses under the
plan. Certain capitalized terms used in this exhibit are defined in Annex A to the Plan.
The Funds consist of:
Five large-cap domestic equity Funds (Equity Funds):
•
•
•
•
•

MFS Emerging Growth Fund (MEG) (Period begins 4/1/00);
MFS Research Fund (MFR) (Period begins 2/1/00);
MFS Value Fund (EIF) (Period begins 1/1/00);
Massachusetts Investors Trust (MIT) (Period begins 5/1/00);
Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund (MIG) (Period begins 4/1/00);

One “blended” fund (60% large-cap domestic equity, 40% bond):
• MFS Total Return Fund (MTR) (Period begins 2/1/00);
•
Three bond funds (the Bond Funds):
•
•
•

MFS Government Securities Fund (MFG) (Period begins 7/1/99);
MFS Government Mortgage Fund (MGP) (Period begins 12/1/99);
MFS Bond Fund (MFB) (Period begins 9/1/99); and,

Two money market funds (the Money Market Funds):
•
•

MFS Money Market Fund (LMM) (Period begins 1/1/00); and
MFS Cash Reserves Fund (MCM) (Period begins 1/1/00).
I.

Estimated Losses from Frequent Trading

Losses from frequent trading are estimated on a day-by-day basis for each Fund. These
estimated losses (Losses) equal estimated Dilution and Related Losses from Excess Trades plus
estimated Other Losses, each as defined below.
A-1
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT A
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL

II.

Estimates of Dilution and Related Losses from Excess Trades

Estimates of Dilution Related Losses from Excess Trades equal Net Trading Profits on Excess
Trades plus Net Investment Losses Incurred by the Fund on Excess Trades, each as defined
below.
Excess Trades are all Roundtrip Trades after the third Roundtrip Trade in an Account in a
calendar year.
Roundtrip Trades are defined as exchange purchases and exchange redemptions of Class A
shares of at least $100,000 in any Account matched within 30 days using a last-in, first-out
methodology. For Large Omnibus Accounts, all transactions identified as “buys,” “sells,”
“trades” or “purchases” of Class A shares involving at least $100,000 for each subaccount in the
data provided by the nominal account holders to Consultants were matched with opposite-way
transactions within 30 days using a last-in, first-out methodology.
Accounts are separate individual or institutional accounts as reflected on the books and records
of the Funds, except with respect to Large Omnibus Accounts, for which Accounts are the
separate individual or institutional accounts as reflected on the books and records of the
institution that is the nominal account holder as reflected on the books of the Funds, as provided
by such nominal account holders to Consultants.
Large Omnibus Accounts are the four largest Omnibus Accounts, based on assets as of July 1,
2004.
(1)

Net Trading Profits on Excess Trades

Net Trading Profits equal the Profits realized on Excess Trades during the Period.
More specifically, Net Trading Profits for each Excess Trade equal the sum of (a) the product of
(i) the number of shares involved in the Excess Trade and (ii) the difference between the NAV
on the day of the redemption and the NAV on the day of the purchase plus (b) dividends earned
by the Account during the Excess Trade (i.e., from the date of the purchase through the date of
redemption).
(2)

Net Investment Losses Incurred by the Fund on Excess Trades

Net Investment Losses Incurred by the Fund equal the dollar amount lost by the Fund during and
after Excess Trades on the portion of net cash flows from Excess Trades that are invested in
portfolio securities.

A-2
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT A
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL

More specifically, Net Investment Losses Incurred by the Fund for each Excess Trade are
estimated as follows:
(a)

The average effect of all trades by Accounts that engaged in Excess Trades on a
Fund’s portfolio investments (controlling for the average effect of trades by other
Accounts) over the Period 1 is estimated by the following ordinary least squares
regression:
ACPt = a +

b1FTCFt +
b2FTCFt-1 +
…
bkFTCFt-k-1 +

c1NFTCFt
+
c2NFTCFt-1 +
…
ckNFTCFt-k-1 + dACPt-k + ε

where ACP means Adjusted Cash Position (as defined below), FTCF means
Frequent Trader Cash Flow (as defined below), and NFTCF means Non-Frequent
Trader Cash Flow (as defined below). Each of these variables is determined on a
daily basis, with subscript “t” equal to the value of that variable on the day in
question, subscript “t-1” equal to the value of that variable on the prior trading
day, and so on.
The number of days included in the model – denoted by “k” in the formula above
– is determined statistically, by examining the results of an F test of the
hypothesis that the coefficient b on each successive day is equal to zero, and
retaining that number of days (up to 22 trading days, roughly one calendar month)
for which the F test rejects that hypothesis, using a confidence level of 95%. 2
In addition, an F test was conducted of the hypothesis that the NAV return 3 for
day t and t-1 were uncorrelated with the ACP on day t, and the model retains
those controls if the hypothesis is rejected, using a 95% confidence level, and
1

One of the Funds (MTR) changed its asset allocation policy on 1/22/02, and immediately reduced its cash holdings
(from an average of 15% in the prior part of the Period, to about 4% for the rest of the Period). We thus estimate
two sets of coefficients, one for each period, and use those two sets of coefficients for the remaining steps in the
estimation of losses for that fund. None of the other Funds experienced a similar shift in asset allocation policy in
the Period.
2
As sensitivity checks, alternative loss models were also developed to fix the number of trading days included in the
model at 22, 11, and 6 for all funds, with and without controls for prior- and current-day NAV returns. Overall, the
allocation of the losses among the funds was not particularly sensitive to these specifications. As additional
sensitivity checks, alternative models were developed in which the dependent variable was the change in ACP from
the prior day to the day in question; again, the allocation of the losses among the funds was not sensitive to this
alternative specification. Finally, alternative loss models were also developed that identified accounts that engaged
in trades the direction and/or magnitude of which correlated at a high level of statistical significance with after-hours
movements in benchmark indices for the Funds, with a range of controls and specifications. These models will be
used to identify Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries, as described in the Plan.
3
The NAV return for a day is (a) the NAV at the end of that day less the NAV at the end of the prior trading day,
divided by (b) the NAV at the end of the prior trading day.

A-3
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT A
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL

omits those controls if the hypothesis is not rejected. The specific models used
for each fund are as follows:
Fund
MEG

Number of Trading Days
22

NAV controls?
Yes

MIT

22

No

MIG

10

Yes

MFR

22

No

MTR

22

Yes

EIF

22

Yes

MFB

22

No

MFG

21

No

MGP

2

No

Adjusted Cash Position on a given day equals the dollar amount of cash and cash
equivalents held by a Fund, plus the product of (x) any per-share cash dividend
paid on that day and (y) the number of shares outstanding on that day.
Frequent Trader Cash Flow for a given day equals the difference (positive or
negative) between the dollar value of all purchases by Frequent Trading Accounts
(as defined below) on the prior trading day and the dollar value of all redemptions
by Frequent Trading Accounts on the prior trading day.
Frequent Trading Accounts are Accounts that engaged in more than six exchange
purchases or exchange redemptions of at least $100,000 of Class A Shares in a
calendar year, of which at least one was an exchange purchase and at least one
was an exchange redemption.
Non-Frequent Trader Cash Flow for each day equals (a) the prior day’s NAV
multiplied by the difference (positive or negative) between (i) the shares
outstanding of the Fund on the day and (ii) the shares outstanding of the Fund on
A-4
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT A
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL

the prior day, less (b) Frequent Trader Cash Flow for the day and (c) the product
of any per-share cash dividend paid on the prior day and the number of shares
outstanding on the prior day.
The coefficients on Frequent Trader Cash Flows from the above regression
represent the average percent of Frequent Trader Cash Flows not invested on day
t. To the extent any coefficient is estimated to be greater than one or less than
zero in the above regression, they are adjusted to equal one or zero, respectively. 4
If a coefficient is not statistically significant at the 95% level, that coefficient as
well as coefficients for the following days are set equal to zero.5 As so adjusted,
these coefficients (i.e., b1 through b22) are then used to estimate the effect on a
Fund’s investments of all Excess Trades in the Period, as follows:
(b)

The period during which the portfolio manager of a Fund responds to each Excess
Trade is divided into two subperiods: the Investment Period and the Divestment
Period. The Investment Period begins on the trading day after the exchange
purchase and ends on the day of the matched exchange redemption. During an
Investment Period it is assumed that the Fund portfolio manager invested a
portion of the cash inflows from that purchase (Frequent Trader Cash In-Flow).
For each day in an Investment Period, the Investment Balance, and the associated
return on that balance, is determined as follows:
•
•

•

At the end of the day of the purchase, zero is invested;
At the end of the first trading day after the purchase, the Investment
Balance equals the Marginal Investment for that day, defined for that day
as the product of the Frequent Trader Cash In-Flow and the difference
between 1 and b1 from the above regression; and,
At the end of each subsequent trading day in the Investment Period, the
Investment Balance equals (a) the Investment Balance at the end of the
previous day, plus (b) the NAV return for that day on the Investment
Balance at the end of the previous day, plus (c) the Marginal Investment
for the current day, defined for each such day as the product of the
Frequent Trader Cash In-Flow and the difference between coefficients bt–1
and bt.

The Divestment Period begins on the trading day after the exchange redemption
and ends on the earlier of (a) the day on which the Investment Balance accrued
over the Investment Period has been completely divested, or (b) n trading days
after the exchange redemption date, where n is defined by the duration of the
4
5

Estimated losses are slightly lower if this adjustment is not made.
Estimated losses are slightly lower if this adjustment is not made.

A-5
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT A
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL

Excess Trade (i.e., the number of trading days from the purchase date through the
redemption date). During a Divestment Period, it is assumed that the Fund
portfolio manager divested all or a portion of the Investment Balance accrued
during the Investment Period. For each day in the Divestment Period, the
Investment Balance, and the associated return on that balance, is determined as
follows:
•

•

•

(c)

At the end of the day of the exchange redemption, the Investment Balance
equals the sum of (a) the Investment Balance at the end of the previous
day, plus (b) the NAV return on the Investment Balance at the end of the
previous day, plus (c) any additional amount invested on that day; and
zero is assumed to have been divested;
At the end of the first trading day after the exchange redemption, the
Investment Balance equals (a) the Investment Balance at the end of the
previous day, plus (b) the NAV return on the Investment Balance at the
end of the previous day, less (c) the Marginal Divestment for that day,
defined as the product of (x) the cash outflows associated with the
exchange redemption (the Frequent Trader Cash Out-Flow) and (y) the
difference between 1 and b1 from the above regression;
At the end of each subsequent trading day in the Divestment Period the
Investment Balance equals (a) the Investment Balance at the end of the
previous day, plus (b) the NAV return on the Investment Balance at the
end of the previous day, less (c) the Marginal Divestment for the current
day, defined for each such day as the product of the Frequent Trader Cash
Out-Flow and the difference between the coefficients bt – 1 and bt.

For each Excess Trade, the return earned by the Fund is equal to the NAV return
earned on the Investment Balance aggregated over all days in the Investment and
Divestment Periods. The Loss Incurred by the Fund is the negative of the return
earned by the Fund for each Excess Trade, so positive returns reduce estimated
losses, and negative returns increase estimated losses.

III.

Estimates of Other Losses

For the Money Market Funds, Other Losses are Transfer Agent Costs. For all Funds other than
the Money Market Funds, Other Losses are the sum of Transfer Agent Costs and Transaction
Costs.
(1)

Transfer Agent Costs are the product of the Marginal Transfer Agent Cost per Trade and
the number of Excess Trades. Marginal Transfer Agent Cost per Trade is defined as

A-6
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT A
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL

follows: $0.50 for Trades via the Internet; $0.30 for Trades via telephone with MFS;
$0.125 for all other Trades.
(2)

For the Equity Funds, Transaction Costs are the sum of Commissions/Fees and Price
Impact. For the Bond Funds, Transaction Costs equal Commissions/Fees.
(a)

For each day, Commissions/Fees represent the commissions and fees that were
paid by the Fund but for the effect of excess trades, and are calculated as follows.
First, for that day, Net Marginal Investments (NMI) equal Marginal Investments
less Marginal Divestments (each as defined above).
Second:
(1) For days on which NMI is positive, the dollar volume of actual
purchases of securities by the portfolio manager (PM) are reduced by the
amount of NMI, and if NMI is greater than actual purchases, then reduce
actual purchases to zero and increase actual sales by the difference
between NMI and the amount of actual purchases. That is, “but-for buys”
are defined as the larger of (a) actual buys less NMI or (b) zero, and “butfor sells” are defined as actual sells plus the larger of (a) zero or (b) NMI
less actual buys, i.e.,
But-for buys = max(actual purchases - NMI, 0)
But-for sells = actual sales + max(NMI – actual purchases, 0)
(2) For days on which NMI is negative, the dollar volume of actual sales
of securities by the PM are reduced by the absolute value of NMI, and if
the absolute value of NMI is greater than the amount of actual sales, then
the amount of actual sales are reduced to zero and the amount of actual
purchases are increased by the difference between the absolute value of
NMI and the amount of actual sales. That is, “but-for sells” are defined as
the larger of (a) actual sales less the absolute value of NMI or (b) zero, and
“but-for buys” are defined as the sum of actual purchases and the greater
of (a) zero or (b) the difference between the absolute value of NMI and
actual sales, i.e.,
But for sells = max(actual sales – abs(NMI), 0)
But for buys = actual purchases + max(abs(NMI) – actual sales, 0)
The amounts of buy-for buys and but-for sales are multiplied by the average of
commissions and fees paid on actual purchases and sales by the PM. The sum of
A-7

US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT A
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED LOSS MODEL

the daily differences between actual commissions and fees and the commissions
and fees on but-for buys and sells then represents the amount of
Commissions/Fees estimated to have been caused by excess trades.
(b)

For each day, Price Impact is calculated as follows. The amounts of but-for buys
and but-for sales (defined above) are multiplied by the quarterly average “price
impact” estimated for MFS by the Plexus Group for funds managed by MFS with
the same investment style as each of the Funds (“but-for price impact”). The
same price impact estimates are then multiplied by actual purchases and actual
sales (“actual price impact”). The sum of the daily differences between the actual
price impact and the but-for price impact then represents the amount of Price
Impact estimated to have been caused by excess trades.

A-8
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT B
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION NOTICE
IN THE MATTER OF MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO.,
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING FILE NO. 3-11393
Re:

Award of payment from the MFS Qualified Settlement Fund

If you are receiving this notice with respect to an account that is an Individual Retirement
Account (IRA) or is part of a retirement plan, a separate notice is enclosed that addresses
issues specific to those types of accounts. You should also read that notice because it has
important information for you. If your account is an IRA or retirement plan and a
separate notice is not enclosed, please call
or see [website] to get a copy of the
notice.
Dear MFS Fund Shareholder:
On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order (the
“Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. In connection with
the settlement, a fund (the “Qualified Settlement Fund”) was established with monies paid by
MFS and two of its officers from which investors, whom an independent consultant (the “IDC”)
determined were harmed by late trading and other market timing trading activity during the
relevant period, are to be compensated. Pursuant to a distribution plan (the “Plan”) developed by
the IDC and approved by the SEC after a public comment period, the IDC has calculated losses
incurred by these funds and developed a plan for distributing the settlement money to eligible
investors in the funds identified below (the “Eligible Funds”) during the period from September
1, 1999 (or in the case of certain Eligible Funds, a later date) through October 31, 2003 (the
“Period”). You are receiving this notice and the enclosed check because the IDC has
determined that you are eligible to receive a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund.
This check will be cancelled (and you will no longer be entitled to a payment from the
Qualified Settlement Fund) if the check is not cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days
after issuance.
The Order applies to the following Eligible Funds:
Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Bond Fund
MFS Cash Reserve Fund
MFS Emerging Growth Fund
MFS Value Fund

MFS Government Mortgage Fund
MFS Government Securities Fund
MFS Money Market Fund
MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund

While the Order applies to each of the Funds identified above, the IDC has determined that
only the Funds in bold incurred losses and consequently only certain shareholders of those
Eligible Funds are receiving a distribution under the Plan.

B-1
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT B
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION NOTICE
This Notice explains:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.

Your payment amount
How payment amounts were calculated
Your right to dispute your payment amount and the appeal deadline
Whether you must report your payment on your tax return
Where you can get more information

Special Notice for Financial Intermediaries:
If you are a financial intermediary and hold shares in the Eligible Funds (as defined above) on
behalf of others including Retirement Accounts, you can obtain additional information, including
guidance on how to allocate the distribution from the Qualified Settlement Fund among the
accounts on whose behalf you hold shares, by visiting [website].
If you are a financial intermediary and receive a distribution on behalf of a Retirement Account
for which you no longer act as a financial intermediary, you are required under the Plan and
Department of Labor Field Assistance Bulletin (“FAB”) 2006-1 to transfer the distribution from
the Qualified Settlement Fund with respect to such Retirement Plan to the new record keeper or
an appropriate fiduciary or, in the case of a terminated plan, to make reasonable efforts to deliver
assets to the plan sponsor or fiduciary. Under the FAB, while you are in possession of the
distribution from the Qualified Settlement Fund, you are deemed to be a plan fiduciary even
though your relationship with the plan has been previously terminated. As a fiduciary to the
plan, you have an obligation to invest the distribution proceeds in a prudent manner until
transferred to the new financial intermediary, plan sponsor or other fiduciary. In your
determination of what would be an appropriate and prudent investment for the distributed assets,
the following investment alternatives are being provided for your consideration when investing
the distribution received from the Qualified Settlement Fund, provided the investment selected
should not be a fund, account or other vehicle investment in which would constitute a nonexempt
prohibited transaction under Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code: (a) direct
obligations of the United States Government of a type and term necessary to meet cash
requirements for such transfer or delivery, (b) an instrument that qualifies for the safe harbor for
automatic rollovers to individual retirement plans in 29 C.F.R. Section 2550.404a-2 or (c)
another instrument that you determine to be consistent with your fiduciary obligations to the
Retirement Accounts. As a fiduciary to a plan, the responsibility for selecting a prudent
investment is yours. If you receive a distribution with respect to a Retirement Account for which
you no longer act as a financial intermediary, you have an obligation under the FAB to transfer
the distribution to the new recordkeeper, fiduciary or plan sponsor. If you are not able to make
such transfer, you should return such distribution to the Qualified Settlement Fund on the earlier
of (i) 180 days after receipt of the distribution from the Qualified Settlement Fund and (ii) the
date on which you determine that you have satisfied your obligations under the FAB. You
should return the distribution to the following account [insert wire transfer instructions]

B-2
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT B
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION NOTICE

1.

Your payment amount

The payment that the IDC has determined that you are entitled to receive and the account with
respect to which the payment relates are set forth on the enclosed check. If you held of record
another account that invested in an Eligible Fund during the Period, you may receive a separate
check with respect to such account. If you held shares during the Period in an Eligible Fund
through a broker or other financial intermediary, payments from the Qualified Settlement Fund,
if any, would be made through the broker or financial intermediary rather than the Qualified
Settlement Funds Administrator. Not all accounts are entitled to a payment under the Plan. If
you hold another account and do not receive an additional check, the IDC may not have awarded
any payment to that account. Please see “Where you get additional information” below for
information on how to contact the Qualified Settlement Funds Administrator if you have
questions.
2.

How payment amounts were calculated

Payment amounts for all eligible investors from the Qualified Settlement Fund were calculated in
the following way:
First, for each of the 11 Eligible Funds, the IDC estimated losses, if any, for each day of the
Period. The IDC determined that only six of the eleven Eligible Funds incurred losses. As to
each day, the IDC may have determined that the shareholders of an Eligible Fund realized gains
from the activity addressed by the Order. In such circumstances, these gains offset all or part of
the losses allocated to your account in determining the amount of your payment.
Second, each account of record in an Eligible Fund that incurred losses was allocated a dollar
amount for each day in the Period equal to the account value in such account during that day
times the estimated losses for that Eligible Fund for that day divided by the total value of all
accounts on that day. For example, if an account was valued at $10 out of a total asset value of
$1,000 of the MFS Value Fund on July 1, 2000, the account would be entitled to 1% ($10
divided by the $1,000 total asset value) of the MFS Value Fund’s estimated losses for July 1,
2000. If the estimated losses for that date were $1,000, the account’s share would be $10 (1% of
$1,000). An account value was determined by multiplying the number of shares owned by the
Net Asset Value on each day in the Period.
Third, each record account’s losses for each day during the Period (net of any offsetting gains) as
to an Eligible Fund were added together to reach the total payment amount to the account of
record with respect to that Eligible Fund. If you held shares of Eligible Funds through more than
one account, the losses attributable to the different accounts were not aggregated.

B-3
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT B
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION NOTICE
Finally, the entire settlement fund is greater than the amount necessary to compensate
shareholders for losses as determined by the IDC. Therefore, you also are receiving a share of
the excess portion of the Qualified Settlement Fund.
Accounts which incurred losses of less than $10.00 are not receiving a distribution under the
Plan.
3.

Your right to dispute your payment amount and the appeal deadline

If you disagree with the amount of your payment, you can appeal to the IDC by filling out a
Dispute Form. To obtain a Dispute Form you should contact the Qualified Settlement Fund
Administrator. See “Where you can obtain more information” below. The Dispute Form must
be postmarked by [day, month, year] and mailed to the following address or your dispute
will be forever barred:
MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator
P.O. Box XXY
Faribault, MN
The decision of the IDC on any appeal is final.
4.

Whether you must report your payment on your tax return

[NOTE: This disclosure assumes that the IRS issues a ruling to the effect that the entire amount of
the distribution (including the portion attributable to return of advisory fees) is a return of basis.
This disclosure will need to be revised if the IRS issues a different ruling, or issues no ruling.]
The attached information letter from the IRS is a summary of the material U.S. federal income tax
consequences to you of receiving a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund. This discussion is
based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), laws, regulations, rulings and
decisions in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect,
and to varying interpretations, which could result in U.S. federal income tax consequences different from
those described below. In addition, this discussion is based on a ruling obtained by the Qualified
Settlement Fund from the Internal Revenue Service regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences
of the payment.
Except as specifically set forth in the attached information letter from the IRS, this discussion
addresses only the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the receipt of a payment to you if you are a
citizen or resident of the U.S. for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This discussion does not address all
of the U.S. federal income tax consequences that may be relevant to you in light of your individual
circumstances. This discussion does not address the tax consequences to you if you are subject to special
rules, including, without limitation, if you are a non-U.S. investor, if you hold your shares in a qualified
retirement plan and if you are a qualified retirement plan. This discussion does not address the tax
consequences to you under any state, local or non-U.S. tax laws or the alternative minimum tax
provisions of the Code.

B-4
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT B
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION NOTICE
YOU ARE URGED TO CONSULT YOUR TAX ADVISER WITH RESPECT TO THE
SPECIFIC TAX CONSEQUENCES TO YOU OF RECEIVING THE PAYMENT, INCLUDING
THE EFFECTS OF U.S. FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL AND NON-U.S. TAX RULES AND THE
EFFECT OF POSSIBLE CHANGES IN LAWS THAT MAY AFFECT THE TAX
CONSEQUENCES DESCRIBED IN THIS NOTICE.

5.

Where you can get more information

If you have any questions regarding this notice, you can call the Qualified Settlement Fund
Administrator toll free at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx (hearing impaired call 1-yyy-yyy-yyyy). To obtain
Dispute Forms and special disclosure for holders of IRAs and administration of retirement plans,
you can visit [ website] or contact the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator.

B-5
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
IN THE MATTER OF MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO.,
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING FILE NO. 3-11393
General Information
THIS FORM SHOULD BE USED IF YOU BELIEVE THAT YOU ARE ENTITLED TO
A PAYMENT FROM THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND BUT THE QUALIFIED
SETTLEMENT FUND ADMINISTRATOR HAS NOT SENT YOU A CHECK. DO NOT
COMPLETE THIS FORM IF YOU HAVE RECEIVED A CHECK FROM THE
ADMINISTRATOR OF THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT. IF YOU RECEIVED A
CHECK BUT DISAGREE WITH THE AMOUNT, YOU SHOULD COMPLETE THE
“DISPUTE FORM” WHICH IS AVAILABLE BY CALLING THE ADMINISTRATOR
OF THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND AT 1-xxx-xxx-xxx (hearing impaired call 1yyy-yyy-yyyy) OR AT [website].
IF YOU HELD SHARES IN ONE OF THE ELIGIBLE MFS FUNDS THROUGH A
BROKER OR OTHER FINANCIAL INTERMEDIARY AND BELIEVE YOU ARE
ENTITLED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE DISTRIBUTION FROM THE QUALIFIED
SETTLEMENT FUND, YOU SHOULD CONTACT YOUR BROKER RATHER THAN
COMPLETING THIS FORM.
ONLY SHAREHOLDERS OF CERTAIN MFS FUNDS DURING THE PERIOD
SPECIFIED BELOW ARE PARTICIPATING IN THE DISTRIBUTION. IF YOU WERE
NOT A SHAREHOLDER OF ONE OF THE MFS FUNDS LISTED BELOW DURING
THE PERIOD SPECIFIED BELOW, DO NOT COMPLETE THIS FORM. YOU ARE
NOT ENTITLED TO A DISTRIBUTION FROM THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT
FUND.
YOU ARE ALSO NOT ENTITLED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE DISTRIBUTION IF
THE INDEPENDENT DISTRIBUTION CONSULTANT DETERMINED THAT YOUR
ACCOUNT HAD LOSSES OF LESS THAN $10.00
1. On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order (the
“Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. In connection with
the settlement, a fund (the “Qualified Settlement Fund”) was established with monies paid by
MFS and two of its officers from which investors, whom an independent consultant (the “IDC”)
determined were harmed by late trading and other market timing trading activity during the
relevant period, are to be compensated. The IDC has calculated losses incurred by these funds
and developed a plan for distributing the settlement money to eligible investors in the funds
identified below (the “Eligible Funds”) during the period from September 1, 1999 (or in the case
of certain Eligible Funds, a later date) through October 31, 2003 (the “Period”). The SEC case is

C-1
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
called In the Matter of Massachusetts Financial Services Co., John W. Ballen and Kevin R.
Parke, Admin. Proceeding File No. 3-11393.
The Order applies to eleven funds but the IDC has determined that only the following six mutual
funds incurred losses that are being compensated under the Plan:
Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Value Fund

MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund
MFS Government Mortgage Fund

2. If the IDC has determined that you are entitled to a distribution from the Qualified Settlement
Fund you should receive a check from the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator by
________, 2006. If you did not receive a check by that date, but believe you are entitled to a
distribution, you may complete this form. Before completing this form, it is recommended that
you contact the Administrator of the Qualified Settlement Fund at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx (hearing
impaired call 1-yyy-yyy-yyyy) to confirm that no check has been mailed to you or to determine
why the IDC has determined that you are not entitled to a payment from the Qualified Settlement
Fund (e.g., you are not entitled to a distribution if the Eligible Fund you held was not harmed,
you were not shown as a shareholder of record during the Period, the amount of loss calculated
with respect to your account is less than $10).
If you owned shares through a broker, benefit plan administrator or other financial
intermediary, do not complete this form. You should contact your broker, plan
administrator or intermediary to determine if they have received a payment on your
behalf. Do not complete this Proof of Possible Entitlement Form prior to [month, day,
year]. If the IDC has identified you as an eligible investor, you should receive a Qualified
Settlement Fund distribution payment in the mail by that date. Complete this Proof of
Possible Entitlement Form only if you do not receive a Qualified Settlement Fund
Distribution payment by [month, day, 2006], and you believe you are eligible for
compensation.
Bar Date: Proof of Possible Entitlement Forms must be sent to the Qualified Settlement
Fund Administrator and postmarked on or before
. Proof of Possible
Entitlement Forms postmarked after that date will not be considered and will be forever
barred.
3. If you receive a notice from the IDC that you are a Disqualified Beneficiary, you will not be
receiving a payment under the Plan. If you receive a notice from the IDC that you are an
Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary or a Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary, you will not receive
a payment under the Plan except as specified in the notice from the IDC.

C-2
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
Instructions for Completion of Proof of Possible Entitlement Form
General
1. The Proof of Possible Entitlement Form has five Sections, I through V. You must complete
Sections I through IV. Section V tells you where to mail your completed Form.
2. Please print neatly in dark ink or type all information that you enter on the Proof of Possible
Entitlement Form.
3. If you need additional space to complete any information, you may attach separate sheets.
Include the claimant’s name, account number and social security or taxpayer identification
number at the top of each attached sheet.
4. Failure to accurately provide information requested in the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form
could result in delay of processing or a rejection of your claim.
5. Your completed Proof of Possible Entitlement Form and supporting documentation must be
mailed to the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator, postmarked by [month, day, year].
Proofs of Possible Entitlement Forms postmarked after that date will not be considered
and will be forever barred.
6. You will be notified in writing if your dispute is accepted or rejected. If your dispute is
accepted, you will be notified of the amount and the anticipated payment date.
Section I: Claimant Information
1. The claimant must be the actual record owner of shares in an Eligible Fund. If the shares you
owned were registered in the name of a third party (such as shares you held in an account with a
brokerage firm), you are not the record owner. If you held shares in an Eligible Fund through a
broker or other financial intermediary, you will be contacted regarding any distribution that you
may be entitled to receive by that financial intermediary.
2. If there are joint owners of the shares in an Eligible Fund (for example, if you and your
spouse owned shares jointly, all must be listed on the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form. Enter
any joint owner on line 3 of this section (Joint Claimant name).
3. If you jointly owned shares in an Eligible Fund, and also owned shares in an Eligible Fund
individually, you must file a separate Proof of Possible Entitlement Form for the shares held
individually. You can (and should), however, include all of the Eligible Fund shares you held
jointly with the same person(s) in a single Proof of Possible Entitlement Form, and all of the
Eligible Fund shares you held individually in another Proof of Possible Entitlement Form.

C-3
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
4. If the claimant is a corporation or other entity, line 7 must be completed. Fill in the name and
title of the person who is authorized by the entity to submit the Proof of Possible Entitlement
Form.
5. If you are the legal representative of the claimant (such as a guardian, the parent of a minor
child, or the administrator of the estate of a deceased claimant), you must complete lines 8
through 11 of this Section. If requested at a later date, you must submit proof of your
representative status. If you are not the claimant’s legal representative, you should skip lines 8
through 11.
6. Contact information (lines 12 through 14) must be completed. Claimants that are corporations
or other entities should enter the information of the agent identified in line 7. If the claimant has
a legal representative, the representative’s information should be entered. An individual claimant
should enter his or her own phone numbers and email address.
Section II: Holdings and Transactions in Eligible Funds
1. You must complete Table A if you owned shares in any of the 6 Eligible Funds on August 31,
1999. Table A lists the name of each Eligible Fund in the left-hand column. Write or type in the
number of shares you owned on August 31, 1999 in the right-hand column next to the
appropriate fund. If you are not challenging your entitlement to a distribution for each account
that you may have held in an Eligible Fund during the Period, you need only complete this Form
as to those accounts for which you are claiming should have been included in the distribution.
2. If you completed Table A and held the same number of shares in the same funds listed until
October 31, 2003, you should leave Table B blank. Table B must be completed if you purchased
or sold shares in any of the Eligible Funds after August 31, 1999, and until October 31, 2003.
Table B is intended to document share ownership quantity and time period for each fund, so you
should enter separately each purchase or sale of shares in an Eligible Fund account for which you
are making a challenge.
For example, if you purchased 100 shares of the MFS Value Fund on January 1, 2000, you
should enter the fund name (MFS Value Fund), the purchase date (1/1/2000), and the number of
shares (100) in the appropriate columns in one row of Table B. If you still held those 100 shares
on October 31, 2003, you should not enter any other information about the Value Fund. Your
single entry will mean you owned 100 shares of the Value Fund from 1/1/2000 to 10/31/2000.
If, however, you purchased an additional 100 shares of the Value Fund on January 1, 2002, you
should enter this purchase in another row in Table B. Your entries together would now show that
you owned 200 shares from 1/1/2002 to 10/31/2003. Make similar entries if you sold shares of
any other Eligible Fund in which you held an account that you dispute should have been included
in the distribution.

C-4
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
3. If you need additional space to list all your transactions, you can make copies of the tables
and attach them to the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form. Please write your name and social
security or taxpayer identification number on each extra page attached.
4. If you are filing as joint claimants, you should list in Tables A and B only the holdings and
transactions that you owned or made jointly. If you also owned shares in any Eligible Funds
individually, you must file a separate Proof of Possible Entitlement Form.
INSTEAD OF COMPLETING THE TABLES IN SECTION II, YOU MAY ATTACH ACCOUNT
STATEMENTS FOR EACH QUARTER DURING THE PERIOD.

Section III: Documentation Requirements
1. You must submit documents with your Proof of Possible Entitlement Form that verify the
number of shares you held in accounts in Eligible Funds as of August 31, 1999 that you claim
should have been included in the distribution (those you listed per section II above). You must
also submit documents that verify the date of each purchase and sale of shares in Eligible Funds,
and the number of shares purchased or sold, for the time period from August 31, 1999 to October
31, 2003. This Section describes the types of documents you can include. Place a checkmark by
each document type you submit with your claim.
2. If the documents are not in your possession, you should obtain copies from your financial
professional.
3. Do not send originals of your supporting documentation. Keep the originals for your records
and submit copies with the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form. We will not return any
documents that you send with this Form.
Section IV: Certification and Signature
1. You must sign and date your Proof of Possible Entitlement Form in this section. By signing,
you are: (a) consenting to the use of the information you provide to verify your claim; (b)
authorizing the release of the trading records you provided to the IDC or Qualified Settlement
Fund Administrator, and; (c) certifying under penalty of perjury to the truthfulness of the
information you have provided and the genuineness of the documentation submitted.
2. Sign the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form in the appropriate place, depending on whether
you are submitting this Form in your individual capacity, or on behalf of a corporation or other
entity. If there are joint claimants, all claimants must sign.
Section V: Filing the Proof of Possible Entitlement Form
This section provides the address and mailing instructions for your completed Proof of Possible
Entitlement Form and supporting documentation. Please make sure you have completed all
sections, signed your Form, and copied all documents before mailing.
C-5
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
Section I. CLAIMANT INFORMATION
1.
Claimant name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
2.
Claimant social security number or taxpayer identification number
3.
Joint Claimant name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
4.
Joint Claimant social security number or taxpayer identification number
5.
Claimant Street address

City

State

Zip code

6.
Foreign province (if applicable)

Foreign Country (if applicable)

7.
Agent name and title (If Claimant is a corporation or other entity, enter the name and title of the
person authorized to submit this Proof of Possible Entitlement.)
Representative information: Complete numbers 8 to 11 below only if you are the legal representative of
the claimant (for example, a guardian, the parent of a minor child, or the administrator of the estate of a
deceased claimant). Otherwise, leave these lines blank.
8.
Representative name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
9.
Representative title
10.
Representative street address

City

State

Zip code

11.
Foreign province (if applicable)

Foreign Country (if applicable)

Contact Information: The person completing this Proof of Possible Entitlement should provide the
information requested in numbers 12 to 14 below: (a) the agent authorized to submit the Proof of Possible
Entitlement if the claimant is a corporation or other entity; (b) the representative, if the claimant has a
legal representative, or; (c) the claimant, if he or she is an individual.
12.
Daytime phone number

Evening phone number

(Include area code, or country code if applicable in all telephone number listings)
13.
Cellular phone or pager number

Facsimile number

14.
Email address (if available)

C-6
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
Section II. HOLDINGS AND TRANSACTIONS IN ELIGIBLE FUNDS
INSTEAD OF COMPLETING THE TABLES IN THIS SECTION II, YOU MAY
ATTACH ACCOUNT STATEMENTS FOR EACH QUARTER DURING THE PERIOD.
TABLE A:

SHARES OWNED AS OF 8/31/1999

Beginning Holdings: In the table below, list the number of shares you held in each Eligible
Fund on August 31, 1999. If you didn’t own any shares in a fund on that date or if you are not
challenging your entitlement to a distribution for an Eligible Funds account, enter “0”.
Name of Eligible Fund

Account Number

Broker Name

Number of
Shares Held on
8/31/1999

Massachusetts Investors Growth
Stock Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund
MFS Value Fund
MFS Government Mortgage Fund
TABLE B: SHARES PURCHASED OR SOLD FROM 9/1/1999 TO 10/31/2003
Subsequent Transactions: In the table below, separately list the date and number of each of
your purchases and sales of shares in the Eligible Funds listed in Table A between September 1,
1999 and October 31, 2003. If you need additional space, make copies of this blank page, and
write your name and social security number/taxpayer identification number on each extra page.
You need not enter sales or purchases for Eligible Fund accounts that you are not claiming
should have been included in the distribution.
Name of Fund

Account Number

Date of
Purchase
of Shares

C-7
US1DOCS 5606296v5

Number
of Shares
Purchased

Date of Sale of
Shares

Number of
Shares Sold

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS

Section III. DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS
If you qualify for a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund, your payment amount will be
calculated based on the number of shares you held and the time period that you held those shares
in each of the Eligible Funds during the Period. Therefore you must provide documentation that
verifies the holdings and transactions you have listed in Section II of this Proof of Possible
Entitlement and is sufficient to show:
•

For each account, the number of shares in an Eligible Fund you owned on August 31,
1999

•

For each account, each date between 9/1/1999 and 10/31/2003 that you purchased
shares in an Eligible Fund, and the number of shares purchased

•

For each account, each date between 9/1/1999 and 10/31/2003 that you sold shares in
an Eligible Fund, and the number of shares sold

This documentation could include (but isn’t limited to): (1) account statements; (2) trade
confirmation slips; or (3) signed letters from your investment professional, on their firms’
letterheads, verifying your holdings and the dates and number of shares involved in your
purchases or sales of shares in the Eligible Funds.
Check below the type(s) of documentation you are submitting with this Proof of Possible
Entitlement:
____ Account statements
____ Letter(s) from your investment professional
____ Trade confirmation slips
____ Other documentation showing holdings, purchases or sales
Do not send originals of your supporting documentation.
Provide copies only.

C-8
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
Section IV. CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE
Each of the undersigned certifies and agrees:
1. I submit to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for all purposes
in connection with this claim.
2. I consent to the use of any and all information provided in and with this Proof of Possible
Entitlement by the IDC or the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator (including my social
security number/tax payer identification number) for the purposes of verifying my claim.
3. I authorize the IDC or the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator to obtain and review any
and all trading records relevant to my transactions in any of the Eligible Funds from any
brokerage firm or other entity that has possession of such records, and further consent to the
release of such records by such brokerage firm or other entity to the IDC or the Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator.
4. I have personally completed this Proof of Possible Entitlement and declare under penalty of
perjury that the information submitted in this Proof of Possible Entitlement is true, complete, and
accurate, and that the documents submitted herewith are true and genuine.
Individuals

Corporations or Other Entities

Claimant signature

Date

Type or print name of Claimant
Signature of Joint Claimant
Type or print name of Joint Claimant

Name of entity
Authorized signature

Date

Date

Type or print name
Title

Section V. FILING THE PROOF OF PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM
Your completed and signed Proof of Possible Entitlement Form, together with copies of all
supporting documentation, must be mailed and postmarked by [month, day, year] to:
MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator
P.O. Box xxx
Faribault, MN xxxxx-xxxx

C-9
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT C
PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND
INSTRUCTIONS
Proof of Possible Entitlement Forms that are not postmarked by [month, day, year] will not
be considered and will be forever barred.

C - 10
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS

IN THE MATTER OF MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO.,
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING FILE NO. 3-11393
General Information
IF YOU RECEIVED A CHECK FROM THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE QUALIFIED
SETTLEMENT FUND AND AGREE WITH THE AMOUNT DISTRIBUTED, YOU DO
NOT NEED TO TAKE ANY ACTION. IF YOU RECEIVED THE CHECK BUT
DISAGREE WITH THE AMOUNT, YOU MAY APPEAL TO THE IDC BY
COMPLETING THIS FORM.
IF YOU HAVE NOT RECEIVED A CHECK FROM THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE
QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND AND HAVE RECORDS INDICATING THAT YOU
OWNED SHARES OF THE FUNDS AS RECORD OWNER AND BELIEVE YOU ARE
ENTITLED TO A DISTRIBUTION FROM THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND,
DO NOT COMPLETE THIS FORM. YOU SHOULD OBTAIN A PROOF OF POSSIBLE
ENTITLEMENT FORM FROM THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND
ADMINISTRATOR AND FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS ON SUCH FORM. YOU
CAN OBTAIN A PROOF OF POSSIBLE ENTITLEMENT FORM BY CALLING 1-xxxxxx-xxx (hearing impaired call 1-yyy-yyy-yyyy) OR AT [website].
IF YOU HELD SHARES IN ONE OF THE ELIGIBLE MFS FUNDS DURING THE
PERIOD INDICATED BELOW THROUGH A BROKER AND BELIEVE YOU ARE
ENTITLED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND
DISTRIBUTION, YOU SHOULD CONTACT YOUR BROKER RATHER THAN
COMPLETING THIS FORM.
ONLY SHAREHOLDERS OF CERTAIN MFS FUNDS DURING THE PERIOD ARE
PARTICIPATING IN THE DISTRIBUTION. IF YOU WERE NOT A SHAREHOLDER
DURING THE PERIOD OF ONE OF THE MFS FUNDS LISTED BELOW, DO NOT
COMPLETE THIS FORM. YOU ARE NOT ENTITLED TO PARTICIPATE IN THE
DISTRIBUTION IF THE INDEPENDENT CONSULTANT DETERMINED THAT
YOUR ACCOUNT HAD LOSSES OF LESS THAN $10.00
1. On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order (the
“Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. In connection with
the settlement, a fund (the “Qualified Settlement Fund”) was established with monies paid by
MFS and two of its officers from which investors, whom an independent consultant (the “IDC”)
determined were harmed by late trading and other market timing trading activity during the
relevant period, are to be compensated. The IDC has calculated losses incurred by these funds
and developed a plan for distributing the settlement money to eligible investors in the funds
identified below (the “Eligible Funds”) during the period from September 1, 1999 (or in the case
of certain Eligible Funds, a later date) through October 31, 2003 (the “Period”). The SEC case is
D-1
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
called In the Matter of Massachusetts Financial Services Co., John W. Ballen and Kevin R.
Parke, Admin. Proceeding File No. 3-11393.
The Order applies to eleven funds but the IDC has determined that only the following six mutual
funds incurred losses that are compensated under the Plan:
Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Value Fund

MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund
MFS Government Mortgage Fund

2. If the IDC has determined that you are entitled to a distribution from the Qualified Settlement
Fund you should have received a check from the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator by
_________, 2006. If you received a check but (i) disagree with the amount calculated as your
distribution and (ii) have documentation to support your determination, you may complete this
Form. For example, if the Notice that accompanied the check listed one Eligible Fund that you
held but you held shares in another Eligible Fund, or if you believe the amount of the check you
received was incorrect (even if the Eligible Fund listed was correct) you may use this Form.
Bar Date: Dispute Forms must be sent to the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator
and postmarked by
. Dispute Forms postmarked after that date will not be
considered and will be forever barred.
3. If you receive notification from the IDC that you are a Disqualified Beneficiary, you will not
be receiving a payment under the Plan. If you receive notice from the IDC that you are an
Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary or a Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary, you will not receive
a payment under the Plan except as specified in the notice from the IDC.
Instructions for Completion of Dispute Form
General
1. The Dispute Form has six Sections, I through VI. You must complete Sections I through V.
Section VI tells you where to mail your completed Form.
2. Please print neatly in dark ink or type all information that you enter on the Dispute Form.
3. If you need additional space to complete any information, you may attach separate sheets.
Include the claimant’s name, account number and social security or taxpayer identification
number at the top of each attached sheet.
4. Failure to accurately provide information requested in the Dispute Form could result in delay
of processing or a rejection of your claim.
5. Your completed Dispute Form and supporting documentation must be mailed to the Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator, postmarked by [month, day, year]. Dispute Forms
postmarked after that date will not be considered and will be forever barred.

D-2
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
6. You will be notified in writing if your claim is accepted or rejected. If your claim is accepted,
you will be notified of the amount and the estimated date that you will receive payment.
Section I: Claimant Information
1. The claimant must be the actual record owner of shares in an Eligible Fund. If the shares you
owned were registered in the name of a third party (such as shares you held in an account with a
brokerage firm), you are not the record owner. If you held shares in an Eligible Fund through a
broker or other financial intermediary, you will be contacted regarding any distribution that you
may be entitled to receive by that financial intermediary.
2. If there are joint owners of the shares in an Eligible Fund (for example, if you and your
spouse owned shares jointly, all must be listed on the Dispute Form. Enter any joint owner on
line 3 of this section (Joint Claimant name).
3. If you jointly owned shares in an Eligible Fund, and also owned shares in an Eligible Fund
individually, you must file a separate Dispute Form for the shares held individually. You can
(and should), however, include all of the Eligible Fund shares you held jointly with the same
person(s) in a single Dispute Form, and all of the Eligible Fund shares you held individually in
another Dispute Form.
4. If the claimant is a corporation or other entity, line 7 must be completed. Fill in the name and
title of the person who is authorized by the entity to submit the Dispute Form.
5. If you are the legal representative of the claimant (such as a guardian, the parent of a minor
child, or the administrator of the estate of a deceased claimant), you must complete lines 8
through 11 of this Section. If requested at a later date, you must submit Dispute of your
representative status. If you are not the claimant’s legal representative, you should skip lines 8
through 11.
6. Contact information (lines 12 through 14) must be completed. Claimants that are corporations
or other entities should enter the information of the agent identified in line 7. If the claimant has
a legal representative, the representative’s information should be entered. An individual claimant
should enter his or her own phone numbers and email address.
Section II: Holdings and Transactions in Eligible MFS Funds
1. You must complete Table A if you owned shares in any of the 6 Eligible Funds on August 31,
1999. Table A lists the name of each Eligible Fund in the left-hand column. Write or type in the
number of shares you owned on August 31, 1999 in the right-hand column next to the
appropriate fund. You need only complete this form as to those Eligible Fund accounts that you
are claiming you were incorrectly compensated by the check you received.
2. If you completed Table A and held the same number of shares in the same funds listed until
October 31, 2003, you should leave Table B blank. Table B must be completed if you purchased
or sold shares in any of the Eligible Funds after August 31, 1999, and until October 31, 2003.
D-3
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
Table B is intended to document share ownership quantity and time period for each fund, so you
should enter separately each purchase or sale of shares in an Eligible Fund account for which you
are disputing the amount of the distribution.
For example, if you purchased 100 shares of the MFS Value Fund on January 1, 2000, you
should enter the fund name (MFS Value Fund), the purchase date (1/1/2000), and the number of
shares (100) in the appropriate columns in one row of Table B. If you still held those 100 shares
on October 31, 2003, you should not enter any other information about the Value Fund. Your
single entry will mean you owned 100 shares of the Value Fund from 1/1/2000 to 10/31/2000.
If, however, you purchased an additional 100 shares of the Value Fund on January 1, 2002, you
should enter this purchase in another row in Table B. Your entries together would now show that
you owned 200 shares from 1/1/2002 to 10/31/2003. Make similar entries if you sold shares of
any other Eligible Fund in which you held an account during the Period that you claim received
an incorrect amount.
3. If you need additional space to list all your transactions, you can make copies of the tables
and attach them to the Dispute Form. Please write your name and social security or taxpayer
identification number on each extra page attached.
4. If you are filing as joint claimants, you should list in Tables A and B only the holdings and
transactions that you owned or made jointly. If you also owned shares in any Eligible Funds
individually, you must file a separate Dispute Form.
Section III: Documentation Requirements
1. You must submit documents with your Dispute Form that verify the number of shares you
held in accounts in Eligible Funds as of August 31, 1999 that you claim received an incorrect
amount (those you listed per Section II above). You must also submit documents that verify the
date of each purchase and sale of shares in Eligible Funds, and the number of shares purchased
or sold, for the time period from August 31, 1999 to October 31, 2003. This Section describes
the types of documents you can include. Place a checkmark by each document type you submit
with your claim.
2. If the documents are not in your possession, you should obtain copies from your investment
professional.
3. Do not send originals of your supporting documentation. Keep the originals for your records
and submit copies with the Dispute Form. We will not return any documents that you send with
this Form.
INSTEAD OF COMPLETING THE TABLES IN SECTION III, YOU MAY ATTACH
COPIES OF YOUR QUARTERLY ACCOUNT STATEMENTS FOR EACH QUARTER
IN THE PERIOD.

D-4
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
Section IV: Certification and Signature
1. You must sign and date your Dispute Form in this section. By signing, you are: (a) agreeing
to submit to the jurisdiction of the SEC; (b) consenting to the use of the information you provide
to verify your claim; (c) authorizing the release of your trading records to the IDC or Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator, and; (d) certifying under penalty of perjury to the truthfulness of
the information you have provided and the genuineness of the documentation submitted.
2. Sign the Dispute Form in the appropriate place, depending on whether you are submitting the
Form in your individual capacity, or on behalf of a corporation or other entity. If there are joint
claimants, all claimants must sign.
Section V: Filing the Dispute Form
This section provides the address and mailing instructions for your completed Dispute Form and
supporting documentation. Please make sure you have completed all sections, signed your Form,
and copied all documents before mailing.

D-5
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
Section I. CLAIMANT INFORMATION
1.
Claimant name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
2.
Claimant social security number or taxpayer identification number
3.
Joint Claimant name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
4.
Joint Claimant social security number or taxpayer identification number
5.
Claimant Street address

City

State

Zip code

6.
Foreign province (if applicable)

Foreign Country (if applicable)

7.
Agent name and title (If Claimant is a corporation or other entity, enter the name and title of the
person authorized to submit this Proof of Possible Entitlement.)
Representative information: Complete numbers 8 to 11 below only if you are the legal representative of
the claimant (for example, a guardian, the parent of a minor child, or the administrator of the estate of a
deceased claimant). Otherwise, leave these lines blank.
8.
Representative name (If an individual enter last name, first name, middle initial)
9.
Representative title
10.
Representative street address

City

State

Zip code

11.
Foreign province (if applicable)

Foreign Country (if applicable)

Contact Information: The person completing this Proof of Possible Entitlement should provide the
information requested in numbers 12 to 14 below: (a) the agent authorized to submit the Proof of Possible
Entitlement if the claimant is a corporation or other entity; (b) the representative, if the claimant has a
legal representative, or; (c) the claimant, if he or she is an individual.
12.
Daytime phone number

Evening phone number

(Include area code, or country code if applicable in all telephone number listings)
13.
Cellular phone or pager number

Facsimile number

14.
Email address (if available)

D-6
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
Section II. HOLDINGS AND TRANSACTIONS IN ELIGIBLE FUNDS
INSTEAD OF COMPLETING THE TABLES IN THIS SECTION II, YOU MAY
ATTACH COPIES OF YOUR ACCOUNT STATEMENT FOR EACH QUARTER
DURING THE PERIOD OF AUGUST 31, 1999 THROUGH OCTOBER 31, 2003.
TABLE A: SHARES OWNED AS OF 8/31/1999
Beginning Holdings: In the table below, list the number of shares you held in each Eligible
Fund on August 31, 1999. If you didn’t own any shares in a fund on that date or if you are not
disputing the amount received for an account in an Eligible Fund, enter “0”.
Name of Eligible Fund

Account Number

Broker Name

Number of
Shares Held on
8/31/1999

Massachusetts Investors Growth
Stock Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund
MFS Value Fund
MFS Government Mortgage Fund
TABLE B: SHARES PURCHASED OR SOLD FROM 9/1/1999 TO 10/31/2003
Subsequent Transactions: In the table below, separately list the date and number of each of
your purchases and sales of shares in the Eligible Funds listed in Table A between September 1,
1999 and October 31, 2003. If you need additional space, make copies of this blank page, and
write your name and social security number/taxpayer identification number on each extra page.
You need not enter sales or purchases for any of your Eligible Fund accounts that you are not
claiming received an incorrect amount.
Name of Fund

Account Number

Date of
Purchase
of Shares

D-7
US1DOCS 5606296v5

Number
of Shares
Purchased

Date of Sale of
Shares

Number of
Shares Sold

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
Section III. BASIS FOR DISPUTE FORM
In the space below, clearly state the reason why you believe that the amount of distribution
calculated by the IDC is incorrect. Your statement, together with the information in Section II,
must be sufficient for the IDC to verify your claim and recalculate the amount due to you.
General statements that you believe that you should receive more without supporting information
and documentation will result in your dispute being rejected.

(attach additional sheet of paper if space provided is not sufficient)
Section IV. DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS
If you maintain that you qualify for a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund, your
payment amount has been calculated based on the number of shares you held and the time period
that you held those shares in each of the Eligible Funds during the Period. Therefore you must
provide documentation that verifies the holdings and transactions you have listed in Section II of
this Dispute and is sufficient to show:
•

For each account, the number of shares in an Eligible Fund you owned on August 31,
1999

•

For each account, each date between 9/1/1999 and 10/31/2003 that you purchased
shares in an Eligible Fund, and the number of shares purchased

•

For each account, each date between 9/1/1999 and 10/31/2003 that you sold shares in
an Eligible Fund, and the number of shares sold

This documentation could include (but isn’t limited to): (1) account statements; (2) trade
confirmation slips; or (3) signed letters from your investment professional, on their firms’

D-8
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
letterheads, verifying your holdings and the dates and number of shares involved in your
purchases or sales of shares in the Eligible Funds.
Check below the type(s) of documentation you are submitting with this Dispute:
____ Account statements
____ Letter(s) from your investment professional
____ Trade confirmation slips
____ Other documentation showing holdings, purchases or sales
Do not send originals of your supporting documentation.
Provide copies only.

D-9
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT D
DISPUTE FORM – GENERAL INFORMATION AND INSTRUCTIONS
Section V. CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE
Each of the undersigned certifies and agrees:
1. I submit to the jurisdiction of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission for all purposes
in connection with this claim.
2. I consent to the use of any and all information provided in and with this Dispute by the IDC
or the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator (including my social security number/tax payer
identification number) for the purposes of verifying my claim.
3. I authorize the IDC or the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator to obtain and review any
and all trading records relevant to my transactions in any of the Eligible Funds from any
brokerage firm or other entity that has possession of such records, and further consent to the
release of such records by such brokerage firm or other entity to the IDC or the Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator.
4. I have personally completed this Dispute and declare under penalty of perjury that the
information submitted in this Dispute is true, complete, and accurate, and that the documents
submitted herewith are true and genuine.
Individuals

Corporations or Other Entities

Claimant signature

Date

Type or print name of Claimant
Signature of Joint Claimant

Authorized signature
Date

Type or print name of Joint Claimant

Name of entity
Date

Type or print name
Title

Section VI. FILING THE DISPUTE FORM
Your completed and signed Dispute Form, together with copies of all supporting documentation,
must be mailed and postmarked by [month, day, year] to:
MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator
P.O. Box xxx
Faribault, MN xxxxx-xxxx
Dispute Forms that are not postmarked by [month, day, year] will not be considered and
will be forever barred.
D - 10
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT E
NOTICE OF STATUS AS A DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY, ALLEGED DISQUALIFIED
BENEFICIARY OR POTENTIAL DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY

MFS QUALIFIED SETTLEMENT FUND DISTRIBUTION
IN THE MATTER OF MASSACHUSETTS FINANCIAL SERVICES CO.,
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING FILE NO. 3-11393
On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order (the
“Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. In connection with
the settlement, a fund (the “Qualified Settlement Fund”) was established with monies paid by
MFS and two of its officers from which investors, whom an independent consultant (the “IDC”)
determined were harmed by late trading and other market timing trading activity during the
relevant period, are to be compensated. The IDC has calculated losses incurred by shareholders
of these funds and developed a plan (the “Plan”) for distributing the settlement money to eligible
investors in the funds identified below (the “Eligible Funds”) during the period from September
1, 1999 (or in the case of certain Eligible Funds, a later date) through October 31, 2003 (the
“Period”). The SEC case is called In the Matter of Massachusetts Financial Services Co., John
W. Ballen and Kevin R. Parke, Admin. Proceeding File No. 3-11393.
The Order applies to the following mutual funds:
Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock
Fund
Massachusetts Investors Trust
MFS Bond Fund
MFS Cash Reserve Fund
MFS Emerging Growth Fund
MFS Value Fund

MFS Government Mortgage Fund
MFS Government Securities Fund
MFS Money Market Fund
MFS Research Fund
MFS Total Return Fund

While the Order applies to each of the Funds identified above, the IDC has determined that
only the Funds in bold incurred losses and consequently only certain shareholders of those
Eligible Funds are receiving a distribution under the Plan.
[Insert in letters to Disqualified Beneficiaries - Under the Plan, certain investors in the Eligible
Funds may be designated as Disqualified Beneficiaries, Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiaries and
Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries. The IDC has designated you as a Disqualified
Beneficiary because either MFS or the staff of the SEC have identified you as a person or entity
which has (a) been found in a final and non-appealable order of a court or regulatory body of
competent jurisdiction to have engaged in unlawful behavior affecting the Funds during the
Period, (b) has entered into a settlement of any proceeding before a court or regulatory body in
which such unlawful behavior has been alleged, unless the IDC determines that the settlement
should not be deemed an admission of such unlawful behavior, or (c) admitted in writing to such
behavior. As a Disqualified Beneficiary, you are not entitled to receive any payment from the
Qualified Settlement Fund. The determination of the IDC of your status as a Disqualified
Beneficiary is not appealable.]

E-1
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT E
NOTICE OF STATUS AS A DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY, ALLEGED DISQUALIFIED
BENEFICIARY OR POTENTIAL DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY

[Insert in letters to Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiaries - Under the Plan, certain investors in
the Eligible Funds may be designated as Disqualified Beneficiaries, Allegedly Disqualified
Beneficiaries and Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries. The IDC has designated you as an
Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary because the IDC became aware of pending proceedings
before a court or regulatory body of competent jurisdiction in which you are alleged by the SEC
or another party to have engaged in behavior affecting the Funds during the Period that would
constitute unlawful behavior if such allegations were true, and the IDC determined that such
alleged behavior is likely to have caused Losses if such allegations are true. Any distribution
that would otherwise be made to you under the Plan is instead being segregated in an escrow
account pending resolution of your proceedings. Upon resolution of such proceeding, including
resolution of any available appeals, the escrowed payments shall be disbursed as follows. If you
are specifically found in such proceeding to have engaged in unlawful behavior (or if the
proceeding is settled, you shall be deemed to have engaged in unlawful behavior unless the IDC
determines that the settlement should not be deemed an admission of such unlawful behavior)
and the IDC determines that such behavior is likely to have caused Losses, you shall be a
Disqualified Beneficiary and the escrowed payments that would otherwise have been paid to you
(including interest accrued on such escrowed payments) related to the accounts associated with
the activity that resulted in you being deemed a Disqualified Beneficiary shall be returned to the
Qualified Settlement Fund. If the proceeding is resolved and you are either not found to have
engaged in unlawful behavior relating to the Funds or the IDC determines that your behavior is
not likely to have caused Losses, then the escrowed payments shall be paid to you (including
interest accrued on such escrowed payments). No payment shall be made to you until you have
provided a written certification, in a form approved by the IDC that you did not engage in any
unlawful activity in connection with its investment in the Fund. If such certification is not
provided to the IDC within 18 months after the Transfer Date, you shall no longer be entitled to
any distribution under the Plan. If you have evidence that a proceeding involving you that gave
raise to your designation as an Allegedly Disqualified Beneficiary has been resolved, you should
submit that information to the Qualified Settlement Funds Administrator at the address at the end
of this letter.]
[Insert in letters to Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries - Under the Plan, certain investors in
the Eligible Funds may be designated as Disqualified Beneficiaries, Allegedly Disqualified
Beneficiaries and Potentially Disqualified Beneficiaries. The IDC has designated you as a
Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary because the analysis undertaken by the IDC in connection
with the determination of Losses indicates that it is likely that trading in your account caused
Losses that exceed $5,000. Any distribution that would otherwise be made to you is instead
being segregated in an escrow account pending determination of your entitlement thereto. If you
do not contest such designation in writing sent to the IDC By , 2006, you shall be a
Disqualified Beneficiary and shall not be entitled to any payment under the Plan. If you
provide timely notice of contest of your designation as a Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary,
any distributions that would otherwise be made to you shall instead be segregated in the escrow
account pending resolution of any proceedings regarding your investment in the Fund. Upon
resolution of each such proceeding or if no proceeding is commenced by
, 2007, including
resolution of any available appeals, the escrowed payments shall be disbursed as follows. If you
E-2
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT E
NOTICE OF STATUS AS A DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY, ALLEGED DISQUALIFIED
BENEFICIARY OR POTENTIAL DISQUALIFIED BENEFICIARY

are specifically found in such proceeding to have engaged in unlawful behavior (or if the
proceeding is settled, you shall be deemed to have engaged in unlawful behavior unless the IDC
determines that the settlement should not be deemed an admission of such unlawful behavior)
and the IDC determines that such behavior is likely to have caused Losses, you shall be a
Disqualified Beneficiary and the escrowed payments that would otherwise have been paid to you
(including interest accrued on such escrowed payments) related to the accounts associated with
the activity that resulted in your being deemed a Disqualified Beneficiary shall be returned to
the Qualified Settlement Fund. If no proceeding is commenced or a proceeding is resolved and
you are either not found to have engaged in unlawful behavior relating to the Funds or the IDC
determines that such behavior is not likely to have caused Losses, then the escrowed payments
shall be paid to you (including interest accrued on such escrowed payments). No payment shall
be made to you until you have provided a written certification, in a form approved by the IDC,
that you did not engage in any unlawful activity in connection with its investment in the Fund. If
such certification is not provided to the IDC within 18 months after the Transfer Date, the
Potentially Disqualified Beneficiary shall no longer be entitled to any distribution under this
Plan]
If you have any questions, you can call the MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator toll
free at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx (hearing impaired call 1-yyy-yyy-yyyy).

E-3
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT F
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO HOLDERS OF
IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS

On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order
(the “Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. Pursuant to the
Order, a settlement fund was established (the “Settlement Fund”) from which this money will be
distributed to eligible investors of certain mutual funds advised by MFS (“Affected Investors”)
who were harmed by late trading and other market timing trading activity during the relevant
period. Your IRA Retirement Account may have had an account at one of those mutual funds, or
may have invested in the mutual fund through an insurance company annuity, a broker or other
third party that maintained an omnibus account at the mutual fund for its clients.
A distribution plan has been developed by the independent distribution consultant and
approved by the SEC to distribute the assets of the Settlement Fund to Affected Investors (the
“Distribution Plan”).
Payment
Under the Distribution Plan, the IRA trustee or custodian itself is the investor eligible to
receive a payment from the Settlement Fund, not the individual for whose benefit the IRA
Retirement Account is maintained (the “IRA Owner”). This payment is being made by the check
accompanying this notice, which is made payable to the trustee or custodian of the IRA, as
shown on the mutual fund’s, annuity issuer’s or omnibus account holder’s records. If you are the
IRA Owner, you have received this letter because your address is the address shown on the
mutual fund's, or omnibus account holder’s records as the address of the IRA. (If you are the
IRA trustee or custodian, your address was shown on the records.) As described below, to avoid
a taxable distribution, this check should be deposited in the IRA, not cashed by the IRA
Owner.
This check will be cancelled if it is not cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days
after issuance.
Handling the Payment
Nontaxable
To avoid a currently taxable distribution from the IRA, it is important that the Settlement
Fund distributions be handled properly. Briefly, to avoid a currently taxable distribution:
(1)

If the IRA still has the same trustee or custodian, the IRA custodian or trustee, as
shown on the check, simply can cash the enclosed check and deposit it in the IRA.
If you are the IRA Owner, you should send the check to the IRA trustee or
custodian with instructions to deposit the check in your IRA account, as well as
instructions on how to invest the deposit. It is important to instruct the trustee or
custodian that the amount represents a payment from a Settlement Fund and
F-1

US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT F
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO HOLDERS OF
IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS
should not be designated as a contribution to the IRA, but instead should be
treated in the same manner as a non-taxable trustee-to-trustee transfer of assets.
(2)

If the IRA Owner no longer maintains an IRA with the trustee or custodian to
whom the check is payable, that check can be cancelled and a new check can be
issued to the trustee or custodian of any IRA currently maintained for the benefit
of the IRA Owner. Note that this could include an IRA newly established by the
IRA Owner. The IRA Owner should send such new check to the IRA trustee or
custodian with instructions to deposit the check in his or her IRA account, as well
as instructions as to how to invest the deposit. It is important to instruct the
trustee or custodian that the amount represents a payment from a Settlement Fund
and should not be designated as a contribution to the IRA, but instead should be
treated in the same manner as a non-taxable trustee-to-trustee transfer of assets.

(3)

As an alternative to (2) above, if the IRA trustee or custodian receives a
Settlement Fund distribution check but no longer maintains an IRA for the IRA
Owner, it may transfer (including by means of endorsing over) the Settlement
Fund distribution amount directly to a successor trustee or custodian of another
IRA that is maintained for the benefit of the IRA Owner, provided that each IRA
trustee or custodian shall make its own determination whether or not to use this
method (3). An IRA Owner can not endorse a check issued to an IRA trustee or
custodian.

If you are the IRA Owner, please contact the IRA trustee or custodian named on the
check or the person(s) identified in “Questions?” below for further information and to assure
proper handling of the Distribution Plan payment to avoid a currently taxable IRA distribution.
IRA Owners who need a new check issued (option (2) above) can contact the MFS Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator.
Taxable
The distribution also in some circumstances could be taxable. If the IRA Owner no
longer maintains an IRA or the IRA Owner otherwise requests a distribution from his or her
IRA, a check can be issued to the IRA Owner (the IRA Owner should contact the person(s)
identified in “Questions?” below to request such a check), and
(1)
If the IRA Owner cashes the check, he or she will be subject to tax on the amount
received, and also will be subject to an excise tax on the amount if the IRA Owner is under age
59 1/2, unless one of the other exceptions to the excise tax on early distributions applies. The
distribution will be reported in the same manner as any other IRA distribution.
(2)
Alternatively, to avoid current taxation, if the IRA Owner cashes the check, he or
she may elect to roll over the proceeds within sixty (60) days of the distribution to another IRA,
provided all the requirements for IRA rollover contributions are satisfied.

F-2
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT F
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO HOLDERS OF
IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS
Any IRA Owner who is considering electing a taxable distribution is encouraged to seek
professional advice prior to making that election.
Certain Tax Information
[NOTE: This disclosure assumes that the IRS issues a ruling to the effect that the entire amount of
the distribution (including the portion attributable to return of advisory fees) is a return of basis.
This disclosure will need to be revised if the IRS issues a different ruling, or issues no ruling.]
The attached information letter from the IRS is a summary of the material U.S. federal income tax
consequences to you of receiving a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund. This discussion is
based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), laws, regulations, rulings and
decisions in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect,
and to varying interpretations, which could result in U.S. federal income tax consequences different from
those described below. In addition, this discussion is based on a ruling obtained by the Qualified
Settlement Fund from the Internal Revenue Service regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences
of the payment.
Except as specifically set forth in the attached information letter from the IRS, this discussion
addresses only the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the receipt of a payment to you if you are a
citizen or resident of the U.S. for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This discussion does not address all
of the U.S. federal income tax consequences that may be relevant to you in light of your individual
circumstances. This discussion does not address the tax consequences to you under any state, local or
non-U.S. tax laws or the alternative minimum tax provisions of the Code.
YOU ARE URGED TO CONSULT YOUR TAX ADVISER WITH RESPECT TO THE
SPECIFIC TAX CONSEQUENCES TO YOU OF RECEIVING THE PAYMENT, INCLUDING
THE EFFECTS OF U.S. FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL AND NON-U.S. TAX RULES AND THE
EFFECT OF POSSIBLE CHANGES IN LAWS THAT MAY AFFECT THE TAX
CONSEQUENCES DESCRIBED IN THIS NOTICE.

Questions?
The MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator is available to assist IRA custodians,
trustees and Owners in dealing with the Settlement Fund distribution. If an IRA custodian,
trustee or Owner, or any other person assisting in the allocation and treatment of Settlement Fund
distribution payments to an IRA, has any questions, please contact the Qualified Settlement Fund
Administrator toll free at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx (hearing impaired call 1-yyy-yyy-yyyy).

You can find a question and answer guide for IRA Retirement Accounts and a form
of letter that you can use to direct the deposit and investment of the check with the trustee
or custodian of your IRA Retirement Account on [website].

F-3
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT G(1)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS
OTHER THAN SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS AND
DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS
On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order
(the “Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. Pursuant to the
Order, a settlement fund was established (the “Settlement Fund”) from which this money will be
distributed to eligible investors in certain mutual funds advised by MFS (“Affected Investors”)
who were harmed by late trading and other market timing trading activity during the relevant
period. The retirement plan 6 entitled to the enclosed payment (the “Plan”) may have had an
account at one of those mutual funds or may have invested through an insurance company
annuity, a broker or other third party that maintained an omnibus account at the mutual fund for
its clients.
A distribution plan has been developed by the independent distribution consultant and
approved by the SEC to distribute the assets of the Settlement Fund to Affected Investors (the
“Distribution Plan”).
Payment
Under the Distribution Plan, the Plan itself is the investor eligible to receive a payment
from the Settlement Fund. The check accompanying this notice is made payable to the trustee or
other holder acting on behalf of the Plan, as shown on the mutual fund’s or omnibus account
holder’s records.
If you are the Plan participant, you have received this letter because your address is the
address shown on the mutual fund’s or omnibus account holder’s records as the address of the
Plan or Plan account. A participant should send the check, with this notice, to the Plan trustee or
employer sponsor for allocation to the Plan. A participant should not cash the check.
This check will be cancelled if it is not cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days
after issuance.
Handling the Payment
If the Plan still has the same Trustee, the Trustee simply can cash the Settlement Fund
distribution check and deposit it in the Plan’s trust.
If the Trustee to whom the Settlement Fund distribution check is made payable is no
longer the Plan’s Trustee, it may transfer (including by means of endorsing over) the Settlement
Fund distribution amount directly to the successor Trustee or contact the MFS Qualified
Settlement Fund Administrator to have the check cancelled and a new check issued to the
successor Trustee.

6

The plan may be a defined contribution plans, such as a 401(k) plan, profit sharing plan or money purchase
pension plan, a nonqualified deferred compensation plan, or a 403(b) plan where there is employer involvement.

G(1) - 1
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT G(1)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS
OTHER THAN SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS AND
DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS
Alternatively (for example, if the Trustee to whom the Settlement Fund distribution
check is made payable does not know the identity of the current Plan Trustee), the former
Trustee can send the check to the employer plan sponsor with this notice and have the plan
sponsor contact the MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator to have a replacement check
issued.
Allocation of Payment
The “plan administrator” of the Plan (or other fiduciary that has the responsibility for
such determinations) must decide how the distribution from the Settlement Fund should be
allocated among the participants and beneficiaries under the Plan. The plan administrator’s
decision regarding how to allocate the Settlement Fund distribution must be in accordance with
the terms of the Plan, and also must be in accordance with any fiduciary duties under the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA") or other applicable
law. The plan administrator’s decision also must be in accordance with other applicable
provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code or 1986, as amended (the "Code") and/or
other applicable law.
The following methodologies are provided for allocating the Settlement Fund distribution
pursuant to the Distribution Plan. These methodologies are made available by the IDC for
purposes of U.S. Department of Labor Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2006-01 (the “FAB”).
These are not necessarily the only possible methods. It is imperative, however, that whatever
allocation method the plan administrator ultimately chooses be in accordance with the Plan and
its fiduciary duties under ERISA or other applicable law. Neither the Internal Revenue Service
nor the U.S. Department of Labor has reviewed these methods.
Alternative 1
Allocate the distribution payment pro rata among the accounts of all persons who are
currently participants in the Plan (whether or not they are currently employees).
Alternative 2
Allocate the distribution payment per capita among the accounts of all persons who are
currently participants in the Plan (whether or not they are currently employees).
Alternative 3
If the plan administrator determines that it is impracticable to allocate the distribution the
Plan receives among Plan participants and beneficiaries because the amount that would be
allocable to participants under Alternative 1 or Alternative 2 is too small, a third alternative is to
allocate the distribution payment to the Plan’s forfeiture account and allocate those amounts,
together with other amounts credited to the forfeiture account, in accordance with the terms of
the Plan.
G(1) - 2
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT G(1)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS
OTHER THAN SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS AND
DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS
Alternative 4
Allocate the distribution payment in any other administratively feasible method that the
Plan Administrator determines to be in accordance with the Plan, the FAB, ERISA and the Code
or other applicable law.
Again, it is the plan administrator’s responsibility to determine the method for
allocating Settlement Fund distributions that is appropriate for the Plan. The plan
administrator may wish to seek professional advice to assist in making this determination.
Certain Tax Information
[NOTE: This disclosure assumes that the IRS issues a ruling to the effect that the entire amount of
the distribution (including the portion attributable to return of advisory fees) is a return of basis.
This disclosure will need to be revised if the IRS issues a different ruling, or issues no ruling.]
The attached information letter from the IRS is a summary of the material U.S. federal income tax
consequences to you of receiving a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund. This discussion is
based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), laws, regulations, rulings and
decisions in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect,
and to varying interpretations, which could result in U.S. federal income tax consequences different from
those described below. In addition, this discussion is based on a ruling obtained by the Qualified
Settlement Fund from the Internal Revenue Service regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences
of the payment.
Except as specifically set forth in the attached information letter from the IRS, this discussion
addresses only the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the receipt of a payment to you if you are a
citizen or resident of the U.S. for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This discussion does not address all
of the U.S. federal income tax consequences that may be relevant to you in light of your individual
circumstances. This discussion does not address the tax consequences to you under any state, local or
non-U.S. tax laws or the alternative minimum tax provisions of the Code.
YOU ARE URGED TO CONSULT YOUR TAX ADVISER WITH RESPECT TO THE
SPECIFIC TAX CONSEQUENCES TO YOU OF RECEIVING THE PAYMENT, INCLUDING
THE EFFECTS OF U.S. FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL AND NON-U.S. TAX RULES AND THE
EFFECT OF POSSIBLE CHANGES IN LAWS THAT MAY AFFECT THE TAX
CONSEQUENCES DESCRIBED IN THIS NOTICE.

Questions?
The MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator is available to assist the plan
administrator in dealing with the Settlement Fund distribution. If the plan administrator, or any
other person assisting in the allocation and treatment of Settlement Fund distribution payments to
G(1) - 3
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT G(1)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS
OTHER THAN SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS AND
DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS
the Plan, has any questions, please contact the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator toll free
at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx (hearing impaired call 1-yyy-yyy-yyyy).

G(1) - 4
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT G(2)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO CUSTODIANS OF NON-IRA RETIREMENT
ACCOUNTS THAT ARE SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS
On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order
(the “Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. Pursuant to the
Order, a settlement fund was established (the “Settlement Fund”) from which this money will be
distributed to eligible investors in certain mutual funds advised by MFS (“Affected Investors”)
who were harmed by late trading and other market timing trading activity during the relevant
period. The 403(b) account entitled to the enclosed payment (“403(b)” or “403(b) account”)
may have had an account at one of those mutual funds or may have invested through an
insurance company annuity, a broker or other third party that maintained an omnibus account at
the mutual fund for its clients.
A distribution plan has been developed by the independent distribution consultant and
approved by the SEC to distribute the assets of the Settlement Fund to Affected Investors (the
“Distribution Plan”).
Payment
Under the Distribution Plan, the 403(b) itself is the investor eligible to receive a payment
from the Settlement Fund. This payment will be made by check, which will be made payable to
the custodian or other holder acting on behalf of the 403(b), as shown on the mutual fund’s,
annuity issuer’s or omnibus account holder’s records. If you are the individual for whose benefit
the 403(b) is maintained (the "Participant"), you have received this letter because your address is
the address shown on the mutual fund's, annuity issuer’s or omnibus account holder’s records as
the address of the 403(b). (If you are the custodian, your address was shown on the records.) As
described below, to avoid a taxable distribution and possible disqualification of the 403(b), this
check should be deposited in the Participant’s 403(b); it must not be cashed by the Participant.
This check will be cancelled if it is not cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days
after issuance.
Handling the Payment
Under Section 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), it
is not permissible for a distribution to be made from a 403(b) account until attainment of age 59
1/2, severance from employment, disability, death, or (in certain cases) hardship (a “Distribution
Event”). Therefore, the check issued to the 403(b) custodian must be deposited in the 403(b)
account or in another 403(b) that is eligible to receive and hold a transfer or rollover from a
403(b) account. It is important that the Settlement Fund distributions be handled properly to
avoid an impermissible distribution, as follows.
(1)

If the 403(b) still has the same custodian, the 403(b) custodian simply can cash
the Settlement Fund distribution check and deposit it in the 403(b). If you are the
403(b) Participant you should send the check to the 403(b) custodian with
instructions to deposit the check in your 403(b) account, as well as instructions as
to how to invest the deposit. It is important to instruct the custodian that the
G(2) - 1

US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT G(2)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO CUSTODIANS OF NON-IRA RETIREMENT
ACCOUNTS THAT ARE SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS
amount represents a payment from a Settlement Fund and should not be
designated as a contribution to the 403(b), but instead should be treated in the
same manner as a non-taxable trustee-to-trustee transfer or direct rollover of
assets.
(2)

If the Participant no longer maintains a 403(b) with the custodian to whom the
check is payable, that check can be cancelled and a new check can be issued to
the custodian of any 403(b) currently maintained for the benefit of the Participant.
Note that this could include a 403(b) newly established by the Participant. The
Participant should send such new check to the 403(b) custodian with instructions
to deposit the check in his or her 403(b) account, as well as instructions as to how
to invest the deposit. It is important to instruct the custodian that the amount
represents a payment from a Settlement Fund and should not be designated as a
contribution to the 403(b) account, but instead be treated in the same manner as a
non-taxable trustee-to-trustee transfer or direct rollover of assets.

(3)

As an alternative to (2) above, if the 403(b) custodian receives a Settlement Fund
distribution check but no longer maintains a 403(b) for the Participant, it may
transfer (including by means of endorsing over) the Settlement Fund distribution
amount directly to a successor custodian of another 403(b) that is maintained for
the benefit of the Participant, provided that each 403(b) custodian shall make its
own determination whether or not to use this method (3).

If the Participant has had a Distribution Event and wishes to receive a distribution of the
Settlement Fund payment from his or her 403(b), the Participant should contact the 403(b)
custodian or the person(s) identified in “Questions?” below. The Participant might wish to
consult a competent adviser regarding the tax consequences of such a distribution.
In general, please contact the 403(b) custodian named on the check or the person(s)
identified in “Questions?” below for further information and to assure proper handling of the
Distribution Plan payment.
Certain Tax Information
[NOTE: This disclosure assumes that the IRS issues a ruling to the effect that the entire amount of
the distribution (including the portion attributable to return of advisory fees) is a return of basis.
This disclosure will need to be revised if the IRS issues a different ruling, or issues no ruling.]
The attached information letter from the IRS is a summary of the material U.S. federal income tax
consequences to you of receiving a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund. This discussion is
based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), laws, regulations, rulings and
decisions in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect,
and to varying interpretations, which could result in U.S. federal income tax consequences different from
those described below. In addition, this discussion is based on a ruling obtained by the Qualified
Settlement Fund from the Internal Revenue Service regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences
of the payment.

G(2) - 2
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT G(2)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE TO CUSTODIANS OF NON-IRA RETIREMENT
ACCOUNTS THAT ARE SALARY REDUCTION ONLY 403(B) ACCOUNTS
Except as specifically set forth in the attached information letter from the IRS, this discussion
addresses only the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the receipt of a payment to you if you are a
citizen or resident of the U.S. for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This discussion does not address all
of the U.S. federal income tax consequences that may be relevant to you in light of your individual
circumstances. This discussion does not address the tax consequences to you under any state, local or
non-U.S. tax laws or the alternative minimum tax provisions of the Code.
YOU ARE URGED TO CONSULT YOUR TAX ADVISER WITH RESPECT TO THE
SPECIFIC TAX CONSEQUENCES TO YOU OF RECEIVING THE PAYMENT, INCLUDING
THE EFFECTS OF U.S. FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL AND NON-U.S. TAX RULES AND THE
EFFECT OF POSSIBLE CHANGES IN LAWS THAT MAY AFFECT THE TAX
CONSEQUENCES DESCRIBED IN THIS NOTICE.

Questions?
The Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator is available to assist 403(b) custodians and
Participants in dealing with the Settlement Fund distribution. If a 403(b) custodian, Participant,
or any other person assisting in the allocation and treatment of Settlement Fund distribution
payments to a 403(b), has any questions, please contact the Qualified Settlement Fund
Administrator toll free at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx (hearing impaired call 1-yyy-yyy-yyyy).
You can find a question and answer guide for salary reduction only 403(b) accounts
and a form of letter that you can use to direct the deposit and investment of the check with
the custodian of your 403(b) account on [website].

G(2) - 3
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT G(3)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR DEFINED BENEFIT
NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS
On February 5, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) entered an order
(the “Order”) approving a settlement in connection with an administrative proceeding against
Massachusetts Financial Services Company (“MFS”) and two of its officers. Pursuant to the
Order, a settlement fund was established (the “Settlement Fund”) from which this money will be
distributed to eligible investors in certain mutual funds advised by MFS (“Affected Investors”)
who were harmed by late trading and other market timing trading activity during the relevant
period. The defined benefit retirement plan entitled to the enclosed payment (the “Plan”) may
have had an account at one of those mutual funds or may have invested through an insurance
company annuity, a broker or other third party that maintained an omnibus account at the mutual
fund for its clients.
A distribution plan has been developed by the independent distribution consultant and
approved by the SEC to distribute the assets of the Settlement Fund to Affected Investors (the
“Distribution Plan”).
Payment
Under the Distribution Plan, the Plan itself is the investor eligible to receive a payment
from the Settlement Fund. This payment will be made by check, which will be made payable to
the trustee or other holder acting on behalf of the Plan (“Trustee”), as shown on the mutual
fund’s or omnibus account holder’s records.
This check will be cancelled if it is not cashed within one hundred eighty (180) days after
issuance.
Handling the Payment
The Trustee of the Plan (or other fiduciary that has the responsibility for such
determinations), must decide how to handle the distribution from the Settlement Fund. The
Trustee’s decision regarding application of the Settlement Fund distribution must be in
accordance with the terms of the Plan, and also must be in accordance with any fiduciary duties
under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (" ERISA") or other
applicable law. The Trustee’s decision also must be in accordance with other applicable
provisions of ERISA and the Internal Revenue Code or 1986, as amended (the "Code") and/or
other applicable law.
If the Plan still has the same Trustee, the Trustee simply can cash the Settlement Fund
distribution check and deposit it in the Plan’s trust.
If the Trustee to whom the Settlement Fund distribution check is made payable is no
longer the Plan’s Trustee, it may transfer (including by means of endorsing over) the Settlement
Fund distribution amount directly to the successor Trustee.
Alternatively (for example, if the Trustee to whom the Settlement Fund distribution
check is made payable does not know the identity of the current Plan Trustee), the former
G(3) - 1
US1DOCS 5606296v5

EXHIBIT G(3)
INSTRUCTION AND TAX NOTICE FOR DEFINED BENEFIT
NON-IRA RETIREMENT ACCOUNTS
Trustee can contact the MFS Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator. That check can be
cancelled and a new check can be issued to the current Plan Trustee.
If a new check is to be issued, please contact the Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator.
Certain Tax Information
[NOTE: This disclosure assumes that the IRS issues a ruling to the effect that the entire amount of
the distribution (including the portion attributable to return of advisory fees) is a return of basis.
This disclosure will need to be revised if the IRS issues a different ruling, or issues no ruling.]
The attached information letter from the IRS is a summary of the material U.S. federal income tax
consequences to you of receiving a payment from the Qualified Settlement Fund. This discussion is
based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), laws, regulations, rulings and
decisions in effect on the date hereof, all of which are subject to change, possibly with retroactive effect,
and to varying interpretations, which could result in U.S. federal income tax consequences different from
those described below. In addition, this discussion is based on a ruling obtained by the Qualified
Settlement Fund from the Internal Revenue Service regarding the U.S. federal income tax consequences
of the payment.
Except as specifically set forth in the attached information letter from the IRS, this discussion
addresses only the U.S. federal income tax consequences of the receipt of a payment to you if you are a
citizen or resident of the U.S. for U.S. federal income tax purposes. This discussion does not address all
of the U.S. federal income tax consequences that may be relevant to you in light of your individual
circumstances. This discussion does not address the tax consequences to you under any state, local or
non-U.S. tax laws or the alternative minimum tax provisions of the Code.
YOU ARE URGED TO CONSULT YOUR TAX ADVISER WITH RESPECT TO THE
SPECIFIC TAX CONSEQUENCES TO YOU OF RECEIVING THE PAYMENT, INCLUDING
THE EFFECTS OF U.S. FEDERAL, STATE, LOCAL AND NON-U.S. TAX RULES AND THE
EFFECT OF POSSIBLE CHANGES IN LAWS THAT MAY AFFECT THE TAX
CONSEQUENCES DESCRIBED IN THIS NOTICE.

Questions?
The Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator is available to assist the Trustee in dealing
with the Settlement Fund distribution. If the Trustee, or any other person assisting in handling
Settlement Fund distribution payments to the Plan, has any questions, please contact the
Qualified Settlement Fund Administrator toll free at 1-xxx-xxx-xxx (hearing impaired call 1yyy-yyy-yyyy).

G(3) - 2
US1DOCS 5606296v5

