UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

Before the

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION


ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11676

In the Matter of

JOHN W. ADAMS and AlP, LLC,
PROPOSED PLAN OF
DISTRIBUTION
Respondents.

OVERVIEW
The Division of Enforcement ("Division") submits the following Distribution Plan to the
Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") pursuant to Rule 1101 ofthe Commission's
Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. §201.11 01. This Distribution Plan proposes
distributing $2,470,471 paid by John W. Adams ("Adams"), the former ChiefExecutive Officer and
Chairman of the Board of Hawaiian Airlines ("Hawaiian"), and AlP, LLC ("AlP"), Hawaiian's
former controlling shareholder (collectively known as the "Respondents") as the result of an
enforcement action brought by the Commission against Respondents involving a June 2002 issuer
tender offer in which Hawaiian Airlines repurchased $25 million ofstock from its shareholders while
failing to disclose that the company had suffered a significant economic downturn.

This Distribution Plan is subject to the notice and comment procedure set forth in paragraph
48. This Distribution Plan is subject to approval by the Commission, and the Commission retains
jurisdiction over implementation of the Distribution Plan.

I.

FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
A.

Settlement Description

1.

On September 23,2004, the Commission entered an Order hIstituting Cease-and-

Desist Proceedings, Making Findings, and hnposing a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Order") against the Respondents. John W. Adams
and AIP, LLC, Exchange Act Release No. 50427 (September 23,2004). The Commission accepted
the Respondents' Offer of Settlement in which they consented to the issuance ofthe Order without
admitting

or

denying

the

Commission's

findings.

The

Order

is

published

at

http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/34-50427.htm.
2.

hI the Order, the Commission found that the Respondents caused Hawaiian to violate

the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 by failing to update material information published in
Hawaiian's tender offer documents in mid-2002 concerning Hawaiian's ability to afford the tender
offer and remain solvent. Minority shareholders who, unlike the Respondents, declined to tender
their shares, found the value of their stock significantly diminished when the negative financial
information concerning Hawaiian was made public.
3.

The Commission ordered AIP to pay disgorgement of$2,229, 193, plus prejudgment

interest of$237,094, and required Adams to pay disgorgement of$3,782, plus prejudgment interest

2


of $402, representing the Respondents' alleged unjust enrichment from the above-described
violations of the federal securities laws.
4.

The Order required, among other things, that the above-referenced disgorgement

amounts be paid into an interest bearing escrow account and that the escrowed funds be disbursed
only pursuant to an order ofthe Commission. By October 12, 2004, Respondents paid the monies
called for under the Order into an escrow account. On October 13, 2005, the funds were transferred
to the U.S. Department ofTreasury Bureau ofPublic Debt ("BPD") and have been invested in short­
term U.S. Treasury bills. Other than interest from these investments, it is not anticipated that the
Disgorgement Fund will receive additional funds.

B.

Appointment of Fund Administrator

5.

The Commission has appointed Gilardi & Co., LLC ("Gilardi") as the Fund

Administrator of the Distribution Plan. See Order Approving Publication of Notice of Proposed
Distribution Plan and Opportunity for Comment. Approving Plan Administrator, and Approving
Administrator Bond, Exchange Act Release No. 59431 (February 20,2009). Gilardi is a class action
notice and claims administrator with principal business offices located in San Rafael, California.
Gilardi shall be entitled to reasonable fees in accordance with the proposal submitted to the
Commission and shall be entitled to reimbursement for reasonable costs and expenses from the
Disgorgement Fund. The fees and expenses for the administration ofthe DisgorgementFund will be
paid first from interest earned on the invested funds, then, if not sufficient, from the corpus.

3


C.

Bond

6.

Gilardi shall post a bond in the amount of the $2,500,000.00 within 30 days after

approval ofthis Distribution Plan, pursuant to Rule 11 05(c) ofthe Commission's Rilles on Fair Fund
and Disgorgement Plans, which covers the base amount paid by Respondents.

D.

Appointment of Tax Administrator

7.

The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates as the Tax Administrator

("Tax Administrator") of the Distribution Fund.

See Order Directing Appointment of Tax

Administrator, Exchange Act Release No. 51341 (March 9, 2005). The Fund Administrator and
Respondents will cooperate with the Tax Administrator in providing information necessary to
accomplish the income tax compliance, and any other tax-related work to the Tax Administrator by
the Commission staff. The Tax Administrator shall be compensated from the interest earned on the
Disgorgement Fund, and ifthe interest is not sufficient, then from the corpus.

E.

Duties of Fund Administrator

8.

Gilardi will be responsible for, among other things, overseeing the administration of

the Disgorgement Fund, obtaining accurate mailing information for shareholders, preparing
accountings, cooperating with the tax administrator in providing the information necessary to
accomplish the income tax compliance, distributing money from the Disgorgement Fund to
shareholders in accordance with this Plan, and setting up and staffing a call center to address Eligible
Recipient's questions or concerns regarding the distribution.
9.

Gilardi shall ensure that sufficient amounts are withheld from the Disgorgement Fund

to satisfy any tax liability and to pay the Tax Administrator's fees and reimbursable costs.
4


10.

Gilardi shall file with Commission staff a quarterly application for fees and

reimbursement of costs and expenses. Commission staffwill obtain an order approving such an
application and arrange for payment.
11.

In carrying out its duties, Gilardi may be assisted by the Commission staff or others

acting under its supervision. In addition, Gilardi shall be entitled to rely on the infonnation provided
by Respondents and others concerning the identification of the Eligible Recipients as well as the
number of Hawaiian shares purchased in the Tender Offer.

II.

DEFINED TERMS
12.

This Distribution Plan uses a number of tenns that have specific meanings and

references for purposes of this Plan:
a.

"Approval Date" means the date on which this Distribution Plan is approved

by the Commission;
b.

"Claim Deadline" means the date by which all Claim Fonns must be returned

to the Fund Administrator in order to be eligible to receive any payment from the Fund. The
Claims Deadline will be approximately 90 days after the Claim Fonns are mailed;
c.

"Claim Fonn" means the fonn which will be mailed from the Fund

Administrator (or his agents) to certain potentially Eligible Recipients seeking relevant
transaction data which must be verified and, if necessary, supported by evidence from the
potentially Eligible Recipient to be eligible for payment from the Fund;
d.

"Disgorgement Fund" or "Fund" shall mean the $2,470,471 in disgorgement

and prejudgment interest paid by Adams and AIP for ultimate distribution to Eligible
5


Recipients, plus any interest earned and less any taxes, fees, or expenses incurred for any
reserves and the administration of the distribution plan;
e.

"Distribution Date" means the date that distribution checks are mailed to

Eligible Recipients, which will be approximately 150 days after the Claim Deadline;
f.

"Eligible Recipient" shall mean the holders of Hawaiian's outstanding

common stock at the close ofthe market on June 27,2002 who (a) did not tender their shares
to Hawaiian in the Tender Offer; or (b) who tendered their shares but who timely withdrew
that tender and whose shares were not purchased by Hawaiian in the Tender Offer. At the
time ofthe Tender Offer, Hawaiian's stock traded under the symbol "HA" on the American
Stock Exchange and Pacific Stock Exchange (CUSIP number 001751-41987910);
g.

"Fund Administrator" shall mean Gilardi, appointed by the Commission to

administer the Distribution Plan in accordance with the Commission's Rules on Fair Fund
and Disgorgement Plans; and
h.

"Tender Offer" shall mean the issuer tender offer (as that term is defined in

Rule 13(a)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) proposed by Hawaiian on May 31,
2002 with a closing date on June 27,2002.

6


III.

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLAN
A.

Identification of Eligible Recipients

13.

According to this Distribution Plan, Eligible Recipients are limited to those who did

not tender their shares to Hawaiian in the Tender Offer; or who tendered their shares but who timely
withdrew that tender and whose shares were not purchased by Hawaiian in the Tender Offer.
14.

On the basis of its investigation, and using records and information provided by

Respondents and/or third parties, the Division has collected information that identifies shareholders
who did and did not tender shares in the Tender Offer. The Division will provide this information to
the Fund Administrator.
15.

The Fund Administrator shall take all reasonable steps to ascertain the identity and

location of potentially Eligible Recipients. In particular, the Fund Administrator shall prepare a
claim package consisting of a summary of the Distribution Plan and its purpose ("Summary"),
instructions for filing a Claim Form ("Instructions"), and a Claim Form ("Claim Package"), which
shall be submitted for Commission staff review and approvaL
16.

The Fund Administrator shall take reasonable steps to obtain from Hawaiian's

transfer agent and/or the Depository/Information Agent for the Tender Offer (Mellon Investor
Services LLC) information sufficient to identify all ofthe shareholders who did and did not tender
their Hawaiian shares in the Tender Offer.
17.

The Fund Administrator shall also place notices concerning the Disgorgement Fund in

the Honolulu Advertiser, Honolulu Star Bulletin and a wire service. Any person or entity responding
to the notice before the Claim Deadline shall be sent a Claim Package.
7


B.

Claims Process

18.

Within 30 days after this Distribution Plan is approved (the "Approval Date"), the

Fund Administrator shall begin to cause the Claim Package to be sent to all potentially Eligible
Recipients by First Class Mail.
19.

Where shares are held by brokers and nominees, the Fund Administrator shall take

reasonable steps to solicit the names and addresses of the non-tendering shareholders from the
brokers and nominees, and shall cause the Claim Package to be sent to the potentially Eligible
Recipients by First Class Mail, requesting potentially Eligible Recipients to send in completed Claim
Forms by the Claim Deadline.
20.

The Fund Administrator shall attempt to locate any Eligible Recipient whose Claim

Form has been returned by the U.S. Postal Service ("USPS") as undeliverable.

The Fund

Administrator shall immediately remail any returned undelivered mail for which the USPS has
provided a forwarding address. Additionally, the Fund Administrator may engage a third-party
search firm to conduct more rigorous searches for missing Eligible Recipients. Additional efforts to
identify new addresses for returned undelivered mail will be conducted as necessary and
economically reasonable after consultation with the staff ofthe Commission.
21.

All claims, which must be in writing, shall be accompanied by such documentary

evidence as the Fund Administrator deems necessary or appropriate to substantiate the claim. Each
Eligible Recipient must verify on his Claim Form that he did not tender shares under penalty of
peIjury. The Fund Administrator shall review all claim submissions, evaluate each submission for

8


completeness and detennine the eligibility ofeach submitting Eligible Recipient to participate in the
Disgorgement Fund.
22.

The Fund Administrator shall notify, in writing, all parties whose claim the Fund

Administrator rejected for participation in the Disgorgement Fund. The Fund Administrator shall
advise each party in writing of the basis of the rejection of his claim. Any party who seeks
reconsideration ofthe denial must so advise the Fund Administrator within 20 days ofthe postmark
date of the initial denial ofthe claim. Following subsequent review, the Fund Administrator shall
notify such party in writing of the Fund Administrator's final decision, which shall be non­
appealable.
C.

Allocation of the Disgorgement Fund

23.

Each Eligible Recipient returning a Claim Fonn shall receive the total ofthe Eligible

Recipient's pro rata distribution of the Disgorgement Fund (after payment of the Fund
Administrator's reasonable fees and reimbursement ofthe Fund Administrator's reasonable costs and
expenses) for each non-tendered share for which such Eligible Recipient has submitted an approved
application. An Eligible Recipient shall not be eligible to receive a distribution if the pro rata
distribution for that Eligible Recipient is worth less than ten dollars [$10.00]. All payments that
would amount to less than ten dollars will be added back to the Disgorgement Fund and made
available for allocation, as appropriate, to other Eligible Recipients.
24.

Each Eligible Recipient's pro rata distribution shall be calculated as follows: The

Disgorgement Fund shall be divided by the total number ofshares ofHawaiian outstanding common

9


stock for which valid Claim Forms has been submitted, then multiplied by the number of shares for
which such Eligible Recipient has submitted a valid Claim Form.
25.

A residual within the Disgorgement Fund is established for any amounts remaining

after all assets have been disbursed. The residual may include funds reserved for future taxes and
related expenses, distributions from checks that have not been cashed, distributions from checks that
were not delivered or accepted upon delivery, and tax refunds. In consultation with Commission
staff, money that remains in the Disgorgement Fund one year after all approved Eligible Recipients
who filed claims before the Claim Deadline are paid shall be distributed to otherwise Eligible
Recipients who file claims after the Claim Deadline. Any such second distribution shall be paid at
the same pro rata distribution factor ofthe recognized loss that was used in the original distribution
and with the same $10.00 minimum payout requirement. Second distribution claims shall be paid on
a first filed, first distributed basis until funds are exhausted. Any funds remaining after a second
distribution shall be paid to the Commission for transfer to the United States Treasury after the final
accounting is approved by the Commission.
26.

After the claims process is complete, the Fund Administrator will determine the

Eligible Recipients and allocate the amounts of their payment, applying the principles set forth in
Section III of this Plan.
27.

The Fund Administrator shall notify each Eligible Recipient, in writing, regarding the

disbursement to which it is entitled and the basis for such computation. If an Eligible Recipient
disputes the amount, the Eligible Recipient must so advise the Fund Administrator in writing within
20 days of the postmark date of the notification and explain the basis for objection. Following
10


subsequent review, the Fund Administrator shall notify such Eligible Recipient in writing of the
Fund Administrator's final decision regarding the distribution amount, which shall be non­
appealable.
IV.

ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN
A.

Control of the Disgorgement Fund

28.

The assets of the Fund are subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of the

Commission. The Disgorgement Fund is currently deposited at the BPD.
29.

The Disgorgement Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund ("QSF") under

Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. §468B(g), and related regulations, 26
C.F.R. §§1.468B-l through 1.468B-5.
30.

Upon approval ofthe Plan, the Fund Administrator shall establish an Escrow Account

and an unfunded Controlled Distribution Account at Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. ("Wells Fargo"), in the
name of and bearing the Employer Identification Number ("EIN") of the QSF as custodian for the
distributees of the Distribution Plan. The name of each account shall be in the following form:
Name of QSF, [EIN], as custodian for the benefit of investors allocated a distribution from John
Adams/AlP, LLC Plan ofDistribution. The terms ofthe applicable escrow agreement shall be in a
form provided by and approved by Commission staff.
31.

Wells Fargo will hold the Disgorgement Fund assets during the check-cashing period.

Wells Fargo maintains a Bankers Blanket Bond, which includes errors and omissions coverage with
per occurrence limits of $100,000,000.00 and a single aggregate limit in the amount of
$100,000,000.00. The primary insurer is Superior Guarantee Insurance Company of Vermont, a
11


captive subsidiary ofWells Fargo and Company, which as of its most recent long term issue rating,
was rated AAA by Standard and Poor's. Wells Fargo annually assesses the adequacy oftheir policy
limits through extensive analysis of historical loss data, exposure to loss and internal company
controls. The limits of Wells Fargo are reviewed annually by the companies' Board of Directors.
Documentation has been provided to the assigned Commission staff to support the foregoing
representations.
32.

The Fund Administrator shall be the signer on the Escrow Account and the Controlled

Distribution Account, subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control ofthe Commission.
33.

Upon transfer from Treasury, the Funds will be held in the Escrow Account, separate

from Wells Fargo assets, until presentation ofa check. Presented checks will be subject to "positive
pay" controls before they are honored by Wells Fargo, at which time funds will be transferred from
the Escrow Account to the Controlled Distribution Account to pay the approved checks.
34.

The Fund Administrator shall authorize Wells Fargo to provide account information

to the Tax Administrator, including providing duplicate statements for the QSF account. The Fund
Administrator shall use the assets and earnings ofthe Disgorgement Fund to provide payments to
Eligible Recipients and to provide the Tax Administrator with assets to pay tax liabilities and tax
compliance fees and costs.
35.

The Escrow Account shall be invested in AAA- rated Money Market Mutual Funds

registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 that directly invest in short term U.S. Treasury
securities and obligations, all backed by the full faith and credit ofthe U.S. Government; provided

12


however, that the Money Market Mutual Funds' investments in short term U.S. Treasury securities
will not be made through repurchase agreement or other derivative products.

B.

Procedures for Distributing Funds

36.

In order to distribute funds, the Fund Administrator will submit a list ofpayees and

payment amounts (the "Payment List") to the assigned Commission staff, who will obtain
authorization from the Commission to disburse pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6). Unless otherwise
directed by the Commission, the Commission staffwill obtain an Order Directing Disbursement that
releases funds to the bank account established by the Fund Administrator based upon the Payment
List.
37.

All checks shall be cut by Wells Fargo. All checks will bear a stale date of 120 days

from the date ofthe check. Checks that are not negotiated within the stale date shall be voided and
Wells Fargo shall be instructed to stop payment on those checks.
38.

All payments shall be preceded or accompanied by a communication that includes, as

appropriate: (a) a statement characterizing the distribution; (b) a description ofthe tax information
reporting and other tax related matters; (c) a statement that checks will be void after 120 days; and
(d) the name of a person to contact, to be used in the event of any questions regarding the
distribution.

Any such information letter or other mailing to recipients characterizing their

distributions shall be submitted to the assigned Commission staff for review and approval.
Distribution checks, on their face, or in the accompanying mailing will clearly indicate that the
money is being distributed from an SEC Disgorgement Fund.

13


39.

The Fund Administrator is responsible for accounting for all payments and

transactions related to the Disgorgement Fund, including any distribution checks that expire
uncashed. The Fund Administrator is responsible for researching and reconciling all returned items
due to non-delivery, insufficient address, and/or any other deficiencies and shall issue new checks
where appropriate.
40.

In the event that an Eligible Recipient receives, but is not able to endorse, a

Disgorgement Fund check as written (e.g. if an individual has changed names, a couple has divorced,
or an individual is now deceased), and the Eligible Recipient or their lawful representative requests
the re-issuance ofa distribution check in a different name, the Fund Administrator will request, and
must receive, documentation to support the requested change. The Fund Administrator will review
the documentation to determine the authenticity and propriety ofthe change request. If such change
request is properly documented, the Fund Administrator will issue an appropriately redrawn check to
the requesting party.
41.

The Fund Administrator will provide customer support and communications

programs which will become active by the time the first Claim Forms are mailed. These services
will include a toll free number and a website for the public. The Commission staffretains the right
to review and approve any material posted on the website. The toll free number shall be published in
the letter of explanation that accompanies the Claim Form as described in paragraph 15.
C.

Procedures for Handling Returned Checks

42.

Checks returned as undeliverable by the USPS and for which a new address has been

provided by the USPS will be repackaged and sent to the new address. For checks returned as
14


undeliverable by the USPS and for which no new address is provided, the Fund Administrator shall
direct an address update search be undertaken by a firm that specializes in such service. Additional
efforts to identify new addresses for returned checks will be conducted as necessary and
economically reasonable after consultation with the staff of the Commission. Where new address
information becomes available, the Fund Administrator shall repackage the distribution check and
send it to the new address. Where new address information is not available after a diligent search
(and in no event later than 120 days after the initial mailing ofthe original check), the check shall be
voided and the Fund Administrator shall instruct Wells Fargo to stop payment on such check.
43.

After 120 days from the Distribution Date, Wells Fargo shall notify the Fund

Administrator of all uncashed checks and will credit the Disgorgement Fund for the amount of all
uncashed checks.

D.

Accounting

44.

Once the Disgorgement Fund has been transferred from the BPD to Wells Fargo, the

Fund Administrator will file an accounting with the Commission during the first ten days of each
calendar quarter on a standardized accounting form provided by the staff of the Commission, and
will submit a final accounting for approval by the Commission prior to termination of the
Disgorgement Fund and discharge of the Fund Administrator.

E.

Termination of the Fund

45.

Upon final distribution ofthe funds, the Fund Administrator shall make arrangements

for the final payment oftaxes and Tax Administrator fees and shall submit a final accounting to the
Commission in an SEC standard accounting format provided by the staff ofthe Commission. The
15


Disgorgement Fund shall be eligible for termination after all ofthe following have occurred: (1) the
Final Accounting by the Fund Administrator has been submitted and approved by the Commission,
(2) all taxes and fees have been paid, and (3) all remaining funds or any residual have been
transferred to the U.S. Treasury. Staff shall seek an order from the Commission to (1) approve the
Final Accounting; (2) approve sending the remaining residual amount to the U.S. Treasury after the
final tax payment has been made; and (3) authorize the Secretary ofthe Commission, upon receipt of
notice from the staff assigned to this matter that all funds have been expended, to terminate the
Disgorgement Fund and discharge the Fund Administrator.

F.

Amendments

46.

The Fund Administrator shall, as provided below, take reasonable and appropriate

steps to distribute the Disgorgement Fund according to the procedures set forth in this Plan. Where
the Fund Administrator deems necessary, after consultation with the Commission staff, the Fund
Administrator may make immaterial modifications to this procedure to effectuate the general
purposes ofthis Plan. However, ifmaterial changes are needed, the Fund Administrator will inform
the Commission staffand will obtain approval from the Commission prior to implementation ofthe
changes. This Plan may be amended upon the Motion ofthe Respondents, the Fund Administrator,
or upon the Commission's own motion.
47.

For good cause shown, the Commission's staff may extend any of the procedural

dates set forth in the Plan.

16

v.

NOTICE AND COMMENT PERIOD
48.

Notice of this Plan will be published in the SEC Docket, on the Commission's web

site [http://www.sec.gov] and on the Administrator's website [www.gilardi.com]. A copy of the
Distribution Plan may be obtained by submitting a written request to Tracy L. Davis, Esq., Assistant
Regional Director, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 44 Montgomery Street, Suite
2600, San Francisco, CA 94104. Any person or entity wishing to comment on the Plan must do so in
writing by submitting their comments within thirty days ofthe date ofthe notice (i) to the Office of
the Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington,
D.C.

20549-1090;

or

(ii)

vIa

the

Commission's

Internet

comment

form

(www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or (iii) by sending an email to rule-comments@sec.gov.
Comments submitted bye-mail or via the Commission's web site should include the Administrative
Proceeding File Number (Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11676) in the subject line. Comments received
will be publicly available. Persons should submit only information that they wish to make publicly
available.
Respectfully submitted,

Marc 1. Fagel
Tracy L. Davis
Attorneys for the Division of Enforcement
San Francisco Regional Office
44 Montgomery St., Ste. 2600
San Francisco, CA 94104
(415) 705-2500
Dated: February 20, 2009
17

