UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Release No. 59356 / February 4, 2009
Administrative Proceedings
File No. 3-12238

In the Matter of
ORDER APPROVING DISTRIBUTION
PLAN, APPOINTING A FUND
ADMINISTRATOR, AND WAIVING
BOND

BEAR, STEARNS & CO., INC. and
BEAR, STEARNS SECURITIES CORP.,
Respondents.

I.
On March 16, 2006, the Commission instituted settled administrative and cease-and­
desist proceedings against Bear, Stearns & Co., Inc. (“BS&Co.”) and Bear, Stearns Securities
Corp. (“BSSC”) (collectively, “Respondents”) for violations of the federal securities laws in
connection with late trading and deceptive market timing practices in the trading of mutual
funds. The Commission issued an Order providing for the payment of disgorgement and civil
penalties totaling $250 million.1 It further provided that a Fair Fund (the “Bear Stearns Fair
Fund”) be established and distributed pursuant to a distribution plan developed by an
Independent Distribution Consultant (“IDC”) retained by Respondents.
In May 2006, Respondents selected Francis E. McGovern, a Professor of Law at Duke
University, to serve as the Bear Stearns Fair Fund’s IDC. Since that time, the IDC has developed
a proposed distribution plan (the “Bear Stearns Plan” or the “Distribution Plan”) in consultation
with the staff and Respondents.
The Bear Stearns Fair Fund is comprised of the $250 million paid by Respondents, plus
accumulated interest, less any federal, state, or local taxes on the interest. The Distribution Plan
provides for the distribution of the Bear Stearns Fair Fund to certain mutual funds affected by the
activity described in the Order during the period from January 4, 1999, through October 29,
2003, according to a formula designed to capture the proportional dilution in such mutual funds
relative to the dilution in all such mutual funds. In some instances, where practicable and

1

See In the Matter of Bear, Stearns & Co., Inc. and Bear, Stearns Securities Corp., AP File No. 3-12238,
Exchange Act Rel. No. 53490 (March 16, 2006).

feasible, the Distribution Plan allows for the IDC to use an Independent Distribution Consultant
or Fund Administrator appointed in another Commission proceeding to distribute the monies
directly to the shareholders of such mutual funds who held their shares during the relevant
period. Persons eligible for distributions from the Fair Fund will not need to go through a claims
process.
In accordance with the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans (the
“Fair Fund Rules”), 17 C.F.R. § 201.1100, et seq., the Plan proposes a Fund Administrator and
sets forth, among other things, procedures for the distribution of proceeds to funds or
shareholders of funds; procedures for the administration of the Fund, including provisions for
filing tax returns; and a proposed timeframe for the termination of the Bear Stearns Fair Fund.
Rust Consulting, Inc., proposed in the Plan as the Fund Administrator, has not posted the
bond generally required of third parties under Fair Fund Rule 1105(c). Rather, the Plan
incorporates several layers of protection for the Bear Stearns Fair Fund. Among other things,
under the Plan: (1) the Fund Administrator will have no custody, and only limited control, of the
Bear Stearns Fair Fund; (2) the Bear Stearns Fair Fund will be held by the U.S. Treasury Bureau
of Public Debt until immediately before transmittal of checks or electronic transfers to eligible
investors; (3) upon transfer from the U.S. Treasury, funds will be held in an escrow account,
separate from the Escrow Bank’s2 assets until presentation of a check or electronic transfer, at
which time funds will be transferred to a controlled distribution account; (4) presented checks or
electronic transfers will be subject to “positive pay” controls before being honored by the Escrow
Bank; and (5) both the Escrow Bank and the Fund Administrator will maintain, throughout this
process, insurance and/or a financial institution bond that covers errors and omissions,
misfeasance and fraud.
On December 8, 2008, the Commission published the Plan and issued a Notice of
Proposed Distribution Plan and Opportunity for Comment (Exchange Act Release No. 57489)
pursuant to Fair Fund Rule 1103, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1103. The Notice advised interested parties
that they could obtain a copy of the Plan at http://www.sec.gov, or by submitting a written
request to Alison Conn, Assistant Regional Director, United States Securities and Exchange
Commission, Room 400, 3 World Financial Center, New York, NY 10281-1022. The Notice
also advised that all persons desiring to comment on the Plan could submit their comments, in
writing, no later than January 7, 2009. No comments were received by the Commission in
response to the Notice that were related to the Plan and no modification has been made to the
Plan since its publication.
The Commission has determined that the Plan will be approved. The Commission has
further determined that, for good cause shown, the bond required under Fair Fund Rule 1105(c)
will be waived.

2

The “Escrow Bank” refers to Deutsche Bank as defined in ¶ 9 and described in ¶¶ 72 and 73 of the Plan.

2


Accordingly, IT IS ORDERED that:
A. 	

Pursuant to the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. §
201.1104, the Distribution Plan is approved;

B. 	

Pursuant to the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. §
201.1105(a), Rust Consulting, Inc., is appointed as the Fund Administrator; and

C. 	

The bond requirement of Rule 1105(c) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(c), is waived for good cause shown.

For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

3


