SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR PART 202 

[Release No. 34-61340] 

Policy Statement Concerning Cooperation by Individuals in its Investigations and 

Related Enforcement Actions 

AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission. 

ACTION: Policy statement. 

SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission is issuing a policy statement 

announcing the analytical framework it uses to evaluate cooperation by individuals. 

EFFECTIVE DATE: 
January 19, 2010.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joan McKown, Chief Counsel, 

(202) 551-4933; or Jordan A. Thomas, Assistant Chief Litigation Counsel, (202) 5514475.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
The Securities and Exchange Commission is issuing a policy statement
announcing the analytical framework it uses to evaluate cooperation by individuals. This
framework serves two important purposes: it promotes the fair and effective exercise of
discretion by the Commission, and it enhances confidence on the part of the public and
cooperating individuals that decisions regarding cooperation in the Commission’s
investigations and related enforcement actions will be made in an appropriate and
consistent manner.
The provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (“APA”), 5 U.S.C. 553,
regarding notice of proposed rulemaking, opportunities for public comment, and prior
publication are not applicable to general statements of policy, such as this policy

statement. Similarly, the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601-602,
apply only when notice and comment are required by the APA or another statute and are
therefore not applicable.
LIST OF SUBJECTS IN 17 CFR PART 202
Administrative practice and procedure.
TEXT OF AMENDMENT:
For the reasons set out in the preamble, Title 17, Chapter II of the Code of Federal
Regulations is amended as follows:
PART 202—INFORMAL AND OTHER PROCEDURES
1.

The authority citation for Part 202 continues to read, in part, as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77s, 77t, 77sss, 77uuu, 78d-1, 78u, 78w, 78ll(d), 80a-37,
80a-41, 80b-9, 80b-11, 7202 and 7211 et seq., unless otherwise noted.
*****
2.

Add § 202.12 to read as follows:

§ 202.12 Policy statement concerning cooperation by individuals in its
investigations and related enforcement actions.
Cooperation by individuals and entities in the Commission’s investigations and
related enforcement actions can contribute significantly to the success of the agency’s
mission. Cooperation can enhance the Commission’s ability to detect violations of the
federal securities laws, increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the Commission’s
investigations, and provide important evidence for the Commission’s enforcement
actions. There is a wide spectrum of tools available to the Commission and its staff for
facilitating and rewarding cooperation by individuals, ranging from taking no
enforcement action to pursuing reduced charges and sanctions in connection with

2


enforcement actions. As with any cooperation program, there exists some tension
between the objectives of holding individuals fully accountable for their misconduct and
providing incentives for individuals to cooperate with law enforcement authorities. This
policy statement sets forth the analytical framework employed by the Commission and its
staff for resolving this tension in a manner that ensures that potential cooperation
arrangements maximize the Commission’s law enforcement interests. Although the
evaluation of cooperation requires a case-by-case analysis of the specific circumstances
presented, as described in greater detail below, the Commission’s general approach is to
determine whether, how much, and in what manner to credit cooperation by individuals
by evaluating four considerations: the assistance provided by the cooperating individual
in the Commission’s investigation or related enforcement actions (“Investigation”); the
importance of the underlying matter in which the individual cooperated; the societal
interest in ensuring that the cooperating individual is held accountable for his or her
misconduct; and the appropriateness of cooperation credit based upon the profile of the
cooperating individual. In the end, the goal of the Commission’s analysis is to protect the
investing public by determining whether the public interest in facilitating and rewarding
an individual’s cooperation in order to advance the Commission’s law enforcement
interests justifies the credit awarded to the individual for his or her cooperation.
(a)

Assistance provided by the individual. The Commission assesses the

assistance provided by the cooperating individual in the Investigation by considering,
among other things:
(1)

The value of the individual’s cooperation to the Investigation including,

but not limited to:

3


(i)

Whether the individual’s cooperation resulted in substantial assistance to

the Investigation;
(ii)

The timeliness of the individual’s cooperation, including whether the

individual was first to report the misconduct to the Commission or to offer his or her
cooperation in the Investigation, and whether the cooperation was provided before he or
she had any knowledge of a pending investigation or related action;
(iii)

Whether the Investigation was initiated based on information or other

cooperation provided by the individual;
(iv)

The quality of cooperation provided by the individual, including whether

the cooperation was truthful, complete, and reliable; and
(v)

The time and resources conserved as a result of the individual’s

cooperation in the Investigation.
(2)

The nature of the individual’s cooperation in the Investigation including,

but not limited to:
(i)

Whether the individual’s cooperation was voluntary or required by the

terms of an agreement with another law enforcement or regulatory organization;
(ii)

The types of assistance the individual provided to the Commission;

(iii)

Whether the individual provided non-privileged information, which

information was not requested by the staff or otherwise might not have been discovered;
(iv)

Whether the individual encouraged or authorized others to assist the staff

who might not have otherwise participated in the Investigation; and
(v)

Any unique circumstances in which the individual provided the

cooperation.

4


(b)

Importance of the underlying matter. The Commission assesses the

importance of the Investigation in which the individual cooperated by considering,
among other things:
(1)

The character of the Investigation including, but not limited to:

(i)

Whether the subject matter of the Investigation is a Commission priority;

(ii)

The type of securities violations;

(iii)

The age and duration of the misconduct;

(iv)

The number of violations; and

(v)

The isolated or repetitive nature of the violations.

(2)

The dangers to investors or others presented by the underlying violations

involved in the Investigation including, but not limited to:
(i)

The amount of harm or potential harm caused by the underlying

violations;
(ii)

The type of harm resulting from or threatened by the underlying

violations; and
(iii)

The number of individuals or entities harmed.1

(c)

Interest in holding the individual accountable. The Commission assesses

the societal interest in holding the cooperating individual fully accountable for his or her
misconduct by considering, among other things:
(1)

The severity of the individual’s misconduct assessed by the nature of the

violations and in the context of the individual’s knowledge, education, training,
experience, and position of responsibility at the time the violations occurred;
1

Cooperation in Investigations that involve priority matters or serious, ongoing, or widespread violations
will be viewed most favorably.

5


(2)

The culpability of the individual, including, but not limited to, whether the

individual acted with scienter, both generally and in relation to others who participated in
the misconduct;
(3)

The degree to which the individual tolerated illegal activity including, but

not limited to, whether he or she took steps to prevent the violations from occurring or
continuing, such as notifying the Commission or other appropriate law enforcement
agency of the misconduct or, in the case of a violation involving a business organization,
by notifying members of management not involved in the misconduct, the board of
directors or the equivalent body not involved in the misconduct, or the auditors of such
business organization of the misconduct;
(4)

The efforts undertaken by the individual to remediate the harm caused by

the violations including, but not limited to, whether he or she paid or agreed to pay
disgorgement to injured investors and other victims or assisted these victims and the
authorities in the recovery of the fruits and instrumentalities of the violations; and
(5)

The sanctions imposed on the individual by other federal or state

authorities and industry organizations for the violations involved in the Investigation.
(d)

Profile of the individual. The Commission assesses whether, how much,

and in what manner it is in the public interest to award credit for cooperation, in part,
based upon the cooperating individual’s personal and professional profile by considering,
among other things:
(1)

The individual’s history of lawfulness, including complying with

securities laws or regulations;

6


(2)

The degree to which the individual has demonstrated an acceptance of

responsibility for his or her past misconduct; and
(3)

The degree to which the individual will have an opportunity to commit

future violations of the federal securities laws in light of his or her occupation -including, but not limited to, whether he or she serves as: a licensed individual, such as
an attorney or accountant; an associated person of a regulated entity, such as a broker or
dealer; a fiduciary for other individuals or entities regarding financial matters; an officer
or director of public companies; or a member of senior management -- together with any
existing or proposed safeguards based upon the individual’s particular circumstances.
Note to § 202.12. Before the Commission evaluates an individual’s cooperation,
it analyzes the unique facts and circumstances of the case. The above principles are not
listed in order of importance nor are they intended to be all-inclusive or to require a
specific determination in any particular case. Furthermore, depending upon the facts and
circumstances of each case, some of the principles may not be applicable or may deserve
greater weight than others. Finally, neither this statement, nor the principles set forth
herein creates or recognizes any legally enforceable rights for any person.
By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary
Date: January 13, 2010

7


