SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 240
Release No. 34-63727; File No. S7-03-11
RIN 3235-AK91
TRADE ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND VERIFICATION OF SECURITY-BASED
SWAP TRANSACTIONS
AGENCY:

Securities and Exchange Commission.

ACTION:

Proposed rule.

SUMMARY: In accordance with Section 764(a) of Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Wall
Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (“Dodd-Frank Act”), the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) is proposing rule 15Fi-1 under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), 15 U.S.C. § 78a et seq., which would require
security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants to provide trade
acknowledgments and to verify those trade acknowledgments in security-based swap
transactions.
DATES: Comments should be received on or before February 22, 2011.

ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:
•	 Use the Commission’s Internet comment form

(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml); 

•	 Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-03-11
on the subject line; or

•

Use the Federal eRulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.

Paper comments:
•

Send paper comments in triplicate to Elizabeth M. Murphy, Secretary, Securities
and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File Number S7-03-11. This file number should be
included on the subject line if e-mail is used. To help us process and review your
comments more efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all
comments on the Commission’s Internet website
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments are also available for website
viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and
3:00 p.m. All comments received will be posted without change; we do not edit personal
identifying information from submissions. You should submit only information that you
wish to make available publicly.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joseph Furey, Assistant Chief
Counsel; Darren Vieira, Special Counsel; or Ignacio Sandoval, Attorney, at (202) 5515550, Office of Chief Counsel, Division of Trading and Markets, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-7010.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is proposing rule 15Fi-1
pursuant to Section 15F of the Exchange Act.1

1

15 U.S.C. 78o-8.

2


I.

Background
Section 764 of the Dodd-Frank Act,2 enacted on July 21, 2010, added Section 15F

to the Exchange Act.3 Among other things, Section 15F requires security-based swap
(“SBS”) dealers and major SBS participants (collectively, “SBS Entities”) to register with
the Commission, and directs the Commission to prescribe rules applicable to SBS
Entities.
Section 15F(i)(1) of the Exchange Act provides that SBS Entities must “conform
with such standards as may be prescribed by the Commission, by rule or regulation, that
relate to timely and accurate confirmation, processing, netting, documentation, and
valuation of all security-based swaps.” Section 15F(i)(2) of the Exchange Act provides
that the Commission must adopt rules governing documentation standards for SBS
Entities. Proposed rule 15Fi-1 would prescribe standards related to timely and accurate
confirmation and documentation of SBS, as further described below.
Market participants currently issue a “trade acknowledgment” (sometimes
referred to by industry participants as a “draft confirmation” or an “alleged trade”) to
memorialize the economic and related terms of an SBS transaction, regardless of the
means by which the transaction was executed. If an SBS transaction is not reduced to
writing, a court may have to supply contract terms upon which there was no previous
agreement. For this reason, prudent practice requires that, after coming to an agreement
on the terms of a transaction, the parties document the transaction in a complete and
definitive written record so there is legal certainty about the terms of their agreement in
case those terms are later disputed. Therefore, industry best practices incorporate a
2

Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

3

15 U.S.C. 78o-8.

3


process by which the parties verify that the trade acknowledgment accurately reflects the
terms of their trade.4 This process, through which one party acknowledges an SBS
transaction and its counterparty verifies it, is the confirmation process, which results in
the issuance of a confirmation that reflects the terms of the contract between the parties.5
This confirmation includes any transaction-specific modifications to master agreements
between the parties that might apply to the transaction, such as the International Swaps
and Derivatives Association (“ISDA”) Master Agreement and Schedule. A confirmation
is thus a written or electronic record of an SBS transaction that has been sent by one party
and verified by the other where that record has been manually, electronically, or by some
other legally equivalent means, signed by the receiving counterparty.
In the past few years, market participants and regulators have paid particular
attention to the timely confirmation of SBS transactions. The Government
Accountability Office has found that, since 2002, the trading volume of SBS such as
credit derivatives has expanded rapidly, causing stresses on the operational infrastructure
of market participants, which in turn caused the participants’ back office systems to fail
for a period of time to confirm the increased volume of trades.6 The GAO viewed the
lack of automation and the purported assignment of positions by transferring parties to
4	

See Part II.D, below, for a discussion of verification.

5	

Confirmations may also be used by SBS Entities to make certain disclosures, or to
disclaim certain obligations, to a counterparty. Required disclosures by an SBS
Entity will be addressed separately in proposed “external business conduct” rules
for SBS Entities.

6	

U.S. Government Accountability Office (“GAO”), Credit Derivatives:
Confirmation Backlogs Increased Dealers’ Operational Risks, But Were
Successfully Addressed After Joint Regulatory Action, GAO-07-716 (2007) at
pages 3-4 (“GAO Confirmation Report”). As of September 2005, the
accumulated backlog of unconfirmed over-the-counter credit derivatives trades
was 150,000.

4


third parties without notice to their counterparties as the primary factors contributing to
this backlog.7 The GAO found that if new transactions are left unconfirmed, there is no
definitive written record of the contract terms. Thus, in the event of a dispute, the terms
of the agreement must be reconstructed from other evidence, such as email trails or
recorded trader conversations. The GAO noted that this process is cumbersome and may
not be wholly accurate. Moreover, if purported transfers of SBS transactions are made
without giving notice to the remaining parties and obtaining their consent, disputes may
arise as to which parties are entitled to the benefits and subject to the burdens of the
transaction. The GAO found that these circumstances created significant legal and
operational risk for market participants.8 These risks, as well as other operational issues
associated with the over-the-counter derivatives market, have been the focus of reports
and recommendations by the President’s Working Group,9 and of ongoing efforts led by
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (“FRBNY”) to enhance operational capacity in
the over-the-counter derivatives market and improve operational performance, by
increasing automation, promoting timely confirmation of trades, and ending practices
such as the purported unilateral transferring of SBS transactions.10

7

Several factors reduced the risk of unconfirmed trades due to unilateral
assignment, including: (1) the tendency for end-users to assign contracts to
dealers who were generally more credit-worthy than the end-user; (2) dealers
refusing to release posted collateral until the dealer verified the assignment, and;
(3) a novation protocol in the ISDA Master Agreement that required
counterparties to obtain the written consent of their counterparties before
assigning a trade. Id at pages 17-18.

8

Id. at pages 12-15.

9

See, e.g., Press Release, President’s Working Group on Financial Markets,
Progress Summary on OTC Derivatives Operational Improvements (November
2008).

10

See, e.g,. FRBNY, Summary of OTC Derivatives Commitments (March 1, 2010).

5


To promote the efficient operation of the SBS market, and to facilitate market
participants’ management of their SBS-related risk, the Commission is proposing a
confirmation process in rule 15Fi-1. The proposed rule will govern the delivery of SBS
trade acknowledgments and the verification of those trade acknowledgments, as
described more fully below. In developing this proposed rule, the Commission has
consulted with other financial regulators, including the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.
The Commission understands that proposed rule 15Fi-1, as well as other
proposals that the Commission may consider in the coming months to implement the
Dodd-Frank Act, if adopted, could significantly affect — and be significantly affected by
— the nature and scope of the security-based swaps market in a number of ways. For
example, the Commission recognizes that if the measures it adopts are too onerous for
existing participants or new entrants, they could hinder the further development of a
market for SBS by unduly discouraging participation by SBS Entities. On the other hand,
if the Commission adopts rules that are too permissive, they may not adequately protect
investor interests or promote the purposes of the Exchange Act. We also are aware that
the further development of the SBS market may require the Commission to revise its
confirmation standards for SBS transactions. We urge commenters, as they review our
proposal, to consider generally the role that regulation may play in fostering or limiting
the development of the market for SBS (or the role that market developments may play in
changing the nature and implications of regulation) and specifically to focus on this issue
with respect to the proposed trade acknowledgment and verification rule for SBS Entities.

6


II.

Discussion of the Proposed Rule
Proposed Exchange Act rule 15Fi-1 would require SBS Entities to provide to their

counterparties a trade acknowledgment, to provide prompt verification of the terms
provided in a trade acknowledgment of transactions from other SBS Entities, and to
establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to
obtain prompt verification of the terms provided in a trade acknowledgment. We are
proposing to define several key terms in the rule to have the meaning that we believe is
commonly attributed to those terms by industry participants. Thus, as discussed above,
we propose to define the term “trade acknowledgment” to mean a written or electronic
record of an SBS transaction sent by one party to the other.11 As used in the proposed
rule, the term “verification” would mean the process by which a trade acknowledgment
has been manually, electronically, or by some other legally equivalent means, signed by
the receiving counterparty.12 Thus, a “confirmed” SBS transaction would mean a
transaction in which the parties have produced a trade acknowledgment that is agreed to
by both parties and that has been verified.13
Proposed rule 15Fi-1 would require certain SBS Entities that purchase or sell any
SBS to provide an electronic trade acknowledgment to the applicable counterparty
containing certain required information – discussed in Part II.C, below – within the
prescribed timeframe. By requiring counterparties to provide trade acknowledgments of
and to verify SBS transactions in a timely way, proposed rule 15Fi-1 is intended to
promote the principles of Exchange Act Section 15F(i)(1).
11

See proposed Rule 15Fi-1(a)(10).

12

See proposed Rule 15Fi-1(a)(13).

13

See proposed Rule 15Fi-1(a)(4).

7


Request for Comment
The Commission requests comment on all aspects of the proposed definitions of
trade acknowledgment, verification and confirmation.
A. 	

Trade Acknowledgment Requirement
1. Events Triggering the Trade Acknowledgment Obligation

Proposed rule 15Fi-1(b) would require an SBS Entity that purchases or sells any
security-based swap to provide a trade acknowledgment to its counterparty. The terms
“purchase” and “sale” are defined in Section 3(a) of the Exchange Act.14 As amended by
the Dodd-Frank Act, those definitions as applied to SBS transactions include any
“execution, termination (prior to its scheduled maturity date), assignment, exchange, or
similar transfer or conveyance of, or extinguishing of rights or obligations under, a
security-based swap.”15 Because the rule would apply solely to an SBS Entity that
“purchases” or “sells” an SBS, the proposed rule would be effectively limited to
“principal transactions” in which the SBS Entity is a counterparty to the transaction and
is acting for its own account.
Request for Comment
The Commission requests comment on all aspects of the proposal as to the events
that would trigger an obligation to provide a trade acknowledgment.
1.	 Are there circumstances, other than purchases or sales of SBS, when SBS
Entities should be required to provide SBS trade acknowledgments to their
counterparties?
14	

15 U.S.C. 78c(a)

15	

Dodd-Frank Act Sections 761(a)(3) and (4), amending Exchange Act Sections
3(a)(13) and (14), respectively; 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(13) and (14).

8


2.	 What are the current market practices with respect to confirming SBS
transactions?
3.	 How would current industry practices for confirming transactions be affected
by the proposed rule?
4.	 How should policies and procedures to verify trade acknowledgments differ
from current market practices, if at all?
5.	 What are the advantages or disadvantages of the proposed rule compared to
current market practices? What additional costs would these differences
entail?
6.	 Do participants currently have operations and/or departments in place to
comply with the proposed requirements?
7.	 Do the benefits of promptly providing a trade acknowledgment justify the
additional costs, and, if not, why not?
8.	 Many, if not most, types of securities transactions are complete upon
settlement of the trade (usually shortly following execution), and the
purchaser and seller have no continuing obligations to one another. In
contrast, parties to SBS transactions have ongoing obligations to each other
that could continue for years, depending on the term of the SBS transaction.
The Commission has proposed to require parties to SBS transactions to report
to an SBS data repository certain life-cycle events, some of which are
included in the definition of purchase and sale and some of which, like
corporate actions (e.g., mergers, dividends, stock splits, or bankruptcy), are

9


not. 16 The Commission understands that some parties may agree to
notification upon life-cycle events, and that certain vendors track some of this
information with regard to securities underlying certain credit default swaps.
The Commission also notes that exchanges and other industry utilities
currently publish similar information (e.g., ex-dividend dates, bankruptcies)
with respect to the cash and derivatives markets. Should the Commission also
require delivery of a trade acknowledgment and verification of any types of
corporate actions? To what extent is it the industry custom currently to
require notification to be provided about changes or life-cycle events in the
security, loan, or narrow-based index that underlies an SBS? Should the
proposed rule require trade acknowledgments for these changes or events?
9.	 Should the proposed rule require different procedures for terminations than for
other purchases and sales? What are the current practices with respect to
sending notices of termination? What information should be provided in an
acknowledgment of a termination?
2.	 Who Provides the Trade Acknowledgment
The Commission proposes using Section 13A(a)(3) of the Exchange Act as a
model to determine which counterparty is responsible for providing the trade
acknowledgment in the transaction. Section 13A(a)(1) provides that each SBS that is not
accepted for clearing by a clearing agency or derivatives clearing organization must be

16

See Regulation SBSR - Reporting and Dissemination of Security-Based Swap
Information, Exchange Act Release No. 63346 (Nov. 19, 2010), 75 FR 75207
(Dec. 2, 2010) (“SBSR Proposing Release”).

10 


reported to a swap data repository or to the Commission.17 Section 13A(a)(3) specifies
which party is obligated to make such reports – an SBS dealer, a major SBS participant,
or a counterparty to the transaction – and it does not require both parties to report the
same transaction.18 Generally, Section 13A(a)(3) places the reporting burden on the party
that is expected to transact in SBS more frequently. Similarly, the Commission proposes
requiring only a single trade acknowledgment in any transaction, and requiring that, in a
transaction to which an SBS Entity is a party, the party responsible for providing the
trade acknowledgment would be determined in the same manner as the party responsible
for reporting the transaction to an SBS data repository or to the Commission. Therefore,
in a transaction where only one counterparty is an SBS dealer or major SBS participant,
the SBS dealer or major SBS participant would be responsible for providing the trade
acknowledgment. In a transaction between an SBS dealer and a major SBS participant,
the SBS dealer would be responsible for providing the trade acknowledgment. In a
transaction where both parties are SBS dealers, or both parties are major SBS
participants, the counterparties would be responsible for selecting which party must
provide the trade acknowledgment.19
17	

15 U.S.C. 78m-1(a)(1).

18	

15 U.S.C. 78m-1(a)(3).

19	

The Commission considered requiring all SBS Entities to provide SBS trade
acknowledgments in each transaction to which they are a party, but preliminarily
has determined not to propose this approach. Under that approach, in a situation
where only one party is an SBS Entity, that party would provide the trade
acknowledgment to its counterparty. In effect, this is similar to how brokerdealers are required to provide confirmations to their customers under Exchange
Act rule 10b-10. However, the customers are under no obligation pursuant to rule
10b-10 to confirm their transactions with broker-dealers. In situations where both
parties were SBS Entities, each party would cross-acknowledge the transaction by
providing a duplicate trade acknowledgment to the other party. However,
requiring cross-acknowledgment could be needlessly burdensome and may
11 


Although the responsible counterparty would have the obligation to provide the
trade acknowledgment, that counterparty could use a third-party to fulfill this obligation.
The Commission expects that many transactions will be confirmed by “matching
services” provided through a clearing agency.20 We use matching service in this release
to refer only to services through which two parties enter a new transaction.
A clearing agency is providing matching services if it captures trade information
regarding a securities transaction, performs an independent comparison of that
information, and issues a confirmation21 of the transaction. The Commission believes
that the use of clearing agencies’ matching services would promote the principles of
Exchange Act Section 15F(i), and the Commission wishes to encourage SBS Entities to
use these matching services. Accordingly, paragraph (b)(2) of the proposed rule would
provide that an SBS Entity will have satisfied its requirement to provide a trade

interfere with more efficient means of acknowledging transactions. Additionally,
legal uncertainty could result if for some reason the trade acknowledgments did
not match and neither party noticed or challenged the discrepancy.
20	

Under the proposed rule, the term “clearing agency” would mean a clearing
agency registered pursuant to section 17A of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78q-1.
See proposed Rule 15Fi-1(a)(3). A clearing agency that captures trade
information regarding a securities transaction and performs an independent
comparison of that information which results in the issuance of legally binding
matched terms to the transaction is providing matching services. See, also,
Exchange Act Release No. 39829 (April 6, 1998), 63 FR 17943 (April 13, 1998)
(File No. S7-10-98) (“A vendor that provides a matching service will actively
compare trade and allocation information and will issue the affirmed confirmation
that will be used in settling the transaction.”).

21	

“Confirmation” means a trade acknowledgment that has been subject to
verification. See proposed Rule 15Fi-1(a)(4).

12 


acknowledgment if a clearing agency, through its facilities, produces a confirmation of
the SBS transaction.22
A clearing agency may also serve as a central clearing counterparty (“CCP”) in
SBS transactions. In a CCP arrangement, if the original counterparties to a bilateral SBS
transaction are clearing members, they novate their bilateral trade to the clearing agency
(acting as a CCP). In such a novation to a CCP, each counterparty terminates its contract
with the other and enters into a new contract on identical terms with the CCP. In this
way, the CCP becomes buyer to one counterparty and seller to the other.23 The novation
would constitute a purchase from or a sale to the clearing agency. While the purchase or
sale would require a trade acknowledgment under paragraph (b)(1) of the proposed rule,
paragraph (b)(2) of the proposed rule would permit the CCP to satisfy the SBS Entity’s
obligation to provide a trade acknowledgment to its counterparty, both for the initial
bilateral transaction between an SBS Entity and its counterparty that are clearing
members, and for the subsequent purchases or sales that result from the novation to the
CCP.

22	

In the course of clearing and settling SBS transactions, clearing agencies would
need much or all of the information that is required on a trade acknowledgment,
and therefore, the clearing agency would have in place systems to receive and
process the information on a trade acknowledgment. The Commission notes that
clearing agencies must: register with the Commission and submit their rules for
review and approval by the Commission; meet minimum standards of care; have
the capacity to enforce their rules and discipline their participants; and have chief
compliance officers to oversee compliance with their statutory and regulatory
obligations. The Commission believes that clearing agencies are thus equipped to
manage the operations necessary to provide trade acknowledgments in the course
of their work clearing and settling SBS transactions.

23	

See Exchange Act Release No. 59527 (Mar. 6, 2009).

13 


Request for Comment
The Commission solicits comment on all aspects of the allocation of
responsibility between the parties for providing the trade acknowledgment.
10. Does the proposed rule appropriately allocate the responsibility to provide a
trade acknowledgment?
11. Would permitting the parties to agree which party would provide a trade
acknowledgment in all transactions, instead of only in transactions between
two SBS dealers or two major SBS participants, be preferable?
12. Should the rule require each SBS Entity that is a party to an SBS transaction
to provide a trade acknowledgment to its counterparty?
13. Should the rule allow persons other than clearing agencies, such as SBS
execution facilities, to provide trade acknowledgments on behalf of SBS
Entities?
14. Does the description of the use of matching services, above, accurately
describe current market practice, including market practice in such forums as
the inter-dealer market? If not, what current practices are not encompassed by
the description?
15. Should clearing agencies be permitted to provide trade acknowledgments on
behalf of SBS Entities in transactions where the clearing agency was not
responsible for clearing the transaction through a matching process? If so,
under what conditions?

14 


B. 	

Time to Provide a Trade Acknowledgment

The Commission believes that confirming SBS transactions shortly after
execution should help to promote the stability of the SBS market by preventing
documentation backlogs from creating uncertainty over SBS Entities’ exposure to SBS. 24
There will be a lag between the time when an SBS is executed (i.e., the point at which
both parties become irrevocably bound to a transaction under applicable law),25 and when
the transaction is confirmed (i.e., when a trade acknowledgment of the transaction is
provided and verified). Requiring prompt provision of trade acknowledgments of
electronically executed or processed SBS transactions should help SBS Entities to submit
timely and accurate reports with respect to those transactions to SBS data repositories.
However, the Commission believes that the goal of promptly providing trade
acknowledgments must be tempered by the difficulty of achieving that goal, particularly
for customized agreements that are not executed or processed26 electronically.

24	

The term “execution” would mean the point at which the parties become
irrevocably bound to a transaction under applicable law. See proposed Rule 15Fi1(a)(6).

25	

In the SBS context, an oral agreement over the telephone will create an
enforceable contract, and the time of execution will be when the parties to the
telephone call agree to the material terms.

26	

The term “processed electronically,” with respect to an SBS transaction, would
mean entered into a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
participant’s computerized processing systems after execution to facilitate
clearance and settlement. See proposed Rule 15FI-1(a)(9). A clearing agency
may process electronically its members’ SBS transactions, as discussed further
below.

15 


Promptly providing a trade acknowledgment would assure that the parties know
the terms of their executed agreement.27 Accordingly, the Commission proposes that the
maximum times for providing a trade acknowledgment of SBS transactions would vary
depending upon whether transactions are electronically executed or electronically
processed, but would not exceed 24 hours following execution. The Commission
preliminarily believes that the prescribed times should be sufficient for SBS Entities to
provide trade acknowledgments without permitting unnecessary delay. Specifically,
proposed rule 15Fi-1(c)(1) would require any SBS transaction to be confirmed promptly,
but in any event:
•	 For any transaction that has been executed and processed electronically, a
trade acknowledgment must be provided within 15 minutes of execution.
•	 For any transaction that is not electronically executed, but that will be
processed electronically, a trade acknowledgment must be provided within 30
minutes of execution.
•	 For any transaction that the SBS Entity cannot process electronically, a trade
acknowledgment must be provided within 24 hours following execution.
The Commission encourages SBS Entities to minimize the number of manual
transactions processed, and to process electronically all SBS transactions if it is
reasonably practicable to do so. However, the Commission understands that an SBS
Entity may have the ability to process electronically only certain SBS transactions. For
example, an SBS Entity may have the ability to process electronically certain

27

Promptly acknowledging a transaction would also enable parties to comply with
the required time within which data must be reported to an SBS data repository.
See SBSR Proposing Release, note 16 supra.

16 


standardized SBS transactions in certain asset classes, or transactions that it executes on
an exchange or SBS execution facility, but may lack the ability to process electronically
SBS transactions in other asset classes or that are executed by other means.28 The
Commission also understands that an SBS Entity’s ability to process a transaction
electronically may be limited by its counterparty’s abilities. For example, an SBS Entity
may have the ability to clear an SBS transaction through a matching facility, but if its
counterparty lacks access to the matching facility, it would need to process transactions
with that counterparty through non-computerized means.
Thus, proposed rule 15Fi-1(c)(2) would require an SBS Entity to process
electronically an SBS transaction if the SBS Entity has the ability to do so. In other
words, an SBS Entity could not delay providing a trade acknowledgment by choosing to
process a transaction by non-electronic means. The Commission preliminarily believes
that requiring SBS Entities to acknowledge trades as promptly as they are able to do so
would promote the purposes of Exchange Act Section 15Fi-1.
Request for Comment
The Commission solicits comment on all aspects of the proposed time to provide
a trade acknowledgment, and the requirement for SBS Entities to process electronically
all transactions for which they have the ability.
16. What is the current industry practice with respect to the time necessary to
confirm trades, and does the operational infrastructure of SBS Entities makes

28

Transactions in non-standardized SBS that are individually negotiated and contain
unique terms, or transactions effected telephonically and processed manually
might fall into this category.

17 


providing a trade acknowledgment within 24 hours of execution for manual
trades feasible?
17. Should the proposed rule require an SBS Entity to provide a trade
acknowledgment more quickly, particularly for transactions that are executed
or processed electronically?
18. Would the proposed rule provide sufficient time for SBS Entities to provide
trade acknowledgments to their counterparties?
19. Is there currently a backlog in confirming trades, and if so, would the
proposed rule encourage confirming trades and reduce the backlog? Are there
other procedures that would reduce any backlog of unconfirmed trades?
20. Are there circumstances in which certain terms included on a trade
acknowledgment would not be agreed by the parties within 24 hours of
execution? If so, please explain why parties may not be able to agree on such
terms within 24 hours of the execution of the SBS transaction. How should an
inability to obtain agreement on such contract terms within 24 hours of
execution, when it happens, be handled?
21. How should the proposed rule address terms required to be on the trade
acknowledgment that are not known on the date of execution?
22. How should the proposed rule address transactions between an SBS Entity
and a fund manager or other agent, where the allocation of the trade to the
fund manager’s or agent’s accounts is not determined by the fund manager or
agent until sometime after execution? Should a delay in providing a trade

18 


acknowledgment be permitted under these circumstances? If so, how long a
delay should be permitted?
23. Should the proposed rule require SBS Entities that have the ability to process
transactions electronically do so in all situations? Are there circumstances
when an SBS Entity would have the ability to process a transaction
electronically but should not be required to do so?
24. How often do trade acknowledgments contain inaccurate information and
what are the most common errors? What procedures are currently in place to
correct those errors?
C.

Form and Content of Trade Acknowledgments

Paragraph (d) of proposed rule 15Fi-1 would require the trade acknowledgments
to be provided through any electronic means that provide reasonable assurance of
delivery and a record of transmittal. The Commission believes that electronic delivery of
SBS trade acknowledgments would promote the timely provision of trade
acknowledgments, in accordance with Exchange Act Section 15F(i) of the Exchange Act.
The proposed rule would provide flexibility for SBS Entities to determine the specific
electronic means by which they will comply.
The Commission anticipates that clearing agencies may be instrumental in
delivering trade acknowledgments and verifying SBS transactions for their members, but
that the roles played by individual clearing agencies may vary. For example, as discussed
in Part II.A above, clearing agencies may provide matching services in which they
perform independent comparisons of each security-based swap transaction participant’s
trade data regarding the terms of settlement of the transaction that result in the issuance

19 


of legally binding matched terms to the transactions. Paragraph (b)(2) of the proposed
rule would permit clearing agencies to provide trade acknowledgments on behalf of SBS
Entities; however, SBS Entities would not be limited to using clearing agencies to
provide trade acknowledgments electronically. SBS Entities may also provide trade
acknowledgments through a mutually agreed upon electronic standard, such as a
messaging system that uses Financial products Markup Language (commonly known as
FpML). SBS Entities may also continue to rely on facsimile transmission or email to
provide trade acknowledgments. The Commission understands these means of providing
trade acknowledgments may be particularly necessary when engaging in SBS
transactions with counterparties that rarely buy or sell SBS and that consequently do not
have the means to receive trade acknowledgments otherwise.
Providing trade acknowledgments exclusively by mail or overnight courier would
not satisfy the requirements of the proposed rule. These delayed means of
communication do not appear to promote the principles of Exchange Act Section 15F(i).
Moreover, as discussed in Part II.E below, an SBS Entity must establish, maintain, and
enforce policies and procedures to obtain prompt verification of the terms included in
each trade acknowledgment it provides. This requirement does not appear compatible
with processes to provide trade acknowledgments that rely on delayed means of
communication.
Paragraph (d) of proposed rule 15Fi-1 would require trade acknowledgments to
contain a minimum of 22 items of information, all but one of which is identical to the
items that SBS Entities would be required to report to an SBS data repository pursuant to

20 


the rules the Commission has separately proposed in Regulation SBSR.29 We proposed
to require the information in Regulation SBSR, in part, to facilitate regulatory oversight
and monitoring of the SBS market by providing comprehensive information regarding
SBS transactions and trading activity.30 The Commission believes that counterparties to
an SBS transaction would benefit from receiving a trade acknowledgment that is
similarly comprehensive. In addition, by requiring essentially the same information to be
included on a trade acknowledgment as is reported to an SBS data repository, the
proposed rule should allow SBS Entities to use systems and databases designed to
comply with Regulation SBSR to also comply with rule 15Fi-1 under the Exchange Act,
which would reduce the burden of complying with proposed rule 15Fi-1.
The specific items that SBS Entities would provide in a trade acknowledgment
under the proposed rule include: (1) the asset class31 of the security-based swap and, if
the security-based swap is an equity derivative, whether it is a total return swap or is
otherwise designed to offer risks and returns proportional to a position in the equity
security or securities on which the security-based swap is based; (2) information that
identifies the security-based swap instrument and the specific asset(s) or issuer of a
security on which the security-based swap is based; (3) the notional amount(s), and the
currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s) is expressed; (4) the date and time, to the
second, of execution, expressed using Coordinated Universal Time (UTC); (5) the

29

See SBSR Proposing Release, note 16 supra.

30

Id.

31

The term “asset class” means those security-based swaps in a particular broad
category, including, but not limited to, credit derivatives, equity derivatives, and
loan-based derivatives. See proposed Rule 15Fi-1(a)(1).

21 


effective date; (6) the scheduled termination date; (7) the price;32 (8) the terms of any
fixed or floating rate payments, and the frequency of any payments; (9) whether the
security-based swap will be cleared by a clearing agency; (10) if both counterparties to a
security-based swap are security-based swap dealers, an indication to that effect; (11) if
the transaction involved an existing security-based swap, an indication that the
transaction did not involve an opportunity to negotiate a material term of the contract,
other than the counterparty; (12) if the security-based swap is customized to the extent
that the information provided in items (1) through (11) does not provide all of the
material information necessary to identify such customized security-based swap or does
not contain the data elements necessary to calculate the price, an indication to that effect;
(13) the participant ID of each counterparty; (14) as applicable, the broker ID, desk ID,
and trader ID of the reporting party;33 (15) the amount(s) and currenc(ies) of any up-front

32	

The term “price” means the price of a security-based swap transaction, expressed
in terms of the commercial conventions used in that asset class. See proposed
Rule 15Fi-1(a)(8).

33	

Proposed Rule 15Fi-1(a) includes definitions for “unique identification code,”
“broker ID,” “desk ID,” “participant ID,” and “trader ID.” Proposed Rule 15Fi1(a)(12) defines “unique identification code” or “UIC” as the unique
identification code assigned to a person, unit of a person, or product by or on
behalf of an internationally recognized standards-setting body that imposes fees
and usage restrictions that are fair and reasonable and not unreasonably
discriminatory. If no standards-setting body meets these criteria, a registered
security-based swap data repository shall assign all necessary UICs using its own
methodology. If a standards-setting body meets these criteria but has not assigned
a UIC to a particular person, unit of a person, or product, a registered securitybased swap data repository shall assign a UIC to that person, unit of a person, or
product using its own methodology. “Broker ID” is a UIC assigned to a person
acting as a broker for a participant. Proposed Rule 15Fi-(1)(a)(2). “Desk ID” is a
UIC assigned to the trading desk of a participant or of a broker of a participant.
Proposed Rule 15Fi-1(a)(5). “Participant ID” is a UIC assigned to a participant.
Proposed Rule 15Fi-1(a)(7). “Trader ID” is a UIC assigned to a natural person
who executes security-based swaps. Proposed Rule 15Fi-1(a)(11). The
definitions of UIC, broker ID, desk ID, participant ID, and trader ID are identical
22 


payment(s) and a description of the terms and contingencies of the payment streams of
each counterparty to the other; (16) the title of any master agreement, or any other
agreement governing the transaction (including the title of any document governing the
satisfaction of margin obligations), incorporated by reference and the date of any such
agreement; (17) the data elements necessary for a person to determine the market value of
the transaction; (18) if the security-based swap will be cleared, the name of the clearing
agency; (19) if the security-based swap is not cleared, whether the exception in Section
3C(g) of the Exchange Act was invoked;34 (20) if the security-based swap is not cleared,
a description of the settlement terms, including whether the security-based swap is cashsettled or physically settled, and the method for determining the settlement value; (21) the
venue where the security-based swap was executed; and (22) if the transaction is to be
cleared, any additional information that is required for the transaction to be cleared by a
clearing agency.
The first 21 items are identical to the items that would be reported to an SBS data
repository under proposed Regulation SBSR. In addition, if a transaction is to be cleared,
proposed rule 15Fi-1(d)(22) would require SBS Entities to include on a trade
acknowledgment any additional information that a clearing agency requires to clear the
transaction. The Commission has oversight authority over clearing agencies, including

to the definitions of the same terms the Commission has proposed in Regulation
SBSR, and parties would use the same IDs for purposes of both rules. See SBSR
Proposing Release, note 16 supra.
34

Section 3C(g) of the Exchange Act provides certain exceptions from the general
requirement of Section 3C(a)(1) of the Exchange Act that an SBS be submitted to
a registered clearing agency or a clearing agency that is exempt from registration.

23

the ability to approve or disapprove all proposed rules and rule changes.35 These
proposed rules and rule changes are also published for public notice and comment. The
Commission preliminarily believes that additional information that is significant to a
clearing agency would also be significant to a counterparty, and thus should be included
in the trade acknowledgment. An SBS Entity that is a clearing agency participant would
be required to comply with (and therefore to know) the clearing agency’s requirements
because it is obligated to comply with the clearing agency’s rules. If a clearing agency
participant acting on behalf of an SBS Entity submits a transaction to a clearing agency,
the participant would have to obtain the necessary information from the SBS Entity.
Request for Comment
The Commission requests comment on all aspects of the proposal as to the form
and content of the trade acknowledgment.
25. Is it feasible to require trade acknowledgments to be provided electronically?
26. Would the requirement for electronic trade acknowledgment unduly restrict
the types of SBS transactions that SBS Entities may enter into or the persons
that may be their counterparties?
27. Would permitting non-electronic means of providing trade acknowledgments
further the Commission’s objective to promote the timely and accurate
confirmation, processing, netting, documentation, and valuation of all SBS?
28. What systems are used to provide confirmations today?
29. Should the proposed rule require SBS Entities to use other systems, such as
electronic messaging systems that rely on machine readable structured data
35

See Exchange Act Section 19(b). Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act defines
“self-regulatory organization” to include a registered clearing agency.

24 


(and therefore lend themselves to automated trade processing) or some other
process, to provide trade acknowledgments? If so, please describe those
systems.
30. Should we consider any enhancements to current market practices?
31. Would permitting trade acknowledgments to be provided by facsimile or
email create problems or raise issues, and would the benefits of permitting
acknowledgments to be provided by facsimile or email outweigh those
problems or issues?
32. Would the requirement for trade acknowledgments to be provided through
electronic means that provide reasonable assurance of delivery and a record of
transmittal create difficulties for participants, for example, because some
counterparties are unable to receive trade acknowledgments electronically, or
because electronic trade acknowledgment is not feasible for transactions in
certain asset classes?
33. Can the Commission’s objective to promote the timely provision of trade
acknowledgments be achieved if SBS Entities provide trade acknowledgments
by non-electronic means, such as mail or overnight courier, and if so, how?
34. Should the proposed rule allow clearing agencies to use methods other than
confirmation by matching or comparison to provide trade acknowledgments
on behalf of SBS Entities?
35. Is there additional information that the proposed rule should require to be
included on a trade acknowledgment?
36. Does the proposed rule require any information that is unnecessary?

25 


37. The Commission has proposed that the trade acknowledgment contain a
minimum of 22 items of information. In light of the purpose of the rule,
should the Commission simply require instead that the trade acknowledgment
must evidence the entire agreement of the parties? For example, the
Commission could require a trade acknowledgment to include: (a) “all of the
terms an SBS transaction”; (b) “all of the material terms of an SBS
transaction”; (c) “all terms that the parties have agreed to at the time of
execution”; (d) “all terms that are necessary for the parties to have a complete
and definitive agreement”; or (e) “all the terms necessary to fully and
completely describe the transaction.” Which of these alternatives is best, and
why? Would it be clear how to comply with any or all of these possible
alternatives? If not, why not? Would certain terms used in these alternative
requirements require further definition, such as “complete and definitive,” or
“fully and completely”? If so, what terms would require further definition,
and how should they be defined? Would the alternative requirements
encompass transaction terms that would otherwise not be included on a trade
acknowledgment as required by the proposed rule and the enumerated items
specified therein? If so, what additional transaction terms would be required?
What would be the costs and benefits or disadvantages of such a principlesbased requirement?
38. Please propose any alternative standards to those described in question 38 the
Commission should consider, discuss what additional information would be

26 


required under your alternatives, and the costs and benefits and the advantages
and disadvantages of your proposed standards.
39. Should the Commission require markup/markdown disclosure or expected
profitability/loss on a trade acknowledgment? If so, why, and if not, why not?
How should SBS Entities calculate markup/markdown or expected
profitability/loss? What would be the best evidence of the prevailing market
price for a SBS transaction from which a markup or markdown could be
calculated? Should the prevailing market price be based on a dealer’s
contemporaneous cost, its cost to hedge the transaction, or a dealer’s sale to
another SBS dealer or major SBS participant? Should there be any distinction
between inter-dealer transactions and transactions between a dealer and a nondealer? Are SBS dealers and/or major SBS participants acting as market
makers?
40. The Commission understands that some SBS agreements may receive credit
support from a guarantor or other credit support provider who agrees to satisfy
a party’s payment or margin obligations in the event of default. Should the
trade acknowledgment include the legal name of or other information about
the guarantor or credit support provider?
41. How does price differ, if at all, from market value?
42. Should the Commission require that a trade acknowledgment include in all
cases the material information necessary to identify the SBS or the data
elements necessary to calculate its price (rather than the proposal in paragraph
(d)(12))?

27 


43. Should the Commission require that a trade acknowledgment include in all
cases the material information necessary to determine required upfront
payments and any future cash flows (rather the proposal in paragraph
(d)(12))?
44. Do parties typically provide the material information necessary to identify the
SBS or the data elements necessary to calculate its price in a trade
acknowledgment or confirmation? Are there any SBS transactions, such as
highly customized SBS transactions, for which it would be difficult to provide
this information? If so, please describe these transactions and the information
that parties would be challenged to provide.
45. Section 3C(g)(1) of the Exchange Act provides an exception for certain
counterparties from the mandatory clearing requirement in Exchange Act
Section 3C(a)(1). In order to qualify for the exception, counterparties would
need to comply with the Commission’s rules and regulations, which may
require that counterparties provide additional information to the Commission,
such as how a counterparty invoking the clearing exception generally expects
to meet its financial obligations associated with an SBS or the title of any
agreements in place between the SBS Entity and the counterparty that would
support such counterparty’s financial obligations. Should the trade
acknowledgment include such additional information that a counterparty may
need to provide to the Commission? Should the trade acknowledgment
include such additional information that a counterparty may need to provide to

28 


the Commission to support that it is not a financial entity and is using the SBS
to hedge or mitigate commercial risk?
46. The Commission also considered proposing a requirement that parties use
master confirmation agreements for complex products when such agreements
are in widespread use.36 If the parties have entered into a master confirmation
agreement, the transaction-specific confirmations may be less detailed
because the confirmation would not repeat the standard terms included in the
master confirmation agreement. The Commission believes that the use of
master confirmation agreements reduces transaction costs, improves liquidity,
and speeds back-office processing in the markets in which they are adopted,
and therefore encourages their use. However, the Commission believes that it
would be difficult for SBS Entities to determine whether a master
confirmation agreement is “in widespread use” and therefore required to be
used. The Commission solicits comment on whether to require the use of
master confirmation agreements in markets in which they are widespread, and
how the Commission and SBS Entities could determine whether master
confirmation agreements are in widespread use.
D.

Trade Verification

As part of the trade verification process, paragraph (e)(1) of proposed rule 15Fi-1
would require an SBS Entity to establish, maintain, and enforce reasonable written

36

Master confirmation agreements are agreements that incorporate by reference
standardized agreements (such as the 1992 or 2002 ISDA Master Agreement) that
allow parties to agree on most standard terms to be incorporated by reference into
a complex trade and then execute individual transactions by agreeing on a small
subset of economic terms.

29 


policies and procedures to obtain the prompt verification of trade acknowledgments. The
Commission preliminarily believes this requirement will induce SBS Entities to minimize
the number of unverified trade acknowledgments, and thereby reduce the operational risk
and uncertainty associated with unverified SBS transactions.
Verifying a transaction would require the SBS Entity responsible for providing
the trade acknowledgment to obtain manually, electronically, or by some other legally
equivalent means, the signature of its counterparty on the trade acknowledgment.37
Verifying trades may be done through a process in which the counterparty affirms the
transaction terms after reviewing a trade acknowledgment sent by the first party. The
counterparty may also dispute the terms of the transaction (often referred to as a “DK” of
the transaction, short for “don’t know”). Verifying or disputing the transaction may be
done by fax or electronically, where the first party transmits a trade acknowledgment to
its counterparty, after which the counterparty – electronically, manually, or by some other
legally equivalent method – either signs and returns the trade acknowledgment to verify
the transaction, or notifies the counterparty that it rejects the terms. By promoting
prompt verification, the proposed rule is designed to minimize the operational risk and
uncertainty associated with SBS transactions for which trade acknowledgments have not
been verified.
Pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of the rule, cleared transactions would be verified in
accordance with the process prescribed by the registered clearing agency through which
the transaction will be cleared. The Commission expects that clearing agencies will
adopt rules to obtain the signature of a counterparty on a trade acknowledgment as part of

37

See Proposed Rule 15Fi-1(a)(13).

30 


their verification procedures. In electronically processed transactions, the clearing
agency could obtain counterparties’ signatures electronically or by other means. As
noted above, the Commission has authority over registered clearing agencies, including
the authority to review and approve or disapprove all proposed rules and rule changes.38
The Commission would, therefore, be able to review any proposed rules and rule changes
concerning verification of trade acknowledgments to determine whether the rules or rule
changes are consistent with the purposes of proposed rule 15Fi-1.
For SBS transactions that are not subject to clearing, paragraph (e)(1) of the
proposed rule would require SBS Entities to establish their own trade verification
processes. For example, an SBS Entity could establish, maintain, and enforce policies
and procedures under which it will only deal with a counterparty that agrees to timely
review any trade acknowledgment to ensure that it accurately describes their agreed upon
transaction, and sign and return the trade acknowledgment as evidence of the verification.
SBS Entities’ policies and procedures for verification could also include using a thirdparty matching service.39
Paragraph (e)(2) of the proposed rule would provide that, in any SBS transaction
to be cleared through a clearing agency, an SBS Entity’s compliance with the
verification process prescribed by the clearing agency satisfies the verification
requirements of subparagraph (e)(1) with respect to the transaction. Therefore, an SBS
38

See Exchange Act Sec. 19(b).

39

As described in Part A.2. above, each counterparty could submit the SBS terms to
an agreed-upon matching service operated by a registered clearing agency. The
matching service would then compare the submitted transaction terms. If the
submitted SBS terms agreed, the transaction would be verified; otherwise, the
matching service would notify the counterparties of the discrepancies, and the
counterparties would have the opportunity to resolve them.

31 


Entity would not need to separately verify a transaction with another SBS Entity cleared
through a clearing agency. Additionally, an SBS Entity would not be required to have
separate written policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to obtain prompt
verification of the terms of a trade acknowledgment if the SBS Entity enters a cleared
transaction with a non-SBS Entity, and the SBS Entity complies with the clearing
agency’s verification process.
Paragraph (e)(3) of the proposed rule would require SBS Entities to promptly
verify the accuracy of, or dispute with their counterparties, the terms of trade
acknowledgments they receive pursuant to the proposed rule. This requirement is
intended to reduce the incidence of unverified SBS transactions, thereby reducing the
operational risk for SBS Entities.
Request for Comment
The Commission solicits comment on all aspects of the proposed requirement that
SBS Entities verify trade acknowledgments they receive, and establish, maintain, and
enforce written policies and procedures to obtain the prompt verification of the terms of
executed SBS transactions.
47. Should the proposed rule set time limits within which trade acknowledgments
must be verified by SBS Entities? For example, should the proposed rule
require SBS Entities to verify or dispute a trade acknowledgment within 24 or
48 hours of provision of the trade acknowledgment? Should SBS Entities be
required to verify or dispute a trade acknowledgment more quickly for SBS
transactions that are executed electronically or processed electronically than
for other transactions?

32 


48. What additional steps could the Commission take to promote verification of
SBS transactions?
49. Should the Commission give more guidance in the types of policies and
procedures it expects SBS Entities to adopt that would be “reasonably
designed to obtain prompt verification of the terms of a trade
acknowledgment”?
50. Are there other ways in which SBS participants currently evidence their
agreement to an SBS transaction besides manual or electronic signature of a
trade acknowledgment that we should consider?
51. The proposed rule requires that parties obtain “verification” of the trade
acknowledgment, which would be defined to mean manual or electronic
signature of the trade acknowledgment by the receiving party. Is this
definition sufficient? Does this definition differ from current market practice,
and if so, how?
52. Are there other processes currently in place that would not fit within this
definition of “verification” that we should consider?
53. Although the Commission believes that matching services are an effective
way to verify SBS transactions, and increase the efficiency of the SBS
settlement process, the Commission has not proposed requiring SBS Entities
to submit their trades to a matching service. The Commission is concerned
that the variety of SBS transactions may make it unlikely that matching
services would be able to verify all transactions, and the Commission
questions whether all SBS Entities’ counterparties would be members or

33 


participants (or eligible to be members or participants) in a matching service.
Therefore, a requirement to submit all trades to a matching service could limit
both the types of transactions and the counterparties in the SBS market. We
request comment on the mandatory use of matching services. Would a
requirement to use matching services limit the types of SBS transactions or
counterparties in the market? How could the Commission mitigate those
effects?
E. 	

Exemption from Rule 10b-10

Proposed paragraph (f) of rule 15Fi-1 would provide an exemption from the
requirements of rule 10b-10 under the Exchange Act for SBS Entities that confirm their
SBS transactions in compliance with proposed rule 15Fi-1.40 Rule 10b-10 generally
requires that broker-dealers effecting securities transactions on behalf of customers,
provide to their customers, at or before completion of the securities transaction, a written
notification containing certain basic transaction terms.41
The Dodd-Frank Act amended the Exchange Act definition of “security” to
include any “security-based swap.”42 Consequently, SBS, as securities, are fully subject
to the federal securities laws and regulations, including, rule 10b-10.43 The Commission

40	

17 CFR 240.10b-10.

41	

Examples of transaction terms included on a rule 10b-10 confirmation include:
the date of the transaction; the identity, price, and number of shares bought or
sold; the capacity of the broker-dealer; the dollar or yield at which a transaction in
a debt security was effected, and under specified circumstances, the compensation
paid to the broker-dealer by the customer or other parties. Id.

42	

Dodd-Frank Act Sec. 761(a)(2) (codified at Exchange Act Section 3(a)(10)).

43	

The Commission will discuss further the implications of defining “security” to
include security-based swaps on the requirement for brokers and dealers to
register with its proposed rules for SBS Entity registration.

34 


anticipates that some SBS Entities may also be registered broker-dealers. Therefore, in
the absence of an exemption, an SBS Entity that is also a broker or dealer would be
required to comply with both rule 10b-10 and proposed rule 15Fi-1. This could be
duplicative and overly burdensome.
The proposed exemption in paragraph (f) would apply solely to transactions in
SBS in which an SBS Entity is also a broker or a dealer, and would not apply to a
transaction by a broker-dealer that is not also an SBS Entity. In other words, a brokerdealer that is not an SBS Entity would continue to comply with rule 10b-10 to the extent
that it effects transactions in SBS with customers.
As noted in Part A.1 above, because the proposed rule would apply solely to an
SBS Entity that “purchases” or “sells” an SBS, it is effectively limited to principal
transactions in which the SBS Entity is a counterparty to the transaction and is acting for
its own account. Thus, the proposed exemption in paragraph (f) would also apply solely
to principal transactions. The Commission recognizes that some SBS Entities may also
engage in SBS brokerage or agency transactions.44 Any broker acting as an agent in an
SBS transaction, regardless of whether it is also registered as an SBS Entity, would
continue to be required to comply with Rule 10b-10.45

44	

An SBS Entity’s agency activities would be done pursuant to its broker-dealer
registration under Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act. 15 U.S.C. 78o(b).

45	

This would include, at a minimum, disclosure of: the date of the transaction; the
identity, price and number of units (or the principal amount) bought or sold, and
the time of the transaction or the fact that it will be furnished upon written request
(17 CFR 240.10b-10(a)(1)); that they are acting in an agent capacity (17 CFR
240.10b-10(a)(2)); and, under specified circumstances, the amount of
remuneration to be received by the broker from the customer, and whether the
broker is receiving any other remuneration in connection with the transaction (17
CFR 240.10b-10(a)(2)(i)(B) and (D)).

35 


Request for Comment
The Commission solicits comment on all aspects of the proposed exemption from
rule 10b-10 for SBS Entities that provide a trade acknowledgment pursuant to proposed
rule 15Fi-1(f).
54. Is the proposed exemption from rule 10b-10 necessary or appropriate?
55. Is additional interpretive guidance regarding rule 10b-10 necessary?
III.

Implementation Timeframes
The Commission proposes that the rule be effective 60 days after publication of

the final rule in the Federal Register.
Request for Comment
The Commission solicits comment on all aspects of the implementation time
frame for proposed rule 15Fi-1.
56. Would the proposed time frame provide sufficient time for SBS Entities to
comply with the rule?
57. Should the implementation time be coordinated with the implementation
timeframes for proposed Regulation SBSR?
IV.

Paperwork Reduction Act
Certain provisions of the proposed rule would result in “collection of information

requirements” within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”).46
The Commission is therefore submitting proposed rule 15Fi-1 to the Office of
Management and Budget (“OMB”) for review in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507 and 5
CFR 1320.11. Compliance with the collection of information requirements would be

46

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

36 


mandatory. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to
respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid control number.
A. Summary of Collection of Information
As discussed above, Exchange Act Section 15F(i)(1) provides that SBS Entities
“shall conform with such standards as may be prescribed by the Commission, by rule or
regulation, that relate to timely and accurate confirmation, processing, netting,
documentation, and valuation of all security-based swaps.”47 Section 15F(i)(2) of the
Exchange Act further provides that the Commission must adopt rules governing
documentation standards for SBS Entities. Accordingly, proposed rule 15Fi-1 would
adopt documentation standards for the timely and accurate acknowledgment and
verification of SBS transactions by SBS Entities. The proposed rule contains six
paragraphs: (a) definitions of relevant terms; (b) the trade acknowledgment obligations of
specific SBS Entities; (c) the prescribed time frames under which a trade
acknowledgment must be sent; (d) the form and content requirements of the trade
acknowledgment; (e) an SBS Entities’ verification obligations; and (f) a limited
exemption for brokers from the requirements of Exchange Act Rule 10b-10.48
Under paragraph (b)(1) of proposed rule 15Fi-1, sending an SBS trade
acknowledgment would be the obligation of a particular SBS Entity (i.e., an SBS dealer
or major-SBS participant) depending on whether the SBS Entity and its counterparty are
SBS dealers or major SBS participants and/or any agreements between the counterparties
that delineate the trade acknowledgment responsibility. Paragraph (b)(2) of the proposed
rule however, would provide that SBS Entities will satisfy this requirement to the extent
47

15 U.S.C. 78o-8.

48

17 CFR 240.10b-10.

37 


that an SBS transaction is cleared through the facilities of clearing agency that matches or
compares the terms of the transaction. Regardless of how the trade acknowledgment
obligation is satisfied however, a trade acknowledgment would be required to be
provided within 15 minutes, 30 minutes or 24 hours following execution, depending on
whether the transaction is executed and/or processed electronically.49
Paragraph (d) of proposed rule 15Fi-1 would require that trade acknowledgments
be provided through electronic means and lists the 22 data elements that must be included
on each confirmation.50 Paragraph (e)(1) of proposed rule 15Fi-1 would require SBS
Entities to establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures reasonably designed
to obtain prompt verification of SBS trade acknowledgments. If a transaction is cleared
through a clearing agency, paragraph (e)(2) of the proposed rule would also require SBS
Entities to comply with the clearing agency’s verification procedures. Regardless of the
method of transmittal, when an SBS Entity receives a trade acknowledgment, pursuant to
paragraph (e)(3) of the proposed rule, it must promptly verify the accuracy of the trade
acknowledgment or dispute the terms with its counterparty. Paragraph (a) of the
proposed rule would define relevant terms and would not be a “collection of information”
49	

Under proposed Rule 15Fi-1(c)(1)(i), any transaction that is executed and
processed electronically would have to be acknowledged within 15 minutes of
execution. Transactions that are not electronically executed but processed
electronically would have to be acknowledged within 30 minutes of execution.
See proposed Rule 15Fi-1(c)(1)(ii). Finally, proposed Rule 15Fi-1(c)(1)(ii) would
require that all other transactions be acknowledged within 24 hours of execution.
Proposed paragraph (c)(2) of the rule however, would require that transactions be
processed electronically if the counterparties have the ability to do so. As the
market for derivatives develops further however, the Commission believes that
most SBS transactions will be processed electronically.

50	

See proposed Rule 15Fi-1(d) (1) through (22). See also discussion in Section
II.C. supra.

38 


within the meaning of the PRA. Similarly, paragraph (f) is an exemptive provision and
would not be a collection of information.
B. Proposed Use of Information
The trade acknowledgment and verification requirements of proposed rule 15Fi-1
would apply to both types of SBS Entities depending on whether the entity and its
counterparty are SBS dealers or major SBS participants and on any agreements between
counterparties addressing the obligation to send a trade acknowledgment. Generally, the
transaction details that would be provided in a proposed rule 15Fi-1 trade
acknowledgment would serve as a written record by which the counterparties to a
transaction memorialize the economic and related terms of a transaction. In effect, the
trade acknowledgment would reflect the contract entered into between the counterparties.
In addition, proposed rule 15Fi-1’s verification requirements are intended to assure that
the written record of the transaction (i.e. the trade acknowledgment) accurately reflects
the terms of the transaction as understood by the respective counterparties. In situations
where an SBS Entity is provided a trade acknowledgment that is not an accurate
reflection of the agreement, proposed rule 15Fi-1 would require the SBS Entity to dispute
the terms of the transaction.
C. Respondents
Proposed rule 15Fi-1 would only apply to SBS Entities, that is to SBS dealers and
major SBS participants, both of which would be registered with the Commission. Based
on the Commission staff’s discussions with industry participants and incorporated in our
other Dodd-Frank Act related rulemaking, we preliminarily believe that approximately 50
entities may fit within the definition of SBS dealer, and up to five entities may fit within

39 


the definition of major SBS participant. Thus, approximately 55 entities may be required
to register with the Commission as SBS Entities and thus, would be subject to the trade
acknowledgment provision and verification requirements of proposed rule 15Fi-1.51
D. Total Initial and Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping
Pursuant to proposed rule 15Fi-1, all SBS transactions would have to be
acknowledged and verified through the methods and by the timeframes prescribed in the
proposed rule. Collectively, paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of proposed rule 15Fi-1
identify the information that is to be included in a trade acknowledgment; the party
responsible for sending the trade acknowledgment; the permissible methods for sending
the trade acknowledgment; and criteria for verifying the terms of a trade
acknowledgment. According to the Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation
(“DTCC”), there are on average 36,000 single-name credit-default swap (“CDS”)
transactions per day,52 resulting in a total number of 13,140,000 CDS transactions per
year. The Commission preliminarily believes that CDSs represent 85% of all SBS
transactions.53 Assuming that at least one SBS Entity is a party to every SBS transaction,
the Commission preliminarily estimates that the total number of SBS transactions that

51	

We note that many clearing agencies already have facilities that would permit
SBS Entities to acknowledge and verify SBS transactions in addition to other
services provided by the clearing agency.

52	

See, e.g., http://www.dtcc.com/products/derivserv/data_table_iii.php (weekly data
as updated by DTCC).

53	

The Commission’s estimate is based on internal analysis of available SBS market
data. The Commission is seeking comment about the overall size of the SBS
market.

40 


would be subject to proposed 15Fi-1 on an annual basis would be approximately
15,460,000 which is an average of 281,091 transactions per SBS Entity per year.54
Based on discussions with industry participants, the Commission estimates that
approximately 99 percent, or 15,305,400 transactions,55 are processed electronically,
meaning that these transactions are either cleared through the facilities of a clearing
agency,56 or processed through an SBS Entity’s internal electronic systems. The
Commission believes that the remaining one percent of SBS transactions, or 154,600
transactions,57 are currently not processed electronically, but are acknowledged and
verified through other means, such as email, facsimile or other similar means.58
As discussed above, the Commission believes that most transactions will be
electronically executed and cleared through the facilities of a clearing agency. The
Commission understands that the clearing of SBS transactions through the facilities of a
clearing agency generally includes the matching and verification of such transactions.
The Commission has taken this process into account in paragraph (b)(2) of proposed rule
15Fi-1, which provides that SBS Entities will satisfy the requirement to provide a trade

54	

These figures are based on the following: [13,140,000 / 0.85] = 15,458,824, or
approximately 15,460,000. (15,460,000 estimated SBS transactions) / (55 SBS
Entities) = 281,091 SBS transactions per SBS Entity per year. The Commission
understands that many of these transactions may arise from previously executed
SBS transactions.

55	

15,460,000 SBS transactions x .99 = 15,305,400 transactions.

56	

See discussion in Part II.A.2 supra.

57	

15,460,000 SBS transactions x .01 = 154,600 transactions.

58	

We note that proposed rule 15Fi-1(c)(2) would require that SBS transactions be
processed electronically if the acknowledging entity has the ability to do so. As
noted above, the Commission believes that as this market develops further, fewer
SBS Entities will lack the ability to process SBS transactions electronically. See
also note 50 supra.

41 


acknowledgment if a clearing agency produces a confirmation through its facilities.
Nevertheless, the Commission believes that it will be necessary for SBS Entities, if they
have not already done so, to develop computerized systems for inputting the terms of an
SBS transaction and then transmitting that data to the relevant clearing agency for
electronic processing.
The Commission also believes that such computerized systems will necessarily
have to be programmed so that SBS transactions that are not electronically processed
through the facilities of a clearing agency can be processed internally. Indeed, it is the
Commission’s understanding, through publicly available information and discussions
with industry participants, that many SBS Entities may already have these types of
systems in place.
Because this information is anecdotal, for the purposes of the PRA, the
Commission assumes that most SBS Entities do not currently have the platforms
necessary for processing, acknowledging, and verifying SBS transactions electronically,
whether internally or by transmitting the necessary data packages to the facilities of a
clearing agency for processing. Therefore, the Commission believes that SBS Entities
will have to develop internal order and trade management systems (“OMS”) that will be
connected or linked to the facilities of a clearing agency and that will also be able to
process SBS transactions internally if necessary.59 The Commission believes that those
systems will also have front-office and back-office linkages that will permit the front

59

The Commission believes that systems for acknowledging and verifying SBS
transactions will likely be an additional functionality of an OMS that SBS Entities
would have to use to report SBS transactions to an SBS data repository. See
SBSR Proposing Release, note 16 supra.

42 


office to input SBS transaction details60 and to send these updates in real-time or near
real-time to the back-office so that complete packages of information can be sent to the
clearing agency for electronic processing and timely acknowledgment, or in the
alternative, so that the relevant SBS Entity can itself electronically process the transaction
and send the required trade acknowledgment.
Based on our staff’s discussions with industry participants and incorporated in our
other Commission rulemaking related to the Dodd-Frank Act,61 the Commission
preliminarily estimates that the development of an OMS by SBS Entities for electronic
processing of SBS transactions with the capabilities described above would impose a
one-time aggregate burden of approximately 19,525 hours, or 355 burden hours per SBS
Entity.62 This estimate assumes that SBS Entities will not have to develop an entirely
new OMS but rather, would leverage existing trading and processing platforms and adapt
those systems to satisfy the functionalities described above. In addition, the Commission
further preliminarily estimates that proposed rule 15Fi-1 would impose an ongoing
annual hour burden of approximately 23,980 hours or 436 hours per SBS Entity.63 This

60	

The Commission understands that in some instances, additional transaction details
may have to be entered post-execution but prior to processing. In the industry,
this process generally referred to as “enrichment.”

61	

See SBSR Proposing Release, note 16 supra, at Section XIII.B.4.a.

62	

This estimate is based on Commission staff discussions with market participants
and is calculated as follows: [((Sr. Programmer at 160 hours) + (Sr. Systems
Analyst at 160 hours) + (Compliance Manager at 10 hours) + (Director of
Compliance at 5 hours) + (Compliance Attorney at 20 hours)) x 55 (SBS
Entities)] = 19,525 burden hours at 355 hours per SBS Entity. The Commission
understands that many SBS Entities may already computerized systems in place
for electronically processing SBS transactions, whether internally or through a
clearing agency. This may result in lesser burdens for those parties

63	

This estimate is based on Commission staff discussions with market participants
and is calculated as follows: [((Sr. Programmer at 32 hours) + (Sr. Systems
43 


estimate would include day-to-day technical support of the OMS, as well as the
amortized annual burden associated with system or platform upgrades and periodic
implementation of significant updates based on new technology, products, or both.
In addition, pursuant to paragraph (e)(1) of proposed rule 15Fi-1, SBS Entities
must establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably
designed to obtain prompt verification of transaction terms. While the cost of these
policies and procedures will vary, the Commission estimates that such policies and
procedures would require an average of 80 hours per respondent to initially prepare and
implement, with a total initial burden of 4,400 hours for all respondents. 64 Once these
policies and procedures are established, the Commission estimates that it will take an
average 40 hours annually to maintain these policies and procedures per respondent, with
a total estimated average annual burden of 2,200 hours for all respondents.65
E. Recordkeeping Requirements
Pursuant to amendments to the Exchange Act from Title VII of the Dodd-Frank
Act, the Commission plans to propose separate rules for SBS transactions that include,
among other things, recordkeeping and transaction reporting requirements. Because a
trade acknowledgment will serve as a written record of the transaction, the information
Analyst at 32 hours) + (Compliance Manager at 60 hours) + (Compliance Clerk at
240 hours) + (Director of Compliance at 24 hours) + (Compliance Attorney at 48
hours)) x (55 SBS Entities)] = 23.980 burden hours, or 436 hours per SBS Entity.
64	

This estimate is based on Commission staff discussions with market participants
and is calculated as follows: [(Compliance Attorney at 40 hours) (Director of
Compliance at 20 hours) + (Deputy General Counsel at 20 hours) x (55 SBS
Entities)] = 4,400 burden hours, or 80 hours per SBS Entity.

65	

This estimate is based on Commission staff discussions with market participants
and is calculated as follows: [(Compliance Attorney at 20 hours) (Director of
Compliance at 10 hours) + (General Counsel at 10 hours) x (55 SBS Entities)] =
2,200 burden hours, or 40 hours per SBS Entity.

44 


required by proposed Rule 15Fi-1would be required to be maintained by an SBS Entity
subject to those rules. This requirement will be subject to a separate PRA submission
under that rulemaking.
F. Collection of Information is Mandatory
Each collection of information discussed above would be a mandatory collection
of information.
G. Will Responses of Collection of Information be Kept Confidential?
By its terms, information collected pursuant to proposed rule 15Fi-1 will not be
available to the public. Under other rules proposed by the Commission, however, most,
if not all, of the information required to be included in a trade acknowledgment, as
described in paragraph (d) of the proposed rule, will be otherwise publicly available. In
particular, under proposed Regulation SBSR,66 SBS Entities would be required to report
SBS transaction details to a SBS data repository that will in turn, publicly disseminate
SBS transaction data. To the extent however, that the Commission receives confidential
information pursuant to this collection of information that is otherwise not publicly
available, that information will be kept confidential, subject to the provisions of the
Freedom of Information Act.
H. Request for Comment
The Commission requests comment on all aspects of its burden estimates. The
Commission also solicits comment as follows:
58. Is the proposed collection of information necessary for the performance of the
functions of the agency? Would the information have a practical utility?

66

See SBSR Proposing Release, note 16 supra.

45 


59. How accurate are the Commission’s preliminary estimates of the burdens of
the proposed collection of information associated with proposed rule 15Fi-1?
How many entities would incur collection of information burdens pursuant to
rule 15Fi-1?
60. Would SBS Entities incur any additional burdens associated with designing,
creating and implementing a system for the processing, acknowledgment and
verification of SBS transactions pursuant to proposed rule 15Fi-1?
61. Would there be different or additional burdens associated with the collection
of information under proposed rule 15Fi-1 that an SBS Entity would not
undertake in the ordinary course of business?
62. Are there additional burdens that the Commission has not addressed in its
preliminary burden estimates?
63. Are there ways to enhance the quality, utility and clarity of the information to
be collected?
64. Are there ways to minimize the burden of collection of information on those
who would be required to respond, including through the use of automated
collection techniques or other forms of information technology?
65. What entities may be subject to proposed rule 15Fi-1? Would specific classes
of entities be impacted? How many entities would be impacted? Will any
entity or class of entities be impacted differently than others?
V.

Cost-Benefit Analysis
The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted, in part, to promote the financial stability of the

46 


United States by improving accountability and transparency in the financial system.67
Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act designates the Commission to oversee the SBS markets
and develop appropriate regulations. In furtherance of this goal, the Dodd-Frank Act
added Section 15F(i) to the Exchange Act, which requires SBS Entities to “conform with
such standards as may be prescribed by the Commission, by rule or regulation, that relate
to timely and accurate confirmation, processing, netting, documentation, and valuation of
all security-based swaps,” and provides that the Commission must adopt rules governing
those documentation standards. Accordingly, proposed rule 15Fi-1 would provide these
documentation standards with respect to the timely and accurate provision of trade
acknowledgments and verification of SBS transactions by SBS Entities.
The market for OTC derivatives, which has been described as opaque,68 has
grown exponentially in recent years69 and is capable of affecting significant sectors of the
U.S. economy. One of the primary goals of Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act is to
increase the transparency and efficiency of the OTC derivatives market and to reduce the

67	

See Pub. L. No. 111-203 Preamble.

68	

With respect to CDSs, for example, the GAO found that “comprehensive and
consistent data on the overall market have not been readily available,” that
“authoritative information about the actual size of the CDS market is generally
not available,” and that regulators currently are unable “to monitor activities
across the market.” GAO, “Systemic Risk: Regulatory Oversight and Recent
Initiatives to Address Risk Posed by Credit Default Swaps,” GAO-09-397T
(March 2009), at 2, 5, 27.

69	

The Bank for International Settlements semi-annual reports on the swap markets
summarizes developments in the OTC derivatives markets. The report breaks
down trading volumes and other statistics for various classes of derivatives,
including credit default swaps, interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives, and
equity and commodity derivatives. The report covers derivatives trading within
the G10 countries. The most recent report, available at
http://www.bis.org/statistics/derstats.htm, covers the period through the last
quarter of 2009.

47 


potential for counterparty and systemic risk.70 With respect to the confirmation of OTC
derivatives transactions, the GAO noted that the trading volume of credit derivatives,
such as SBS, had expanded so rapidly that the operational infrastructure and confirmation
practices of many SBS Entities had failed to keep pace with the increased volume.71 In
particular, the GAO noted, among other things, that the lack of automated systems for
confirming and verifying the terms of SBS transactions contributed to a significant
backlog of unconfirmed transactions, which in turn created significant legal and operation
risk for market participants.72 As a result, these risks and other operational issues
associated with OTC derivatives have been the focus of reports and recommendations by
the President’s Working Group,73 and of ongoing efforts to by the FRBNY74 to enhance
operational systems in the OTC market, including the reduction of confirmation backlogs
and the timely provision of confirmations and verification of transactions in OTC
derivatives.
Proposed rule 15Fi-1 would prescribe standards for the documentation and timely
provision of SBS trade acknowledgments and the verification of such trade
acknowledgments. More specifically, proposed Rule 15Fi-1 would require SBS Entities
to provide a trade acknowledgment of an SBS transaction within 15 minutes, 30 minutes

70

See “Financial Regulatory Reform – A New Foundation: Rebuilding Financial
Supervision and Regulation,” U.S. Department of the Treasury, at 47-48 (June 17,
2009).

71

See GAO Confirmation Report, supra, note 6 and accompanying text.

72

Id. at pages 12-15.

73

See, e.g., Press Release, President’s Working Group on Financial Markets,
Progress Summary on OTC Derivatives Operational Improvements (November
2008).

74

See, note 10, supra.

48 


or 24 hours following execution of the transactions, depending on whether the transaction
is executed and/or processed electronically.75 In addition, the proposed rule would
require SBS Entities to include specified information in the trade acknowledgment,76 to
verify transactions with other SBS Entities, and to establish, maintain, and enforce
reasonable written policies and procedures for verifying the transaction terms. The
proposed rule would require most SBS transactions to be processed and acknowledged
electronically if the SBS Entity has the ability to do so, but also would provide that many
of the requirements of the rule can satisfied through the facilities of the clearing agency
that clears an SBS transaction.
A. Benefits
The Commission believes that proposed rule 15Fi-1 would yield substantial
benefits to the SBS market and address many of the concerns noted by the GAO
regarding the timely and accurate acknowledgment of OTC derivatives transactions. In
particular, by requiring SBS Entities to timely provide trade acknowledgments and verify
SBS transactions and to use electronic means when possible, the Commission is
addressing the concern raised by the GAO regarding the legal and operational risks
associated with confirmation backlogs in the OTC derivatives markets. In particular, the
GAO noted in its report that the lack of automation was a significant contributor to
confirmation backlogs.77 The Commission believes that requiring SBS transactions to be
processed electronically would help reduce what the GAO described as the operational
and legal risks accompanying unconfirmed derivatives transactions. In addition, the
75

See note 49 supra.

76

See note 50 supra. See also proposed Rule 15Fi-1(c)(1).

77

See GAO Confirmation Report, supra note 6.

49 


Commission believes that permitting SBS Entities to rely on the facilities of a clearing
agency to satisfy their requirements under the proposed rule will encourage these entities
to use clearing agency facilities, thereby promoting efficiency and automation in this
market.
B. Costs
Proposed rule 15Fi-1 would impose initial and ongoing costs on SBS Entities.
The Commission believes that these costs will be a function of number of SBS
transactions entered into by SBS Entities, whether SBS Entities have the ability to
electronically process SBS transactions, and whether SBS Entities will enter into SBS
transactions that can be, and are, cleared by a clearing agency.
The Commission obtained information from publicly available sources and
consulted with industry participants in an effort to quantify the number of aggregate SBS
transactions on an annual basis. According to the DTCC, there are on average 36,000
single-name CDS transactions per day,78 resulting in a total number of 13,140,000 CDS
transactions per year. The Commission preliminarily believes that CDSs represent 85%
of all SBS transactions.79 Therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that there
will be a total of approximately 15,460,000 SBS transactions entered into each year.
Assuming that at least one SBS Entity is a party to every SBS transaction, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that the total number of SBS transactions that would
be subject to proposed 15Fi-1 on an annual basis would be approximately 15,460,000
78	

See, e.g., http://www.dtcc.com/products/derivserv/data_table_iii.php (weekly data
as updated by DTCC).

79	

The Commission’s estimate is based on internal analysis of available SBS market
data. The Commission is seeking comment about the overall size of the SBS
market.

50 


which is an average of 281,091 transactions per SBS Entity per year.80
To fulfill the proposed rule’s requirements, the Commission believes that SBS
Entities would have to develop an OMS with portals to relevant clearing agencies and
real-time or near real-time linkages between an SBS Entities’ front and back-office
operations. The development of an OMS would have to occur regardless of whether an
SBS transaction is, or can be, cleared by a clearing agency.
The Commission preliminarily estimates that an SBS Entity’s’ development of an
OMS that achieves compliance with proposed rule 15Fi-1 would impose a one-time
aggregate cost of $3,665,750,81 or approximately $66,650 per SBS Entity. This estimate
includes the development of an OMS that leverages off of an SBS Entities’ existing frontoffice and back-office operational platforms. The Commission further preliminarily
estimates that the requirements of proposed rule 15Fi-1 would impose an ongoing annual
aggregate cost of $4,022,920, or approximately $73,144 per SBS Entity. 82 This estimate

80	

These figures are based on the following: [13,140,000 / 0.85] = 15,458,424, or
approximately 15,460,000. (15,460,000 estimated SBS transactions) / (55 SBS
Entities) = 309,200 SBS transactions per SBS Entity per year. The Commission
understands that many of these transactions may arise from previously executed
SBS transactions.

81	

This estimate is based on the following: [((Sr. Programmer (160 hours) at $285
per hour) + (Sr. Systems Analyst (160 hours) at $251 per hour) + (Compliance
Manager (10 hours) at $294 per hour) + (Director of Compliance (5 hours) at
$426 per hour) + (Compliance Attorney (20 hours) at $291 per hour) x (50 SBS
Entities)] = $3,665,750 or $66,650 per SBS Entity. The Commission understands
that many SBS Entities may already computerized systems in place for
electronically processing SBS transactions, whether internally or through a
clearing agency.

82	

This estimate is based on Commission staff discussions with market participants
and is calculated as follows: [((Sr. Programmer (32 hours) at $285 per hour) +
(Sr. Systems Analyst (32 hours) at $251 per hour) + (Compliance Manager (60
hours) at $294 per hour) + (Compliance Clerk (240 hours) at $59 per hour )+
(Director of Compliance (24 hours) at $426 per hour + (Compliance Attorney (48
51 


would include day-to-day technical supports of the OMS, as well as an estimate of the
amortized annual burden associated with system or platform upgrades and periodic
“re-platforming” (i.e., implementing significant updates based on new technology,
products or both). In addition, the Commission estimates that the development and
implementation of written policies and procedures as required under paragraph (e)(1) of
the proposed rule would impose initial costs of $1,754,500, or approximately $31,900 per
SBS Entity.83 Once established, the Commission estimates that it would costs
respondents approximately $877,250 per year, or $15,950 per respondent,84 to update and
maintain these policies and procedures.
In sum, the Commission estimates that the initial cost of complying with proposed
rule 15Fi-1 will be $5,417,500 for all respondents, or $98,500 per SBS Entity.85 The
Commission estimates that total ongoing costs to respondents would be $4,900,170 for all
respondents, or $89,094 per SBS Entity.86

hours) at $291 per hour) x (55 SBS Entities)] = $4,022,920 burden hours, or
$73,144 per SBS Entity.
83	

This estimate comes from Commission staff experience regarding the
development of policies and procedures and is calculated as follows:
[(Compliance Attorney (40 hours) at $294 per hour) + (Director of Compliance
(20 hours) at $426 per hour) + (Deputy General Counsel (20 hours) at $581 per
hour) x (55 SBS Entities)] = $1,754,500 total, or $31,900 per SBS Entity.

84	

This estimate comes from Commission staff experience regarding the
development of policies and procedures and is calculated as follows:
[(Compliance Attorney (20 hours) at $294 per hour) + (Director of Compliance
(10 hours) at $426 per hour) + (Deputy General Counsel (10 hours) at $581 per
hour) x (55 SBS Entities)] = $877,250 total, or $15,950 per SBS Entity.

85	

($3,665,750 initial cost for developing OMS) + ($1,754,500 for developing
policies and procedures) = $5,417,500 for all respondents. ($5,417,500 / 505
Respondents) = $98,500 per SBS Entity.

86	

($4,022,920 ongoing cost for maintaining OMS) + ($877,250 for maintaining
policies and procedures) = $4,900,170 for all respondents. ($4,900,170 / 55
Respondents) = $89,094 per SBS Entity.
52 


C. Request for Comment
The Commission requests comment on the costs and benefits of proposed rule 15Fi-1
discussed above, as well as any costs and benefits not already described that could result.
In addition, the Commission requests comment on the following:
66. How can the Commission accurately estimate the costs and benefits of the
proposed rule?
67. What are the costs currently borne by SBS Entities that would be subject to
proposed rule 15Fi-1 with respect to the acknowledgment and verification of
SBS transactions?
68. How many entities would be subject to the proposed rule? 	How transactions
would be subject to the proposed rule?
69. Are there additional costs involved in complying with the rule that have not
been identified? What are the types, and amounts, of the costs?
70. Would the obligations imposed on SBS Entities by proposed rule 15Fi-1 be a
significant enough barrier to cause some firms not to enter the SBS market? If
so, how many firms might decline to enter the market? How could the cost of
their not entering the market be measured? How should the Commission
weigh those costs, if any, against the anticipated benefits from reducing legal
and operational risk to SBS Entities from the proposal, as discussed above?
71. Would there be additional benefits from the proposed rule that have not been
identified?

53 


VI. 	

Consideration of Burden on Competition and Promotion of Efficiency,
Competition, and Capital Formation
Exchange Act Section 3(f) requires the Commission, when engaging in

rulemaking that requires it to consider whether an action is necessary or appropriate in
the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of investors, whether the
action would promote efficiency, competition, and capital formation. In addition, Section
23(a)(2) of the Exchange Act requires the Commission, when making rules under the
Exchange Act, to consider the impact of those rules on competition. Section 23(a)(2)
also prohibits the Commission from adopting any rule that would impose a burden on
competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange
Act.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the documentation standards for the
provision of trade acknowledgments and verification of SBS transactions, as required by
the Dodd-Frank Act and implemented by proposed rule 15Fi-1, would promote
efficiency, competition, and capital formation by encouraging SBS Entities to automate
their systems for SBS transactions, providing further incentive for SBS Entities to clear
SBS transactions through clearing agencies’ automated facilities, thus lowering
transaction costs, and helping alleviate the legal and operational risks encountered by
SBS Entities when SBS transactions are otherwise confirmed through manual methods.
The Commission’s experience with the acknowledgment and verification of other
types of securities is that the timely resolution of disputes regarding the terms of a
transaction are more efficiently handled near in time to when the transaction took place.
Timely acknowledgment and verification of SBS transactions will provide counterparties
with the appropriate means by which to evaluate their own risk exposures in a timely

54 


manner, thereby enabling them to more quickly and efficiently determine whether and
how to deploy capital in other asset classes. In addition, the Commission believes that
competition will be promoted because market participants would be encouraged to enter
into SBS transactions with SBS Entities whose automated operations reduce the amount
of time it takes to confirm the terms of a trade. In particular, the Commission believes
that the need for speed and efficiency in today’s capital markets would encourage market
participants in general, and SBS Entities in particular, to provide quicker and more
efficient process for confirming SBS transactions because counterparties to an SBS
transaction must not only concern themselves with the SBS transaction, but also the
underlying reference security that itself is subject to rapid market movements.
VII.

Consideration of Impact on the Economy
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996

(“SBREFA”), the Commission must advise the OMB whether the proposed regulation
constitutes a “major” rule. Under SBREFA, a rule is considered “major” when, if
adopted, it results or is likely to result in: (1) an annual effect on the economy of $100
million or more (either in the form of an increase or a decrease); (2) a major increase in
costs or prices for consumers or individual industries; or (3) significant adverse effect on
competition, investment or innovation. If a rule is “major,” its effectiveness will
generally be delayed for 60 days pending Congressional review.
The Commission requests comment on the potential impact of proposed rule
15Fi-1 on the economy on an annual basis, on the costs or prices for consumers or
individual industries, and on competition, investment, or innovation. Commenters are

55 


requested to provide empirical data and other factual support for their view to the extent
possible.
VIII. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”) requires federal agencies, in
promulgating rules, to consider the impact of those rules on small entities. Section 603(a)
of the Administrative Procedure Act, as amended by the RFA, generally requires the
Commission to undertake a regulatory flexibility analysis of all proposed rules, or
proposed rule amendments, to determine the impact of such rulemaking on “small
entities.” Section 605(b) of the RFA states that this requirement shall not apply to any
proposed rule or proposed rule amendment which, if adopted, would not have a
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
For purposes of Commission rulemaking in connection with the RFA, a small
entity includes: (1) when used with reference to an “issuer” or a “person,” other than an
investment company, an “issuer” or “person” that, on the last day of its most recent fiscal
year, had total assets of $5 million or less; or (2) a broker-dealer with total capital (net
worth plus subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the date in the prior fiscal
year as of which its audited financial statements were prepared pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d)
under the Exchange Act, or, if not required to file such statements, a broker-dealer with
total capital (net worth plus subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the last day
of the preceding fiscal year (or in the time that it has been in business, if shorter); and is
not affiliated with any person (other than a natural person) that is not a small business or
small organization.

56 


Based on our staff’s discussions with SBS market participants, the Commission
preliminarily believes that the majority of SBS transactions have at least one counterparty
that is either a SBS dealer or major SBS participant, and that these entities – whether
registered broker-dealers or not – would exceed the thresholds defining “small entities”
set out above. Accordingly, neither of these types of entities would likely qualify as
small entities for purposes of the RFA. Moreover, even in situations in which one of the
counterparties to a SBS is not covered by these definitions, the Commission preliminarily
does not believe that any such entities would be “small entities” as defined in
Commission Rule 0-10. Industry participants have indicated to our staff that only
persons or entities with assets significantly in excess of $5 million participate in the SBS
market. For example, as stated in a current survey conducted by Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, 99.9% of CDS positions by U.S. commercial banks and
trusts are held by those with assets over $10 billion.87 Given the magnitude of this
figure, and the fact that it so far exceeds $5 million, the Commission preliminarily
believes that the vast majority of, if not all, SBS transactions do not involve small entities
for purposes of the RFA.
In addition, the Commission preliminarily believes that the entities likely to
register as SBS Entities would not be small entities. Industry participants have indicated
to our staff that most if not all of the registered SBS Entities would be part of large
business entities, and that all registered SBS Entities would have assets exceeding $5
million and total capital exceeding $500,000. Therefore, the Commission preliminarily
believes that none of the SBS Entities would be small entities.
87

See Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, “Quarterly Report on Bank
Trading and Derivatives Activities Second Quarter 2010” (2010).

57 


On this basis, the Commission preliminarily believes that the number of SBS
transactions involving a small entity as that term is defined for purposes of the RFA
would be de minimis. Moreover, the Commission does not believe that any aspect of
proposed rule 15Fi-1 would be likely to alter the type of counterparties presently
engaging in SBS transactions. Therefore, the Commission preliminarily does not believe
that proposed rule 15Fi-1 would impact any small entities.
For the foregoing reasons, the Commission certifies that proposed Rule 15Fi-1 would not
have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities for purposes
of the RFA. The Commission encourages written comments regarding this certification.
The Commission requests that commenters describe the nature of any impact on small
entities, indicate whether they believe that SBS Entities are unlikely to be small entities,
and provide empirical data to support their responses.
IX.

Statutory Basis and Text of Proposed Amendments
The Commission is proposing to adopt Rule 15Fi-1 pursuant to Section 15F of the

Exchange Act, as amended.
List of Subjects in 17 CFR Part 240
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities, Security-based swaps, Securitybased Swap Dealers, Major Security-based Swap Participants.
In accordance with the foregoing, the Securities and Exchange Commission is
proposing to amend Title 17, chapter II of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows:
PART 240 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
1. The general authority citation for Part 240 is revised to read as follows::

58 


Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn,
77sss, 77ttt, 78c, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78o, 78o4, 78o-8, 78p, 78q, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a-23, 80a-29, 80a-37,
80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, and 7201 et. seq.; and 18 U.S.C. 1350, and 12 U.S.C. 5221(e)(3)
unless otherwise noted.
*

*

*

*

2.

*
Add an undesignated center heading following § 15Cc1-1 and § 240.15Fi-

1 to read as follows:
REGISTRATION AND REGULATION OF SECURITY-BASED SWAP
DEALERS AND MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP PARTICIPANTS
§ 240.15Fi-1 Acknowledgment and verification of security-based swap transactions.
(a) Definitions. For the purposes of this section:
(1) The term asset class means those security-based swaps in a particular broad
category, including, but not limited to, credit derivatives, equity derivatives, and loanbased derivatives.
(2) The term broker ID means the UIC assigned to a person acting as a broker for
a participant.
(3) The term clearing agency means a clearing agency registered pursuant to
section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78q-1).
(4) The term confirmation means a trade acknowledgment that has been subject to
verification.
(5) The term desk ID means the UIC assigned to the trading desk of a participant
or of a broker of a participant.

59 


(6) The term execution means the point at which the parties become irrevocably
bound to a transaction under applicable law.
(7) The term participant ID means the UIC assigned to a participant.
(8) The term price means the price of a security-based swap transaction,
expressed in terms of the commercial conventions used in that asset class.
(9) The term processed electronically means entered into a security-based swap
dealer or security-based swap participant’s computerized processing systems to facilitate
clearance and settlement.
(10) The term trade acknowledgment means a written or electronic record of a
security-based swap transaction sent by one party to the other.
(11) The term trader ID means the UIC assigned to a natural person who executes
security-based swaps.
(12) The term unique identification code or UIC means the unique identification
code assigned to a person, unit of a person, or product by or on behalf of an
internationally recognized standards-setting body that imposes fees and usage restrictions
that are fair and reasonable and not unreasonably discriminatory. If no standards-setting
body meets these criteria, a registered security-based swap data repository shall assign all
necessary UICs using its own methodology. If a standards-setting body meets these
criteria but has not assigned a UIC to a particular person, unit of a person, or product, a
registered security-based swap data repository shall assign a UIC to that person, unit of a
person, or product using its own methodology.

60 


(13) The term verification means the process by which a trade acknowledgment
has been manually, electronically, or by some other legally equivalent means, signed by
the receiving counterparty.
(b) Trade Acknowledgment Requirement.
(1) In any transaction in which a security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant purchases from or sells to any counterparty a security-based swap,
a trade acknowledgment must be provided by:
(i) The security-based swap dealer, if the transaction is between a security-based
swap dealer and a major security-based swap participant;
(ii) The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, if only
one counterparty in the transaction is a security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant; or
(iii) The counterparty that the counterparties have agreed will provide the trade
acknowledgment in any transaction other than one described in paragraph (i) or (ii) of
this section.
(2) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant will
have satisfied the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if a clearing agency
through its facilities produces a confirmation of each security-based swap transaction.
(c) Prescribed Time.
(1) Any trade acknowledgment required by paragraph (b) of this section must be
provided promptly, but in any event:
(i) For any transaction that has been executed and processed electronically, within
15 minutes of execution;

61 


(ii) For any transaction that is not executed electronically, but that will be
processed electronically, within 30 minutes of execution; or
(iii) For any transaction that cannot be processed electronically by the securitybased swap dealer or security-based swap participant, within 24 hours following
execution.
(2) A transaction must be processed electronically if the security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant has the ability to do so.
(d) Form and Content of Trade Acknowledgment. Any trade acknowledgment
required in paragraph (b) of this section must be provided through electronic means that
provide reasonable assurance of delivery and a record of transmittal, and must disclose:
(1) The asset class of the security-based swap and, if the security-based swap is an
equity derivative, whether it is a total return swap or is otherwise designed to offer risks
and returns proportional to a position in the equity security or securities on which the
security-based swap is based;
(2) Information that identifies the security-based swap instrument and the specific
asset(s) or issuer of a security on which the security-based swap is based;
(3) The notional amount(s), and the currenc(ies) in which the notional amount(s)
is expressed;
(4) The date and time, to the second, of execution expressed using Coordinated
Universal Time (UTC);
(5) The effective date;
(6) The scheduled termination date;
(7) The price;

62 


(8) The terms of any fixed or floating rate payments, and the frequency of any
payments;
(9) Whether or not the security-based swap will be cleared by a clearing agency;
(10) If both counterparties to a security-based swap are security-based swap
dealers, an indication to that effect;
(11) If the transaction involved an existing security-based swap, an indication that
the transaction did not involve an opportunity to negotiate a material term of the contract,
other than the counterparty;
(12) If the security-based swap is customized to the extent that the information
provided in paragraphs (d)(1) through (11) of this section does not provide all of the
material information necessary to identify such customized security-based swap or does
not contain the data elements necessary to calculate the price, an indication to that effect;
(13) The participant ID of each counterparty;
(14) As applicable, the broker ID, desk ID, and trader ID of the reporting party;
(15) The amount(s) and currenc(ies) of any up-front payment(s) and a description
of the terms and contingencies of the payment streams of each counterparty to the other;
(16) The title of any master agreement, or any other agreement governing the
transaction (including the title of any document governing the satisfaction of margin
obligations), incorporated by reference and the date of any such agreement;
(17) The data elements necessary for a person to determine the market value of
the transaction;
(18) If the security-based swap will be cleared, the name of the clearing agency;

63 


(19) If the security-based swap is not cleared, whether the exception in Section
3C(g) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c-3(g)) was invoked;
(20) If the security-based swap is not cleared, a description of the settlement
terms, including whether the security-based swap is cash-settled or physically settled, and
the method for determining the settlement value;
(21) The venue where the security-based swap was executed; and
(22) If the transaction is to be cleared, any additional information that is required
for the transaction to be cleared by a clearing agency.
(e) Trade Verification.
(1) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must
establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures that are reasonably
designed to obtain prompt verification of the terms of a trade acknowledgment provided
pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) In any security-based swap transaction to be cleared through a clearing
agency, a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must
comply with the verification process prescribed by the clearing agency. Such compliance
shall satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section with respect to the
transaction.
(3) A security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant must
promptly verify the accuracy of, or dispute with its counterparty, the terms of a trade
acknowledgment it receives pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(f) Exemption from § 240.10b-10. A security-based swap dealer or major
security-based swap participant who is also a broker or dealer and who complies with

64 


paragraph (b) of this section with respect to a security-based swap transaction is exempt
from the requirements of § 240.10b-10 of this chapter with respect to the security-based
swap transaction.
By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

Dated: January 14, 2011

65 


