UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-12805

In the Matter of
:
Evergreen Investment
:
Management Company, LLC, :
Evergreen Investment Services, :
PROPOSED PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
Inc., Evergreen Service
:
Company, LLC and Wachovia :
Securities, LLC
:
:
Respondents.
:

1 Introduction
1.1	 On September 19, 2007, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission")
entered an order in this proceeding ("Order"). In the Matter of Evergreen
Investment Management Company, LLC, Evergreen Investment Services, Inc.,
Evergreen Service Company, LLC, and Wachovia Securities, LLC, Admin. Proc.
File No. 3-12805, Exchange Act Release No. 56462 (September 19, 2007). This
Distribution Plan sets forth the procedures by which to distribute to investors, for
the period spanning September 1998 through June 2004, their proportionate share
of the fund established to compensate such investors for the harm caused by the
conduct described in the Order. The fund is not intended to compensate investors
for losses they incurred because of fluctuations in securities markets.
2 The Engagement
2.1	 Kenneth Lehn, Ph.D., has been engaged as the Independent Distribution Consultant
(“IDC”) in the captioned matter.1 In that capacity, Dr. Lehn is to develop a plan to
distribute a fund collected by the Commission pursuant to the Order related to the
Commission’s findings that (i) Evergreen Investment Management Company, LLC
(“EIMCO”), Evergreen Investment Services, Inc. (“EIS”), and Evergreen Service

1

Dr. Lehn is the Samuel A. McCullough Professor of Business Administration at the University of
Pittsburgh.

Company, LLC (“ESC”), all of which were, at the time, wholly owned subsidiaries
of Wachovia Securities, LLC (“Wachovia”),2 created and/or implemented two
market timing3 arrangements that allowed registered representatives to make
frequent trades in certain Evergreen mutual funds (“Evergreen Funds”)4 during the
period of January 1999 through March 2003, on behalf of various customers, that
violated exchange limits disclosed in the funds’ prospectuses and (ii) EIMCO failed
to adequately enforce the exchange limits described in the funds’ prospectuses,
thereby resulting in a large amount of frequent trading in certain Evergreen funds
beginning September 1998, with most of the harm associated with this trading
occurring between September 1998 through December 1999.
2.2	 The Order required the Respondents to pay $32.5 million into a Fair Fund5 to be
distributed to investors in the Evergreen funds who incurred losses due to the
market timing subject to the Order. In a separate order, former Evergreen chief
executive William Ennis ("Ennis") was ordered to pay $1 in disgorgement and a
civil penalty of $150,000, which was to be added to the Fair Fund. In the Matter of
William M. Ennis, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-12806, Exchange Act Release No.
56464 (September 19, 2007). The $32.5 million payment by the Respondents
includes $28.5 million in disgorgement and $4 million in civil penalties. All of this
money currently is deposited at the United States Department of the Treasury,
Bureau of Public Debt (“Treasury”) earning interest through investment in shortterm U.S. Treasury securities. All interest earned will inure to the benefit of
investors, except as otherwise provided in the Order or herein. Other than interest
from these investments, it is not anticipated that the Fair Fund will receive
additional funds.
2.3	 As the IDC, Dr. Lehn has been asked to develop a Distribution Plan for the
distribution of the Fair Fund according to a methodology developed in consultation
with the Respondents and not unacceptable to the staff of the Commission (the
“Distribution Plan”) and to a majority of the independent trustees of the Evergreen

2

EIMCO, EIS, ESC, and Wachovia also are referred to as “the Respondents” in this Distribution Plan.

3

The Order defines market timing as including “(a) frequent buying and selling of shares of the same
mutual fund or (b) buying or selling mutual fund shares in order to exploit inefficiencies in mutual fund
pricing.” Order at ¶ 1. For purposes of this Distribution Plan, "market timing" refers to any trading in
violation of the limits set forth in the fund prospectus.

4

The term “Evergreen Funds” includes only those Evergreen funds that incurred aggregate dilution losses
of at least $100,000 because of the alleged market timing. In the Independent Distribution Consultant’s
judgment, it is not cost effective to make distributions for losses incurred by investors in Evergreen Funds
that incurred aggregate dilution losses of less than $100,000, given that the distributions that would be
made to investors in these funds would be small compared with the administrative and data storage costs of
including these funds. The method for determining losses in the Evergreen funds is described in Section 5.
5

“Fair Fund” as defined in Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

2


funds. The IDC will be compensated for his time and expenses by EIMCO in
accordance with the terms set forth in the Order.6
2.4	 The Distribution Plan relies on the findings in the Order. The estimated dilution
losses associated with market timing in the Evergreen Funds calculated by the IDC
are not intended to be, nor should they be interpreted to be, an estimate of damages
associated with illegal market timing in the Evergreen Funds. The estimated
dilution losses were calculated as a means to allocate to investors, as compensation
for losses suffered by the Evergreen Funds, a proportionate share of the fixed
settlement payment made by the Respondents and Ennis, together with accrued
interest.
2.5	 Although other reasonable methodologies could be employed to develop the
Distribution Plan, it is the view of the IDC that the methodology described herein
constitutes a fair and reasonable allocation of the Fair Fund in the context of the
captioned matter.
3 Representations of the IDC
3.1	 To the best of his knowledge, the IDC has received full cooperation from the
Respondents, including access to data and individuals as requested.
3.2	 Several people at Cornerstone Research, an economics consulting firm, have
assisted the IDC in developing the Distribution Plan, including John Gould, Anu
Bharadwaj, Garett Trombly, and Eric Post. All work in this matter has been done
under the IDC’s direction.
3.3	 Dr. Lehn has never been employed by the Respondents. Under the terms of the
Order, Dr. Lehn agrees that, for the period of this engagement and for a period of
two years from completion of this engagement, he will not “enter into any
employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship
with EIMCO, or any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers,
employees, or agents acting in their capacity[.]”7
3.4	 Pursuant to the terms of the Order, Cornerstone Research and/or its representatives
set forth above will not, without prior written consent of a majority of the
independent trustees of each Evergreen fund and the Commission’s staff, “enter
into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, auditing or other professional
relationship with EIMCO, or any of their present or former affiliates, directors,

6

Order at ¶ 32.

7

Order at ¶ 32.e.

3


officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the
engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement.”8
3.5	 The conclusions the IDC has reached in this matter should be viewed as specific to
this engagement and to the facts of this case.
4 Background
4.1	 In the Order, the Commission found that various Respondents violated Sections
206(1) and 206(2) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (the “Advisers Act”),
Section 17(d) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company
Act”) and Rule 17d-1 thereunder, Section 34(b) of the Investment Company Act,
and Section 17(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and
Rule 17a-4(b)(4) thereunder. None of the Respondents admitted or denied any of
the Commission’s findings in the Order.
4.2	 As stated above, the Respondents agreed to make a total settlement payment of
$32.5 million, including $28.5 million in disgorgement and $4 million in civil
penalties, and Ennis agreed to make a total settlement payment of $150,001,
including $1 in disgorgement and $150,000 in civil penalties. Pursuant to the
Order, Dr. Lehn was retained by the Respondents in December 2007 to develop a
plan for distributing these payments to investors in the Evergreen Funds who were
affected by the alleged market timing as described in the Order.
4.3	 Investors purchased shares in the Evergreen Funds through various distribution
channels.9 Each distribution channel presents unique challenges to the Distribution
Plan, and the manner of distribution to each channel is described herein.
4.3.1	 Direct Purchase Accounts – Certain investors bought their shares directly
through the distributor for the Evergreen Funds by submitting an
application with payment to the Evergreen Funds’ transfer agent,
Evergreen Service Company, LLC.
4.3.2	 Disclosed Accounts – Certain investors bought shares in the Evergreen
Funds through Financial Intermediaries10 who established accounts with
the Evergreen Funds’ transfer agent, which disclosed the investor’s

8

Order at ¶ 32.e.

9

A single investor may have purchased shares in multiple accounts. Hereafter, the term “accountholder”
refers to the name in which an individual account is held.
10

For purposes of the plan, a “Financial Intermediary” means a person, including a bank or broker, that in
the ordinary course of business maintains securities accounts for others and acted in that capacity. For
purposes of this definition, interests in a trust, profit sharing plan or retirement plan are not “securities
accounts.”

4


identity, contact information, purchases and redemptions. Investors are
the record holders of shares in Disclosed Accounts.
4.3.3	 Omnibus Accounts – Other investors bought their shares through
Financial Intermediaries that functioned as the accountholder of record.
Under this structure, the Financial Intermediary provided to the Evergreen
Funds’ transfer agent, on a daily basis, customer transaction data
concerning the number of shares purchased and sold by all customers on
an aggregate basis. Specific information, such as a tax identification
number for each customer or account, was not provided to the transfer
agent.
4.3.4	 Non-Disclosed Accounts – Other investors bought their shares through
Financial Intermediaries who provided a unique identifier for each account
to the Evergreen Funds’ transfer agent. The Financial Intermediary did
not provide the investor’s identity or contact information to the transfer
agent. The Financial Intermediary acts as the record owner of shares in
Non-Disclosed Accounts, but, unlike in Omnibus Accounts, holds the
shares exclusively for the beneficial owner who corresponds to the unique
identifier.
4.4	 The IDC sets forth below the methodology used to develop the plan for calculating
and distributing the Fair Fund to investors in the Evergreen Funds during the
relevant times.
5 Methodology Used to Develop Distribution Plan
5.1	 Data
5.1.1	 To estimate the effect of the relevant market timing transactions on
investors in the Evergreen Funds, the IDC requested the following data
from the Respondents for the period from January 1998 through June 2004
for all Evergreen funds: (a) trading records for all accountholders; (b)
daily closing net asset values (“NAVs”) and dividends; (c) data on daily
securities purchases and sales made by the funds; and (d) daily investor
flows (subscriptions and redemptions).
5.1.2	 The Respondents provided the IDC and Cornerstone with the requested
data. They also informed the IDC and Cornerstone that Ernst & Young
LLP (“E&Y”) had constructed a data set of exchanges based on the
transactions in the Evergreen funds by all accountholders to determine
exchanges that were in violation of the exchange limits set forth in the
prospectuses of the Evergreen funds over the period of January 1998
through June 2004. The IDC requested that the Respondents also provide
Cornerstone with the E&Y exchanges database, which they did.

5


5.1.3	 The IDC and Cornerstone used the data to identify market timing
transactions. Cornerstone created a dataset of trading pairs or “round trips”
using a “last in, first out” (“LIFO”) methodology. For example, assume a
given trader purchased 100 shares of a given Evergreen fund on January
15, bought an additional 50 shares on January 20, sold 100 shares on
January 22, and sold the remaining 50 shares on January 25. The LIFO
methodology results in a 50 share trade pair with a buy date of January 20
and a sell date of January 22, a second trade pair of 50 shares with a buy
date of January 15 and sell date of January 22, and a third trade pair of 50
shares with a buy date of January 15 and a sell date of January 25.
5.1.4	 The IDC based his analysis of the harm associated with market timing of
the Evergreen Funds on the transactions identified by E&Y as exchanges.
The IDC identified all accounts in each Evergreen fund that made at least
one “short-term” round trip of an amount greater than or equal to $50,000
that included an exchange in violation of the exchange limits as set forth
in the prospectuses of the Evergreen funds, where a short-term round trip
is a round trip for which the time difference between the sale and purchase
transactions comprising the round trip is less than or equal to 30 calendar
days. Hereafter, these identified accountholders are referred to as “market
timers.”
5.1.5	 Table 1A shows the number of market timers, the number of round trips
by the market timers, and the dollar amount of market timing in the
Evergreen Funds for the period from September 1998 to June 2004. The
table shows that the fund with the largest number of market timing round
trips during this period was the Evergreen Fund in which 368 account
holders made 9,200 round trips for a total transaction amount exceeding
$4 billion.
5.1.6	 Table 1B shows the same information by year. Table 1B shows that most
of the market timing appears to have occurred prior to year 2000. For
example, for the fund with the largest number of market timing round
trips, the Evergreen Fund, the majority of the timing trades occurred in the
years 1998 and 1999.
5.2

Estimation of Dilution Losses
5.2.1	 Transactions by market timers impose losses on other shareholders in a
mutual fund if the returns earned by the market timers exceed the returns
that the fund generates on the cash flows invested in the fund by the
market timers. These losses are referred to as “dilution losses.” The
amount of dilution losses associated with market timing is related to how
the fund manager invests the cash flows invested by market timers in the
fund. The IDC considered three approaches to estimating dilution losses

6


in this matter – (i) the next day NAV approach, (ii) the realized profits
approach, and (iii) the hybrid approach.
5.2.2	 Next Day NAV Approach. If the fund manager fully invests the net cash
flows in securities (or derivatives related to the securities) the day after a
market timer invests in the fund, and liquidates the securities investment
the day after the market timer exits the fund, then the “next day NAV”
approach is an appropriate way to estimate dilution losses associated with
market timing. Under this approach, dilution losses are equal to the sum
of the market timer’s first day profits plus avoided loss on the day the
market timer exits the fund.
5.2.3	 Realized Profits Approach. Alternatively, if the fund manager holds all of
the market timer’s net cash flows as cash (i.e., if the fund manager does
not invest any of the market timer’s cash flows in securities or
derivatives), then the “realized profits” approach is an appropriate way to
estimate dilution losses associated with market timing. Under the realized
profits approach, dilution losses are equal to the market timer’s holding
period profits (i.e., the difference between the proceeds the market timer
realizes upon redemption and the amount of the initial investment).
5.2.4	 Hybrid Approach. A third possibility is that the fund manager gradually
invests the market timer’s cash flows in securities or derivatives over a
period of time greater than one day and holds a portion of the cash flows
in cash until it is fully invested. In this case, dilution losses will tend to lie
between the dilution losses estimated under the next day NAV approach
and the realized profits approach.
5.3

Estimating Dilution Losses for the Evergreen Funds
5.3.1	 The IDC used regression analysis to estimate the extent to which the
portfolio managers of the Evergreen Funds used the net cash flows
invested in the Evergreen Funds by market timers to invest in securities.
Based on this analysis, the IDC determined it was appropriate to use the
following approaches to estimate dilution losses for the Evergreen Funds.
5.3.1.1 The regression analysis indicated that there was a statistically
significant relation between investor flows and net securities
purchases by funds for four of the Evergreen Funds, including
Evergreen Fund, International Growth Fund (renamed
International Equity Fund in June 2003), Global Opportunities
Fund, and Aggressive Growth Fund.
5.3.1.2 For two of the four funds – the International Growth Fund
(renamed International Equity Fund in June 2003) and the

7


Aggressive Growth Fund – the regression results suggested that the
portfolio managers of these funds invested almost all investor
flows in securities and derivatives on the day after investors
purchased shares in the funds. Hence, the next day NAV approach
is appropriate for these two funds. The next day NAV calculation
for purchases is computed as the NAV on the day after the
purchase less the NAV on the purchase date, multiplied by the
number of shares purchased. This measures the benefit from
trading on the purchase date versus the following day. For sales,
the calculation is the NAV on the sale date less the NAV on the
following date, multiplied by the number of shares. This measures
the loss avoided by transacting on the sale date versus the
following day.
5.3.1.3 For the other two funds – the Evergreen Fund and the Global
Opportunities Fund – the regression analysis revealed that not all
of the investor flows were invested in securities. Hence, the hybrid
approach is appropriate for these funds. In the hybrid approach,
for each LIFO trading pair, the fund’s incremental investment in
securities is estimated assuming that a constant fraction of a market
timer’s funds is invested in securities each day until either the
market timer’s funds are fully invested or the market timer’s shares
are redeemed. When the market timer’s shares are redeemed, the
portfolio manager is assumed to sell securities at the same rate to
fund the redemption
5.3.1.4 To illustrate, take the case where a market timer buys 10 fund
shares at $10 per share for a total of $100 on day 1, sells those 10
shares on day 4 for a total of $110, and the estimated daily average
investment rate is 10 percent per day. The model assumes the
portfolio manager invests $10 per day in securities on days 2
through 4 in response to the market timer’s investment.
Consequently, before the redemption on day 4, the fund holds $30
of the market timer’s funds in securities and $70 in cash; and
immediately after the redemption on day 4, the fund holds $30 of
the market timer’s funds in securities and has a cash deficit of $40
(= $70 - $110). On days 5 through 14, the portfolio manager is
assumed to sell $40 of securities at the rate of $4 per day to offset
the cash deficit and return the fund to its previous cash level.
To estimate the effect of the incremental investment, the fund’s
profits and losses on the incremental investment are estimated for
each day, and the total effect is the sum of the daily profits and
losses due to the incremental investment. The effect of the
incremental investment each day is estimated as the fund’s return

8


that day multiplied by the incremental investment in securities that
day. For example (continuing the previous illustration), the fund’s
investment in securities is $20 higher on day 3 than it would have
been absent the market timing activity. If the fund’s return on day
3 was 1 percent, then the investment of the market timer’s funds
benefited the fund’s shareholders that day by $0.20 (= $20 * .01).
If the fund’s return on day 3 was -2 percent, then the market timing
activity diluted the fund’s assets that day by $0.40 (= $20 * .02).
Finally, the effects of all incremental investments are added to or
subtracted from the total net profits made by the market timers
($10 in this example) to arrive at an estimate of the total dilution
from the market timing activity.
5.3.1.5 The regression analysis for the remaining ten funds for which data
were available to perform such analysis suggested that none of the
timer flows were invested in securities. Accordingly, the IDC
determined that the realized profits approach is appropriate for
these funds. The realized profits calculation is the difference
between the market timer’s sales proceeds and cost of purchases.
In addition, the realized profits approach was used for the
International Equity fund for the period prior to its merger with the
International Growth fund in October 23, 1998, as the data to
perform a regression analysis were unavailable.
6 Transaction Costs
6.1	 To the extent that market timing investments and disinvestments resulted in excess
portfolio purchases and sales, funds may have incurred transaction costs that
reduced their NAVs. Such transaction costs can be estimated by comparing
estimated transaction costs due to the funds’ actual inflows and outflows to the
estimated transaction costs that would have occurred had there been no market
timing activity. The IDC took the difference between the two estimates of
transaction costs as the incremental transaction cost attributable to the market
timing activity.
6.2	 The IDC modeled incremental transactions in response to a given inflow or outflow
by assuming that the portfolio manager invests (or disinvests) in securities at the
estimated daily average investment rate until the flow is completely invested (or
disinvested). For each inflow or outflow, this produces a series of daily
investments or disinvestments. To calculate net investment or disinvestment on
any given day, all investments and disinvestments on that day due to all previous
inflows and outflows are summed. In other words, on any given day, where there
is investment due to previous inflows and disinvestment due to previous outflows,

9


the investments and disinvestments are netted against each other. (Investments and
disinvestments are not netted against each other across days.)
6.3	 Transaction costs are estimated from the daily series of net investments by
multiplying the net investment or disinvestment on each day by the transaction cost
per dollar of investment or disinvestment. Total transaction costs are the sum of
the daily transaction costs over the entire period.
6.4	 Transaction costs vary by fund type and by time period. All funds for which
transactions costs were calculated were U.S. large-cap, U.S. small-cap, and
international funds for which the IDC obtained data from the Plexus Group11,
which provides transaction costs in the category of “commissions” and “impact
costs.”12
7 Adjustment for Interest
7.1	 The IDC adjusted the losses for accumulation of interest. For this calculation, the
IDC applied the federal short-term interest rate as determined by the IRS (Section
6621 of the Internal Revenue Code). Interest on the losses was calculated from the
day of the loss through June 30, 2004.13
8 Calculation of Distribution Amounts for Individual Investors
8.1	 Investors in each affected Evergreen Fund will receive a prorated share of the Fair
Fund based on the percentage of total losses incurred by the investors (“the
Distribution Amount”). For the purpose of this calculation, total losses are defined
as the sum of dilution losses, transaction costs, and accumulation of interest
incurred by all investors in Evergreen Funds that incurred losses of more than
$100,000 (i.e., the Evergreen Funds). The prorated share is to be calculated as the
percentage of the value of the fund held by an investor on a given day times the
total losses incurred by the fund on that day.
8.2	 For example, suppose an investor owned 0.1% of an affected Evergreen Fund on a
day when the Fund incurred total losses of $1 million. Under the Distribution Plan,
the investor’s total loss on this day would be $1,000 (i.e., 0.001 times $1 million).

11

Plexus Group specializes in the evaluation of execution efficiency and the costs of trading. In 2006,
Plexus Group was acquired by the Investment Technology Group.
12

“Impact costs” refer to the effect that a transaction has on the purchase or sale price of the underlying
security.

13

The calculation of interest is intended to reflect differences across investors as to when they incurred
dilution losses. As such, it is only necessary to add interest through June 30, 2004 the last date of the
market timing. Beyond this date, additional interest would accrue to all investors equally (on a percentage
basis) and hence would not affect the final distribution across investors.

10


8.3	 Each investor’s total losses are aggregated across all relevant days, with any gains
from market timing being offset against the losses. For each investor, the IDC will
calculate the total losses incurred by the investor as a percentage of the total losses
incurred by all investors in the affected Evergreen Funds. The Distribution
Amount for each investor is then calculated as this percentage times the amount in
the Fair Fund.
8.4	 Investors who: (a) prior to distribution under the Distribution Plan, are subject to
order(s) of the Commission, a court, or other authority, by settlement or otherwise,
of which the IDC has notice, finding them responsible for losses suffered by the
Evergreen Funds in connection with market timing of the Evergreen Funds during
the relevant periods; or (b) were market timers (as set forth in Section 5.1.4 above)
will, in accordance with Section 9.16, not be eligible for a distribution under the
Distribution Plan (the “Excluded Investors”).
8.5	 Only investors with an aggregate prorated share of at least $10 (including accounts
that have negative aggregate losses) across all funds and days are eligible to receive
a distribution from the Fair Fund. The decision to adopt a $10 de minimis
requirement is based on the conclusion that it is not cost effective to attempt to
distribute amounts of less than $10 to individual investors. The Distribution
Amount per investor will be prorated so that the total amount sent to investors
equals the amount available in the Fair Fund.
8.6	 Any monies not distributed to investors shall be distributed to the Evergreen Funds
in which the respective investors held their accounts.
9

Distribution of Funds

9.1	 Fund Administrator. Rust Consulting (“Rust”) is proposed to serve as the
administrator of the Fair Fund (“Fund Administrator”). Rust, founded in 1976, is a
service provider of technology for the legal industry and offers claims
administration services. Rust has extensive experience in both the settlement
administration industry (over 20 years) and has been the settlement administrator
for other SEC settlements in mutual fund market-timing matters. Rust will be
compensated for its time and expenses by the Respondents in accordance with the
terms set forth in the Order.14 In cooperation with the IDC, Rust will perform the
duties and obligations set forth herein, including overseeing the administration of
the Fair Fund; distributing funds from the Fair Fund to investors in accordance with
the Distribution Plan; preparing and submitting to the staff in accordance with Rule
1105(f) periodic accountings of all monies earned or received and all monies spent
in connection with the administration of the Distribution Plan; and, with the IDC,
submitting a final accounting for approval by the Commission.

14

Order at ¶ 32.d.

11


9.2	 Limitation on Liability. The IDC and the Fund Administrator, and/or each of their
designees, agents and assigns, shall be entitled to rely on any Orders issued in this
proceeding by the Commission, the Secretary by delegated authority, or an
Administrative Law Judge, and may not be held liable to any person other than the
Commission or the Fair Fund for any act or omission in the course of administering
the Fair Fund, except upon a finding that such act or omission is caused by such
party's gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct, reckless disregard of duty,
or reckless failure to comply with the terms of the Distribution Plan. This
paragraph is an expression of the current state of the law and is not intended, nor
should it be deemed to be, a representation to or an indemnification of the IDC or
the Fund Administrator or their designees, agents and assigns by the Commission
or the Fair Fund, nor should this paragraph preclude the Commission or the Fair
Fund from seeking redress for any act or omission in the course of administering
the Fair Fund or from seeking redress from any insurance or bond provided as set
forth in this Plan.
9.3	 Custody of the Fair Fund and Other Security Issues.
9.3.1	 The Fair Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund (“QSF”) under
Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. §468B(g), and
related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.
9.3.2	 The assets of the Fair Fund are subject to the continuing jurisdiction and
control of the Commission. The Fair Fund is currently deposited at the
Treasury.
9.3.2.1 Upon approval of the Distribution Plan by the Commission, the
IDC, the Fund Administrator, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company
Americas (the “Bank”) shall establish an escrow account at the
Bank in the name of and bearing the employer identification
number of the Fair Fund (the “Escrow Account”) as custodian for
the distributees of the Distribution Plan. The name of the account
shall be in the following form: [name of QSF], EIN No., as
custodian for the benefit of investors allocated a distribution from
the Evergreen Investment Management Company, LLC, et al. Plan
of Distribution. The escrow agreement (the “Escrow Agreement”)
must not be unacceptable to the Commission staff.
9.3.2.2 Upon approval of the Distribution Plan by the Commission, the
IDC and the Fund Administrator shall further establish a controlled
disbursement account in the name of and bearing the employer
identification number of the Fair Fund (the “Distribution
Account”).

12


9.3.2.3 Following approval of the Plan, and submission by the IDC of a
validated list of payees and amounts to the Commission staff and
all information necessary to make disbursement to each distributee,
and unless otherwise directed by the Commission, the Commission
staff will seek an Order Directing Disbursement that releases funds
to the Escrow Account based upon the validated list.
9.3.2.4 All funds will remain in the Escrow Account pursuant to the
Escrow Agreement until needed to satisfy a presented check or
wire instruction. At that time, and subject to the controls set forth
below, the amount needed to satisfy any presented check will be
transferred to the Distribution Account and immediately paid out,
subject to any adjustments resulting from stop payments or the
Positive Pay System and other controls described below. For any
payment to be made by wire instruction, and subject to the controls
set forth below, funds will be paid by the Bank from the Escrow
Account in accordance with written instructions provided to the
Bank by parties authorized by the Escrow Agreement.
9.3.2.5 The Fund Administrator shall be the signer on the Distribution
Account, subject to coordination with the IDC and subject to the
continuing jurisdiction and control of the Commission. The Fund
Administrator shall authorize the Bank to provide information on
the Escrow Account and the Distribution Account to the Tax
Administrator (defined in ¶ 10.12.1, below). In coordination with
the IDC, and at the direction of the Fund Administrator, the Bank
shall use the assets and earnings of the Escrow Account to provide
payments to eligible investors. Once the Fair Fund assets are
transferred from the Treasury to the Bank, they shall be placed in
the Escrow Account, which shall invest and reinvest the escrow
property in short-term U.S. Treasury securities and obligations, all
backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government;
provided however, that investments in short-term U.S. Treasury
securities will not be made through repurchase agreements or other
derivative products.
9.3.2.6 The Bank has provided the IDC with an attestation that all funds in
the Escrow Account and the Distribution Account will be held for
this Distribution Plan and that the Bank will not place any lien or
encumbrance of any kind upon the funds. All interest earned on
the monies will inure to the benefit of investors except as
otherwise provided in the Order or herein. All costs associated
with the Escrow Account and the Distribution Account will be
borne exclusively by the Respondents, in accordance with the

13


Order. Upon the Bank’s receipt of funds from the Treasury, the
Bank shall promptly deposit the funds into the Escrow Account. .
9.3.3	 A waiver of the bond required for the Fund Administrator by Rule 1105(c)
is requested. Good cause for waiver exists for the reasons that follow: (1)
the Fund Administrator will have no custody, and only limited control, of
the Fund. The Fund Administrator will provide a list of payments
including names, addresses and payment amounts to the IDC who will in
turn oversee the validation of these payments and provide a listing to the
SEC for approval; (2) the Fund will be held by Treasury until immediately
before transmittal of checks or electronic transfers to eligible investors.
Funds will be held by the Treasury and transferred to the Escrow account
on an agreed upon date within five days of the agreed date for distribution
of payments by check or wire; (3) upon transfer from Treasury, funds will
be held in an escrow account, separate from Bank assets, until presentation
of a check or electronic transfer, at which time funds will be transferred to
a controlled distribution account. All funds transferred from the Treasury
will be deposited in the Escrow account. Only the exact amounts needed
to pay the checks presented on a daily basis will be transferred to the
controlled disbursement account after those checks have cleared the
positive pay features used to validate that the checks are valid; (4)
presented checks or electronic transfers will be subject to “positive pay”
controls before being honored by the Bank. The Fund administrator will
provide the Bank with the list of checks being paid to be used to match
when those checks are presented for payment to the Bank; and (5) both the
Bank and the Fund Administrator will maintain, throughout this process,
insurance and/or a financial institution bond that covers errors and
omissions, misfeasance, and fraud.
9.3.4 	 The Fund Administrator maintains and will continue to maintain until
termination of the Fair Fund, errors and omissions insurance coverage
(“E&O insurance”). The primary insurer, Illinois Union Insurance
Company, is a company which, as of the most recent renewal of the
coverage, was rated “A+r XV” by A.M. Best. The Fund Administrator
maintains, and will continue to maintain until termination of the Fair
Fund, E&O insurance in the amount of $10,000,000. It has a policy limit
of $10,000,000 per occurrence and an overall limit of $10,000,000 during
the life of the policy. The Fund Administrator also maintains an
additional $10,000,000 in excess E&O insurance through Lloyds of
London underwriters who have an "A s XV" rating by A.M Best. In
addition, the Fund Administrator maintains a crime policy in the amount
of $5,000,000 per occurrence through Zurich American Insurance
Company (whose A.M. Best rating is "A g XV"), which provides
protection against employee dishonesty, forgery or fraudulent alteration of
securities, and electronic and computer crime exposures, which include
losses due to transfer, payment or delivery of funds as a result of
14


fraudulent input, preparation or modification of computer instructions,
data or fraudulent electronic transmissions or communications.
Documentation of coverage has been provided to the assigned
Commission staff for review and that coverage has been deemed “not
unacceptable.”
9.3.5 	 The Bank maintains, among other insurance, a Financial Institution
Blanket Bond in the amount of $125,000,000 Euros through the Chubb
Group of Insurance Companies, which has a Standard & Poors credit
rating of "AA/Stable", and errors and omissions insurance coverage in the
amount of $210,000,000 Euros through American International Group,
Inc., which has a Standard & Poors credit rating of "A+/Stable". The
Bank annually assesses the adequacy of its policy limits through extensive
analysis of historical loss data, exposure to loss and internal company
controls. The Bank’s limits are reviewed annually by its Board of
Directors. Documentation of coverage has been provided to the
assigned Commission staff for review and that coverage has been deemed
“not unacceptable.”
9.3.6 	 Once the Fair Fund has been transferred from the Treasury to the Bank,
the Fund Administrator will file an accounting during the first ten days of
each calendar quarter on a standardized accounting form provided by the
staff of the Commission, and will submit a final accounting for approval
of the Commission prior to termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of
the IDC and/or Fund Administrator.
9.4	 Additional Distribution Controls. Following approval of the Distribution Plan, and
in order to maximize the security of the Fair Fund, the following procedures will be
followed in connection with the Fair Fund:
9.4.1	 In order to distribute funds, the IDC will submit a validated list of payees
and the payment amounts to the assigned Commission staff, who will
obtain authorization from the Commission to disburse pursuant to SEC
Rule 1101(b)(6). The payees and amounts will be validated at the IDC’s
direction by the Fund Administrator. The validation will state that the list
was compiled in accordance with the Distribution Plan and provides all
information necessary to make a disbursement to each distributee. Unless
otherwise directed by the Commission, the Commission staff will obtain
an Order Directing Disbursement that releases funds to the bank account
established by the Fund Administrator based upon the validated list and
representation by the Fund Administrator that the checks or electronic
transfers will be issued within the next five business days. The Fund
Administrator will provide to the IDC a list identifying eligible investors
through multiple identifiers, including name, address, and the payment
amounts (the “Issue List”). The Issue List will be validated by the Fund
Administrator at the IDC’s direction through the performance of
15


procedures and methodologies chosen by the IDC. The validation will
state that the Issue List was compiled in accordance with the Distribution
Plan and provides all currently known information necessary to make
distribution to each eligible investor. At the IDC’s direction, the Fund
Administrator will provide the validated Issue List to the Bank. The
validated Issue List will be used in connection with the Positive Pay
System and other controls described below.
9.4.2	 The IDC will provide a copy of the validated Issue List to the Commission
staff. Upon receipt of the Issue List, the Commission staff will, as
appropriate, obtain authorization from the Commission or its delegate to
disburse pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6).
9.4.3	 Upon authorization by the Commission, the Commission staff will direct
the release of the Fair Fund from Treasury to the Escrow Account for
distribution as provided herein.
9.4.4	 The IDC, Commission staff, and the Fund Administrator will establish a
set “Mailing” date, or date on which the Fund Administrator will transmit
all checks or wires to eligible investors intended to be funded with the
released funds.
9.4.5	 The Commission staff will direct that the funds be released to the Escrow
Account on the day before the agreed-upon mailing date. The staff’s
direction will be based upon the Issue List and the representation by the
Fund Administrator that all amounts intended to be funded with the
released funds will be transmitted to eligible investors by check or wire on
the mailing date. The Fund Administrator will use its best efforts to mail
and/or transmit distribution checks or wire transfers within one business
day of the Escrow Account’s receipt of the funds. All efforts will be
coordinated to keep the time between the receipt of the funds and the
transmittal process at a minimum.
9.4.6	 Upon presentation of an outstanding check, and subject to the controls set
forth below, the exact amount needed to satisfy the presented obligation
will be transferred from the Escrow Account to the Distribution Account
and immediately paid out, subject to any adjustments resulting from stop
payments or the Positive Pay System and other controls described below.
All checks shall bear a stale date of 90 days. Checks that are not
negotiated within the stale date shall be voided, and the Fund
Administrator shall instruct the Bank to stop payment on those checks.
9.4.7	 As stated in ¶ 9.3.2.4, above, for any payment to be made by wire
instruction, funds will be distributed by the Bank from the Escrow

16


Account in accordance with written instructions provided to the Bank by
parties authorized by the Escrow Agreement.
9.4.8	 A Positive Pay System will be used to control distributions from the
Distribution Account, requiring, among other things, confirmation by the
Bank that all checks presented for payment match the identifiers and
amounts on the validated Issue List prior to payment of the presented
obligation.
9.4.9	 The Bank will report the aggregate amounts of transfers in and out of the
Escrow Account and the Distribution Account on a daily basis to the Fund
Administrator and the IDC. The Fund Administrator, on a daily basis and
using electronic “view functions” provided by the Bank, will confirm that:
the Escrow Account and the Distribution Account reconcile; and, with
respect to each instrument presented, that the proper amounts were
released from the appropriate account. The Fund Administrator will
regularly update the IDC as to the reconciliation of the Escrow Account
and Distribution Account and will alert the IDC and the staff of the
Commission as soon as possible under the circumstances upon the
detection of any irregularity that is not resolved in the ordinary course of
business. As appropriate, the Fund Administrator will monitor
outstanding large dollar checks and contact the eligible investor to
determine if the Fund Administrator can provide any assistance to speed
the presentment for payment of the outstanding check(s).
9.5	 Oversight and Costs. The Fund Administrator, in coordination with the IDC, will
administer this Distribution Plan. The IDC will work with the Fund Administrator
in the conduct of its duties with respect to this engagement, and the Fund
Administrator will keep the IDC informed as to work on this engagement. EIMCO
is responsible for all costs associated with the administration of the Distribution
Plan.
9.6	 Procedures for Identifying and Distributing to Eligible Investors. The Fund
Administrator will identify and make distributions to eligible investors in several
ways, depending on the distribution channel through which the investor purchased
the shares. The manner in which the investors will be identified and paid is as
follows:
9.6.1	

Direct Purchase Accounts and Disclosed Accounts: The Fund
Administrator will use records provided by EIMCO and its transfer agent
to identify each investor in Disclosed Accounts and Direct Purchase
Accounts and determine the shares held by each investor on a daily basis.
The Fund Administrator will then, in accordance with the Distribution
Plan and in coordination with the IDC, determine the Distribution Amount
payable to each eligible investor.

17


9.6.2	 Omnibus Accounts: In coordination with the IDC, the Fund Administrator
will identify and determine the Distribution Amount for these investors as
follows:
9.6.2.1 The Fund Administrator will use transfer agent records and other
Evergreen resources to identify Omnibus Accounts.
9.6.2.2 The Fund Administrator will, in accordance with the Distribution
Plan, determine net shares held in each Omnibus Account on a
daily basis.
9.6.2.3 In coordination with the IDC, the Fund Administrator will
calculate the total amount due to each Omnibus Account using the
methodology set forth in the Distribution Plan.
9.6.2.4 The Fund Administrator will engage in an “Outreach Process” by
which the Fund Administrator will contact each “Omnibus
Account Intermediary” with provisional distributions of $1,000 or
more and request investor records (i.e., shares held by each
investor on each day). The individual accountholder’s name and
address, as well as the tax identification number, for each account
within the Omnibus Account, will be requested from the Omnibus
Account Intermediary that sold the Evergreen Funds in this
manner. The accounts that are directly underlying the Omnibus
Account will be referred to as “Tier 1”.
9.6.2.5 The Fund Administrator shall maintain in confidence shareholder
identifying information and any other information relating to sub­
account holders obtained from any Omnibus Accountholder
pursuant to this Distribution Plan, and shall not share such
information with the Respondent. The Fund Administrator,
however, may share such information with its service providers or
other persons to the extent necessary to perform its duties under
this Distribution Plan, and shall require that such service providers
and other persons maintain such information in confidence.
9.6.2.6 Upon receipt of the individual accountholder records from each
Omnibus Account Intermediary, the Fund Administrator will, in
accordance with the methodology set forth in the Distribution Plan,
calculate the amount due each Tier 1 account as provided in
Section 9, above.
9.6.2.7 If Omnibus Account Intermediaries do not, within a reasonable
time, respond to the Fund Administrator’s Outreach Process or do

18


not provide the Fund Administrator with the requested individual
accountholder records, the Fund Administrator will proceed as
follows: the Fund Administrator will ask the Omnibus Account
Intermediary to certify that the Omnibus Account Intermediary
will make commercially reasonable efforts consistent with its
legal, fiduciary, and contractual duties, as applicable, to make the
distribution to its Tier 1 accounts in accordance with the
methodology and the deadlines set forth in this Distribution Plan,
and that the Omnibus Account Intermediary will return any
undistributed money to an account that has been established to
hold otherwise undistributed funds for ultimate disposition in
accordance with this Distribution Plan. After the Omnibus
Account intermediary has distributed funds in this fashion, the
Omnibus Account intermediary will be required to provide the
Fund Administrator and IDC with a certification that it has
complied with these terms and conditions.
9.6.2.7.1 	

After each such Omnibus Account
Intermediary has provided its certification to
the IDC, which Fund Administrator will
make commercially reasonable efforts to
obtain under the direction of the IDC, the
IDC will instruct the Bank to disburse the
portion of the Fair fund allocated to the
Omnibus Account Intermediary so that it
can make the distribution to its Tier 1
accounts.

9.6.2.7.2 	

If such certification is not provided, the
amount of Fair Fund allocated to such
Omnibus Account Intermediary shall be
treated as “undistributed” for purposes of the
Distribution Plan, and processed pursuant to
¶ 9.18, below.

9.6.2.7.3 	

The Fund Administrator will maintain
records of each attempt to contact an
Omnibus Account Intermediary to provide a
certification, and each response received, if
any. The records concerning those Omnibus
Account Intermediaries who do not provide
a certification as required by ¶ 9.6.2.7 will
be given to Commission staff at least 45
days before the scheduled distribution is to
be made.

19


9.6.3	 Non-Disclosed Accounts: In cooperation with the IDC, the Fund
Administrator will determine the Distribution Amount for these investors
as follows:
9.6.3.1 The Fund Administrator will use transfer agent records and other
Evergreen resources to identify Non-Disclosed Accounts.
9.6.3.2 In cooperation with the IDC, the Fund Administrator will calculate
the total amount due to the Non-Disclosed Accounts using the
methodology set forth in the Distribution Plan.
9.6.3.3 The Fund Administrator will contact each Financial Intermediary
that maintains Non-Disclosed Accounts and request individual
accountholder identification information. The investor name and
address, as well as the tax identification number, typically the
individual’s social security number, will be requested for each of
these accounts. This information will be requested from the
Financial Intermediaries identified in the records of the Evergreen
Funds as having sold the Evergreen Funds in this manner.
9.6.3.4 The Fund Administrator will make commercially reasonable
efforts to protect the privacy and confidentiality of the data,
including accountholder data, in any and all communications
with Evergreen, by using unique account identifiers.
9.6.3.5 Upon receipt of the individual accountholder records from each
Financial Intermediary, the Fund Administrator will, in accordance
with the methodology set forth in the Distribution Plan, calculate
the amount due each Tier 1 account as provided in Section 9,
above.
9.6.3.6	 The Fund Administrator will maintain records of efforts made to
obtain the cooperation of the Financial Intermediary and of the
responses to these efforts. In the event the Fund Administrator
cannot obtain from the Financial Intermediary the requested
individual accountholder records, or the Financial Intermediary
fails to provide to the Fund Administrator the requested records
within a reasonable time, the Fund Administrator will ask the
Financial Intermediary to certify that the Financial Intermediary
will make commercially reasonable efforts consistent with its
legal, fiduciary, and contractual duties, as applicable, to make the
distribution to its Non-Disclosed Accountholders in accordance
with the methodology provided by the IDC and the deadlines set
forth in the Distribution Plan, and that the Financial Intermediary

20


will return any undistributed money to an account that has been
established to hold otherwise undistributed funds for ultimate
disposition in accordance with the Distribution Plan. After the
Financial Intermediary has distributed funds in this fashion, the
Financial Intermediary will be required to provide the Fund
Administrator and IDC with a certification that it has complied
with these terms and conditions.
9.6.3.7 Upon receipt of the certification, the Fund Administrator will
deliver to such Financial Intermediary one check or wire transfer
representing the aggregate of all Distribution Amounts to which
the Financial Intermediary’s Non-Disclosed Accounts are entitled
under the Distribution Plan. Upon receipt of funds representing a
Non-Disclosed Account’s Distribution Amount, the Financial
Intermediary shall promptly distribute the funds to investors in
accordance with a payment schedule prepared by the Fund
Administrator identifying each accountholder by broker
identification number. The payment schedule prepared by the
Fund Administrator shall not provide for distributions to investors
if each such distribution is less than the de minimis amount of $10.
9.6.3.8 The Fund Administrator will maintain records of each attempt to
contact a Financial Intermediary regarding its Non-Disclosed
Accounts, each response received, if any, and the reason given for
not providing the certification required. The records of those
Financial Intermediaries who do not provide a certification as
required by ¶ 9.6.3.6 will be given to Commission staff at least 45
days before the scheduled distribution is to be made. In such
cases, the amount of Fair Fund allocated to such Financial
Intermediary’s Non-Disclosed Accounts shall be treated as
“undistributed” for purposes of the Distribution Plan, and
processed pursuant to ¶ 9.18, below.
9.6.4

Retirement Plans
9.6.4.1 “Retirement Plan” as used in this Distribution Plan means an
employee benefit plan, as such plans are defined in section 3(3) of
ERISA, 29 U.S.C. § 1002(3), which is not an Individual
Retirement Account (IRA), whether or not the plan is subject to
Title I of ERISA. Under this Distribution Plan, non-IRA retirement
plans are treated as Omnibus Accounts, and distributions to nonIRAs will be made in accordance with ¶ 9.6.2 of this Plan.
9.6.4.2 Assets of Retirement Plans are held in trust by a trustee, and the
trust is the legal owner of the assets. This Distribution Plan
21


requires the plan fiduciaries and intermediaries, as defined in
Department of Labor Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2006-01, April
19, 2006 (the “Field Assistance Bulletin”), of Retirement Plans to
distribute the monies received in accordance with their legal,
fiduciary, and contractual obligations and consistent with guidance
issued by the Department of Labor, including, but not limited to,
the Field Assistance Bulletin.
9.6.4.3 An intermediary to one or more Retirement Plans may allocate the
distribution it receives pursuant to this Distribution Plan among
eligible Retirement Plans participating in an Omnibus Account
administered by such intermediary according to the procedures set
forth in Section 8 of this Distribution Plan or according to the
average share or dollar balances of the Retirement Plans’
investments in the Evergreen Funds during the relevant period,,
provided, however, that for the purposes of such allocation each
Retirement Plan itself (and not the individual plan participants)
shall be treated as the beneficial owner.
9.6.4.4 The fiduciary of a Retirement Plan receiving a distribution may
distribute it pursuant to one of the following four alternatives:
9.6.4.4.1 	 Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the
distribution to current and former participants in the
Retirement Plan using the methodology referenced in
Section 8 of this Distribution Plan. The IDC will make
the methodology available to Retirement Plan
fiduciaries.
9.6.4.4.2 	 Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the
distribution pro rata (based on total account balance)
among the accounts of all persons who are currently
participants in the Retirement Plan (whether or not they
are currently employees).
9.6.4.4.3 	 Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the
distribution per capita among the accounts of all
persons who are currently participants in the Retirement
Plan (whether or not they are currently employees).
9.6.4.4.4 	 To the extent that none of the three preceding
alternatives is administratively feasible because the
costs of effecting the allocation exceed the amount of
the distribution, Retirement Plan fiduciaries may, to the

22


extent permitted by the Retirement Plan, use the
distribution amount to pay the reasonable expenses of
administering the plan.
9.6.4.5 	In view of, among other things, alternative methodologies
available to Retirement Plans, plan fiduciaries and/or
intermediaries will not be reimbursed the costs and expenses
associated with administering the distribution received pursuant to
this Plan.
9.7	 In accordance with the Order, the Respondents will bear the costs and expenses
associated with the administration of the Distribution Plan. Such costs and
expenses shall include the fees of, and reasonable administrative costs incurred by
the Fund Administrator and Omnibus Account Intermediaries and Financial
Intermediaries for identifying individual accountholder records in connection with
the Distribution Plan. Requests for reimbursement from Omnibus Account
Intermediaries or Financial Intermediaries shall be made within [60] days after
notice of the proposed distribution, and will be paid to the extent that such costs are
commercially reasonable in light of the amount to be distributed to such firms. All
reimbursement requests are subject to review and a final decision by the IDC. The
decision by the IDC shall be made within 30 days of receipt of the request for
reimbursement.
9.8	 Data Accuracy. All intermediaries providing information to the Fund
Administrator will be required to attest to the IDC that to the best of their
knowledge, the information they provide is true and accurate.
9.9	 Affected Investors. Even though the Distribution Plan does not anticipate soliciting
accountholder information directly from affected investors, it can be expected that a
limited number of investors will contact the IDC, or others, to request a
distribution. If this occurs, the information received will be compared to the data
obtained by the IDC during the course of the engagement to (1) ensure accurate
account information and (2) avoid any duplication of payment. This information
will be forwarded to the Fund Administrator for an appropriate response.
9.10	 Notice and Investor Communications. The Fund Administrator will provide
notification and information services to affected investors. These services will
become active at least by the time of the first distribution. The Commission staff
retains the right to review and approve any material posted on the various websites.
9.10.1 Evergreen Website. After the approval of this Distribution Plan,
Evergreen will maintain an Evergreen Funds website
(www.evergreenfairfundsettlement.com) that will provide all affected
investors of the Evergreen Funds with regular and ongoing updates about
the Distribution Plan, including notice of the proposed plan, instructions
on how to obtain copies of the proposed plan, and how to submit

23


comments on the proposed plan to the Commission. The website will
provide a link to the Commission’s website, which is: http://www.sec.gov
9.10.2 Notice of a Proposed Plan and Opportunity for Comment.	 Notice of this
Plan shall be published in the SEC Docket, on the Commission website
(www.sec.gov), and on the Respondent’s website
(www.evergreenfairfundsettlement.com). Any person or entity wishing to
comment on the Plan must do so in writing by submitting their comments
within thirty days of the date of the notice (i) by sending a letter to the
Office of the Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-1090; (ii) by
using the Commission’s Internet comment form
(www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or (iii) by sending an e-mail to
rule-comments@sec.gov. Comments submitted by e-mail or via the
Commission’s website should include the Administrative Proceeding File
Number (Admin. Proc. File No. 3-12805) in the subject line. Comments
received will be available to the public. Commenters should only submit
information that they wish to make publicly available.
9.10.3 Final Approved Plan. The Final Approved Plan will be posted on the
following free public websites:
www.sec.gov
www.evergreenfairfundsettlement.com
9.10.4 Additional Communications to Eligible Investors. In addition, the Final
Approved Plan and other communications about the distribution will be
posted on the following website:
www.evergreenfairfundsettlement.com
9.10.5 Investor Call Center. The Fund Administrator will provide a toll-free
investor call center. The call center number(s) will be published in the
Explanation that accompanies the distribution checks, described in ¶
9.11.1, below.
9.11	 Distribution. Upon the Commission’s approval, in coordination with the IDC, the
Fund Administrator will implement the Distribution Plan. The Commission retains
jurisdiction over the implementation of the Distribution Plan.
9.11.1 All payments shall be preceded or accompanied by a communication (the
“Explanation”) that includes, as appropriate: (a) a statement
characterizing the distribution; (b) a description of tax information

24


reporting required of the QSF and other related tax consequences; (c) a
statement that checks will be void after 90 days; and (d) the toll free phone
number of the Investor Call Center, to be used in the event of any
questions regarding the distribution. Any such information letter or other
communication about the Distribution Plan shall be submitted to the
assigned Commission staff for review and approval. Distribution checks,
on their face or in the accompanying mailing, will clearly indicate that the
money is being distributed from a Fair Fund established by the SEC.
9.11.2 All investors will receive the Explanation and their distribution checks.
9.11.3 It is expected that all distribution checks will be mailed, via the United
States Postal Service (“USPS”), to the eligible investors’ last known
address of record. All checks drawn on the Distribution Account will bear
the legend “Void after 90 days.” A wire transfer may be made in lieu of a
check payment where efficiencies dictate.
9.11.4 The Fund Administrator has agreed to provide regular updates and
reconciliations to the IDC, and will provide a final reconciliation of all
undistributed funds to the IDC.
9.12	 Tax Issues. The methods for calculating each investor’s share of the Fair Fund are
intended to result in a payment to each eligible investor that restores the impaired
value of the investor’s investment in the affected Evergreen Funds.
9.12.1 Tax Administrator. The Commission has appointed Damasco &
Associates (“Damasco”) as the Tax Administrator of the Fair Fund (“Tax
Administrator”). In the Matter of Evergreen Investment Management
Company, LLC, Evergreen Investment Services, Inc., Evergreen Service
Company, LLC, and Wachovia Securities, LLC, Admin. Proc. File No. 3­
12805, Exchange Act Release No. 56658 (October 12, 2007). The IDC,
the Fund Administrator, and the Respondents will cooperate with the Tax
Administrator in providing information necessary to accomplish the
income tax compliance, ruling and advice work assigned to the Tax
Administrator by the Commission. The Tax Administrator shall be
compensated by the Respondents in accordance with the Order.
9.12.2 Other Tax Obligations. The IDC will consult with the Tax Administrator
regarding the Fair Fund’s income tax compliance, reporting and
withholding obligations, if any. The IDC shall work with the Tax
Administrator to make adequate reserves for tax liability and any costs of
tax compliance not required to be paid by the Respondents.

25


9.13	 Claims Process. The Fair Fund is not being distributed according to a claims-made
process, so the procedures for providing notice and for making and approving
claims are not applicable.
9.14	 Locating Investors. In cooperation with the IDC, the Fund Administrator will
handle returned and/or undelivered mail and checks will as follows:
9.14.1 All mail returned by the USPS for which a new forwarding address has
been provided by the USPS will be voided. The master database will be
updated with the new address and a new check will be issued.
9.14.2 All mail returned by the USPS for the first time, without a new forwarding
address, will be coded as returned mail, the check will be voided, and
current account information forwarded to an address research firm for
address research. If a new address is found, that address will be updated
to the master database and a new check will be issued. If no new address
is found, the original check will remain voided. Additional efforts to
identify the addresses of eligible investors will be conducted as is
commercially reasonable in the view of the IDC, where the costs of further
research and the amount to be distributed will be considered.
9.14.3 All mail returned by the USPS from a second attempted mailing, for
which a new forwarding address has been provided by the USPS, will be
voided. The master database will be updated with the new address and a
new check will be issued.
9.14.4 All mail returned by the USPS from a second attempted mailing, without a
new forwarding address, will be coded as returned mail and the check will
be voided. Additional efforts to identify the addresses of eligible investors
will be conducted as is commercially reasonable in the view of the IDC,
where the costs of further research and the amount to be distributed will be
considered.
9.14.5 All uncashed checks returned as undeliverable will be coded as
“undeliverable”. These checks will be marked “VOID” directly on the
check, coded into the settlement database, and stored in a secure facility
until destroyed.
9.15	 Special Circumstances. It is anticipated that distribution checks will be returned to
the Fund Administrator for various reasons, including the death, divorce,
incapacitation, bankruptcy, or dissolution of the affected eligible investor. The
Fund Administrator and/or the IDC will resolve and process these distributions on a
case-by-case basis.

26


9.16	 Excluded Investors. Not later than 30 days after the Commission’s final approval
of the Plan, the Fund Administrator will, in coordination with the IDC, attempt to
notify the Excluded Investors that they are excluded from the distribution of the
Fair Fund. The notice will also inform the Excluded Investors that they can review
the Distribution plan through the Evergreen website. An Excluded Investor may
dispute its exclusion from the distribution by submitting to the Fund Administrator,
a sworn statement under penalty of perjury containing information about why it
should not be excluded from the distribution. Any submission must be made to the
IDC, through the Fund Administrator, within 60 days after Plan approval. The IDC
will resolve any dispute in his sole discretion and his decisions will be final.
9.16.1 Any submissions may be shared with the staff of the Commission. 	False
statements in connection with any submissions may subject the certifying
individual or entity to civil or criminal sanctions, including, but not
limited to, liability under 18 U.S.C. § 1001, liability for any false
statements made in an unsworn certificate under penalty of perjury as
permitted by 28 U.S.C. § 1746, or liability under any other applicable law.
9.17	 Distribution Timing. The Fund Administrator will use its best efforts to start the
distribution no later than 180 days after plan approval and to complete the
distribution within six months of the distribution start date.
9.18	 Undistributed Funds.
9.18.1 	 A residual account within the Fair Fund is established for any amounts
remaining after all funds have been distributed. The residual account may
include funds reserved for future taxes and related expenses, distributions
from checks that have not been cashed, from checks that were not
delivered, or from funds returned to the Fund Administrator. The residual
account will be disbursed to the Evergreen Funds after the distribution to
investors is complete and allocated to the funds based on the proportion of
aggregate dilution losses incurred by each Evergreen Fund.
9.18.2 In order to implement distribution of the residual to the Evergreen Funds,
each fund eligible to receive a distribution will be notified that the
allocated monies are designated solely for the fund, should be deposited
into the fund’s asset base, and are not to be used directly for administrative
or management fees. In addition, each fund will be required to certify in
advance that the money will be deposited into the fund as intended. If this
certification is not provided within the deadline specified by the Fund
Administrator, the Fund Administrator will make reasonable efforts to
contact the mutual fund and will maintain records of each attempt to
contact the mutual fund, and each response received, if any. These
records will be provided to the Commission staff at least 45 days before
the scheduled distribution is to be made. Any fund that does not provide
the certification will no longer be considered eligible for a distribution,

27


and the distribution allocated to that fund will be reallocated to other
Evergreen Funds.
9.19	 Termination of the Fair Fund. The Fair Fund shall be eligible for termination, and
the Fund Administrator shall be discharged, after all of the following have
occurred: (1) a final accounting, in an SEC standard accounting format provided
by the staff, has been submitted by the Fund Administrator for approval of, and has
been approved by, the Commission, (2) all taxes, fees and expenses have been paid,
and (3) any amount remaining in the Fair Fund has been received by the
Commission. When the Commission has approved the final accounting, the staff
shall seek an order from the Commission to approve the transfer of any amount
remaining in the Fair Fund to the U.S. Treasury, and to terminate the Fair Fund and
discharge the Fund Administrator.
9.20	 Extensions of Deadlines. For good cause shown, the Commission staff may extend
any of the procedural deadlines set forth in the Distribution Plan.
9.21	 Material Changes in Plan. The IDC and Fund Administrator shall take reasonable
and appropriate steps to distribute the Fair Fund according to the Distribution Plan.
The IDC will inform the Commission staff of any changes needed in the
Distribution Plan. Upon agreement with Commission staff, the IDC may
implement immaterial changes to the Distribution Plan to effectuate its general
purposes. If a change is deemed to be material by the Commission staff,
Commission approval is required prior to implementation by amending the
Distribution Plan, which may be done upon the motion of any party or the Fund
Administrator or upon the Commission’s own motion.

28


Table lA
Summary of Market Timer Activity In The Evergreen Funds·
9/1/98 - 6/30/04
Source: Evergreen

Fund Name
Evergreen Fund
Global Large Cap Equity Fund
.
International Growth Fund (renamed International Equity Fund in June 2003)
U.S. Government Fund
Mid Cap Growth Fund
Municipal Bond Fund
Precious Metals Fund
Global Opportunities Fund
Growth and Income Fund
Aggressive Growth Fund
Emerging Markets Growth Fund
Perpetual International Fund
Growth Fund
High Yield Bond Fund
International Equity Fund (Pre-Merger)

Number of Market
Timing Accounts
~68

277
481
98
113
80
44
142

20
39
85
19
21
31
9

Number of Market
Timing Round Trips

Total Transaction
Amount

9,200
2,728
·2,475
1,150
1,109
428
391
369
328
223
175
143
141
97

$4,304,482,282
$3,381,043,567
$525,119,604
$150,968,306
$455,232,689
$601,060,445
$35,250,931
$117,605,390
. $238,770,151
$67,688,381
$39,563,836
$49,593,212
$54,645,385
$159,897,227
$59,879,034.

.42

Table IB
Summary of Market Timer Activity In The Evergreen Funds By Year
9/1/98 - 6/30/04
Source: Evergreen

Fund Name
Evergreen Fund
Evergreen Fund
Evergreen Fund
Evergreen Fund
Evergreen Fund
Global Large Cap Equity Fund
Global Large Cap Equity Fund
Global Large Cap Equity Fund
Global Large Cap Equity Fund
Global Large Cap Equity Fund
Global Large Cap Equity Fund,
International Growth Fund (renamed International Equity Fund in June 2003)
International Growth Fund (renamed International Equity Fund in June 2003)
International ,Growth Fund (renamed International Equity Fund in June. 2003)
International Growth Fund (renamed International Equity Fund in June 2003)
International Growth Fund (renamed International Equity Fund in June 2003)
International Growth Fund (renamed International Equity Fund in June 2003)
Internationa.1 Growth Fund (renamed International Equity Fund in June 2003)
U.S. Government Fund
,U.S. Government Fund
,U.S. Government Fund
U.S. Government Fund
U.S. Government Fund
U.S. Government Fund
Mid Cap Growth Fund
Mid Cap Growth Fund,
Mid Cap Growth Fund
Mid Cap Growth Fund
Mid Cap Growth Fund
, Mid Cap Growth Fund

Year

1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
1998
1999
2000
2001,
2002
2003
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
1998
1999,
2000
2001
2002
2003
1998
1999
2000
2001,
2002
2003

Number of Market
, Timing RQund Trips

1,709
6,962
494
16
19
241
1,375
310
44
754
4
35
153
124
195
1,877
90
1

5
11
50
195
836
53
108
375
140
159
240
87 .

Total Transaction
Amount

$720,575,057
$3,343,799,396
$234,795,730
$2,552,891
$2,759,207
$522,476,482
$2,479,192,032
, $291,435,794
$4,623,570
$82,858,416
$457,275
$31,591,334
$105,231,081
$65,044,186
$34,851,217
$269,437,249
$18,791;968
$172,569
$653,573
$4,264,985
$5,686,325
$22,177,931
$105,815,523
$12,369,970
$52,705,134
$166,809,071
$75,999,392
$80,306,147
$66,013,020
, $13,399,926

Page 1

.:."
"

.

:;:"
.~

. 'f

:~::;.

Table IB
Summary of Market Timer Activity In The Evergreen Funds By Year
9/1/98 - 6/30/04
. Source: Evergreen

Fund Name.
Municipal Bond Fund
Municipal Bond Fund
Municipal Bond Fund
. Municipal Bond Fund
Municipal Bond Fund
MuniCipal Bond Fund
Municipal Bond Fund
Precious Metals Fund
Precious Metals Fund
Precious Metals Fund
Precious Metals Fund
Precious Metals Fund
Precious Metals Fund
Precious Metals Fund
Global Opportunities Fund
Global Opportunities Fund
Global Opportunities Fund
Global Opportunities Fund
Global Opportunities Fund
Global Opportunities Fund.
Growth And Income Fund
Growth And Income Fund
Growth And Income Fund
Growth And Income Fund·
Growth And Income Fund
Growth And Income Fund
Aggressive Growth Fund·
Aggressive Growth Fund
Aggressive Growth Fund
Aggressive Growth Fund

Year

1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
1998
1999
·2000
2001
2002
·2003
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
1998
1999
2000
2001

Number of Market
Timing Round Trips

Total Transaction
Amount

12
162
90
43
86
34
1
30
30
6
10
287
26
2
10
67
33
7
241
11
24
280
16

$15,623,632
$306,052,948
$209,164,012
$42,793,305
$23,124,600
$4,187,007
$114,940
$4,440,894
$6,211,897
$1,053,396
$1,460,075
$18,760,050
$3,066,969
$257,650
$18,805,276
$48,285,988
$10,443,585
·$5,441,578
$32,397,569
$2,231,394
$16,745,131
$210,277,561
$10,177,168
$641,213
$568,900
$360,178
$13,657,237
$35,195,003
$12,876,219
$1,049,765

3

3
2
49
89
38
8

Page 2

Table lQ
Summary of Market Timer Activity In The Evergreen Funds By Year
9/1/98 - 6/30/04
Source: Evergreen

Fund Name

Aggressive Growth Fund
Aggressive Growth Fund
Emerging Markets Growth Fund
Emerging Markets Growth Fund
Emerging Markets Growth Fund
Emerging Markets Growth Fund
Emerging Markets Growth Fund
Perpetu,allnternational Fund
Perpetual International Fund
Perpetual International Fund
Growth Fund
Growth Fund
Growth Fund
Growth Fund
Growth Fund
High Yield Bond Fund
High Yield Bond Fund
High Yield Bond Fund
_.High Yield Bond Fund
High Yield Bond Fund
High Yield Bond Fund
High Yield Bond Fund
International Equity Fund (Pre-Merger)

Year

2002
2003
1999
2000·
2001
2002
2003
1999
2000
2001
1999
2000
2001 .
2002
2003
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
1998

.Number of Market
Timing Round Trips

34

5
26
10
5
119
15
34
21
88
54
.5
4
74
4
2
20
26

5
33
8
3

42

Total Transaction
Amount

$4,009,779
$900,378
$11,650,968
$3,618,131
$1,325,081
$21,142,551
$1,827,106
$27,228,326
$5,572,884
. $16,792,002
$41,416,345
$3,509,875
$629,530
$8,432,082
$657,553
$627,046
$32,572,368 .
$100,968,643
$1,643,481
$23,322,985
$559,595
$203,109
$59,879,034·

Page 3

