UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
BEFORE THE
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11645
____________________________________
:
In the Matter of
:
:
PA FUND MANAGEMENT LLC f/k/a
:
PIMCO ADVISORS FUND
:
MANAGEMENT LLC, PEA CAPITAL
:
LLC f/k/a PIMCO EQUITY ADVISORS :
LLC, AND PA DISTRIBUTORS LLC
:
f/k/a PIMCO ADVISORS
:
DISTRIBUTORS LLC,
:
:
Respondents.
:
____________________________________:

Proposed Plan of Distribution

I.

Introduction
1. This Distribution Plan sets forth the procedures by which to distribute to investors, for the
period spanning February 2002 through April 2003, their proportionate share of the fund
established to compensate such investors for injury they may have suffered as a result of
market timing in four funds that were formerly part of the PIMCO Equity Funds: MultiManager Series (“Equity Funds” or “Funds”), Growth Fund, Opportunity Fund, Target
Fund, and Innovation Fund. Losses and fees will be paid to all shareholders who were
directly harmed by the market timer, to the extent that these shareholders can be
identified and located. The Fair Fund is not intended to compensate investors for losses
they incurred because of fluctuations in securities markets.

II.

Background
2. On September 13, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”)
entered an Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant
to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment
Company Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Ceaseand-Desist Order against PA Fund Management LLC 1 (f/k/a PIMCO Advisors Fund
Management LLC) (“PAFM”), PEA Capital LLC (f/k/a PIMCO Equity Advisors LLC)
(“PEA”), and PA Distributors LLC 2 (f/k/a PIMCO Advisors Distributors LLC) (“PAD”)
(collectively, “Respondents”). 3
3. In the Order, the Commission found that the Respondents violated, directly or indirectly,
Sections 204A, 206(1), and 206(2) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, and Sections
17(d) and 34(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940. None of the Respondents
admitted or denied any of the Commission’s findings in the Order.

1
2
3

Currently known as Allianz Global Investors Fund Management LLC.
Currently known as Allianz Global Investors Distributors LLC.
In the Matter of PA Fund Management LLC (f/k/a PIMCO Advisors Fund Management LLC), PEA Capital
LLC (f/k/a PIMCO Equity Advisors LLC), and PA Distributors LLC (f/k/a PIMCO Advisors Distributors
LLC), Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11645 (September 13, 2004) (“Order”).

2

4. The Commission found, among other things, that Respondents, entrusted with advising
and distributing the Funds, represented to investors that the Funds would limit a practice
known as market timing. Consistent with this policy, the Funds actively policed market
timing activities and prevented some Fund shareholders from engaging in it. However,
without any disclosure to Fund shareholders (and contrary to representations),
Respondents negotiated an agreement with Canary Capital Partners LLC (“Canary”), a
hedge fund, that allowed Canary to market time four of the Equity Funds: the Growth
Fund (from April 11, 2002 until November 21, 2002), the Opportunity Fund (from April
11, 2002 through April 3, 2003), the Target Fund (from February 8, 2002 until November
21, 2002), and the Innovation Fund (from February 8, 2002 through February 21, 2002).
Canary is disqualified from participation in this Distribution Plan and within 30 days of
the Commission’s final approval of this Distribution Plan, Canary will be notified that it
is ineligible to receive a distribution.
5. The Order required Respondents to pay $10 million in disgorgement (of which
$1,616,738 was previously returned to the Funds). The Order further required
Respondents to pay civil money penalties totaling $40 million: $20 million by PEA, $10
by PAFM, and $10 million by PAD.
6. A Fair Fund was established for these funds. 4 Since February 22, 2005, the Fair Fund
has been maintained by the United States Department of the Treasury Bureau of Public
Debt (“Bureau of Public Debt”), earning interest through investment in short-term U.S.
government obligations. Other than interest from these investments, it is not anticipated
that the Fair Fund will receive additional funds.
Total Penalty and Disgorgement
Amount Previously Returned to Funds
Interest from Deposit of Monies in Fair Fund (through April 30, 2010)
Total to be Distributed

4

“Fair Fund” is defined in Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

3

$50,000,000
(1,616,738)
7,095,743
$55,479,005

III.

Engagement of the Independent Distribution Consultant
7. Pursuant to the Order, in October 2004, Michael F. Koehn, Ph.D., was engaged as the
Independent Distribution Consultant (“IDC”) in this matter. As IDC, Dr. Koehn was
asked to develop a Distribution Plan for the Fair Fund, and any interest or earnings
thereon, according to a methodology developed in consultation with Respondents and
acceptable to the staff of the Commission and the independent Trustees of the Equity
Funds.
8. Pursuant to the Order, the IDC’s compensation and expenses shall be borne exclusively
by Respondents.

IV.

Qualifications of the IDC
9. Dr. Koehn is an economist specializing in applied microeconomics and finance. He has
performed research and given economic testimony in antitrust, regulatory, tax, and other
business litigation matters and is the author of several publications on such topics as
mutual funds, banking and finance, energy economics, and real estate. He is the cofounder of Analysis Group, Inc. an economic and financial consulting firm.

V.

Representations of the IDC
10. The IDC received full cooperation from Respondents, including access to files, books,
records and personnel.
11. The IDC has directed this work, but has been assisted by individuals at Analysis Group,
Inc., who performed certain calculations under the direction of the IDC.
12. Under the terms of the Order, the IDC agrees that for a period of two years from
completion of the engagement, the IDC will not enter into any employment, consultant,
attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Respondents, or any of its
present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their
capacity as such.

4

VI.

The Distribution Plan
13. The table below summarizes the planned distributions to investors in the Funds.
Fund
Target
Growth
Opportunity
Innovation
Total to be Distributed to Shareholders

Total Distribution
$ 2,327,178
15,758,012
5,305,575
26,601
$23,417,366

14. The distribution of the Fair Fund is based on shareholders’ losses, defined as shareholder
dilution and transaction costs, caused by the timing activity in the Growth, Opportunity,
Target and Innovation Funds. Harmed shareholders will receive their losses suffered and
will also receive an allocation, based on their assets, of advisory fees paid by the funds
that suffered losses and an allocation, based on their harm, of interest earned on the Fair
Fund from February 22, 2005 through April 30, 2010. Upon termination of the Fair
Fund, any monies that remain in the Fair Fund will be transferred to the Commission for
remittance to the U.S. Treasury.
A. Identifying Harmed Investors
15. Investors purchased shares in the Equity Funds through one of three distribution
channels.
a. Direct Accounts – Direct shareholders are retail shareholders, joint accounts and
Individual Retirement Accounts (“IRAs”) that are held directly with the Equity
Funds. In these accounts, the shareholder of record and the ultimate shareholder
are the same.
b. Omnibus Accounts – Omnibus accounts are accounts in which the transactions of
two or more individual investors are combined into the single account of an
intermediary, such as a broker/dealer, who is the shareholder of record. An
omnibus account is transparent if the shareholder of record has access to records
identifying the actual beneficial owners and is opaque if the shareholder of record
does not have access to such records. It is impossible to know the underlying

5

shareholder account information within each omnibus account without further
information from the omnibus shareholder of record.
c. Accounts of Retirement Plans – Retirement plan accounts are the accounts of any
“employee benefit plan,” as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA, which is not an
Individual Retirement Account (“IRA”), whether or not the plan is subject to Title
I of ERISA.
16. Shareholders from each of these three distribution channels are eligible to receive
distributions.
17. The IDC has requested and received electronic shareholder data from the Funds’ transfer
agent, including information related to direct shareholders, including those invested in
retirement accounts, and omnibus accounts. This information is maintained
confidentially and held exclusively for the Fair Fund Administrator (the “Fund
Administrator”).
18. The Fund Administrator shall maintain in confidence shareholder identifying information and any
other information relating to sub-account holders obtained from any Omnibus Accountholder
pursuant to this Distribution Plan, and shall not share such information with Respondents. The
Fund Administrator, however, may share such information with its service providers or other
parties to the extent necessary to perform its duties under this Distribution Plan, and the Fund
Administrator shall require that such service providers and other parties maintain such
information in confidence..

B. Calculation of Losses to Individual Investors
19. The methods of calculation of each eligible investor’s share of the Fair Fund are intended
to result in a payment to each eligible investor that restores the impaired value of the
investor’s investment in the Funds. This impaired value (dilution plus transaction costs),
is estimated using the methodology described in the Appendix to this Distribution Plan.
The methods of calculation are intended by the Commission to fairly estimate the
impaired value that each investor has suffered and make a payment in that amount. In the
view of the IDC, this calculation will result in a fair and reasonable allocation of the Fair
Fund.

6

20. The intent of the Distribution Plan is to distribute cash to shareholders in the form of
checks or electronic deposits. The amount allocated to each eligible investor will include
the net losses due to the timing activity; that is, at the individual investor level, any gains
the investor may have realized due to the timing activity are netted against the losses. It
will also include the return of fees.
21. A de minimis distribution amount will be set at $10. To the extent that a shareholder’s
net losses plus return of fees are less than $10, the losses and fees returned to that
shareholder will be $10. In the view of the IDC, this ensures that all shareholders who
were harmed will receive at least $10 and constitutes a fair and reasonable allocation of
the Fair Fund.
22. Within an omnibus account there may be individual accounts with positive or negative
timing dilution. Thus, if information about underlying shareholders were known,
distributions to individual underlying shareholders may differ from those that would be
made if the shareholder of record were treated as a single shareholder.
C. Notice of Proposed Distribution Plan and Opportunity for Comment
23. Notice of this Distribution Plan shall be published in the SEC Docket, on the
Commission website (http://www.sec.gov), and on Respondents’ website. Any persons
or entities wishing to comment on the Distribution Plan must do so in writing by
submitting their comments within thirty days of the date of the notice (i) by sending a
letter to the Office of the Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange Commission,
100 F Street, N.E., Washington, D.C. 20549-1090; (ii) by using the Commission’s
Internet comment form (www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or (iii) by sending an email to rule-comments@sec.gov. Comments submitted by e-mail or via the
Commission’s website should include the Administrative Proceeding File Number
(Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11645) in the subject line. Comments received will be
available to the public. Commenters should only submit information that they wish to
make publicly available.

7

24. The Fair Fund is not being distributed according to a claims-made process, so the
procedures for providing notice and for making and approving claims are not applicable.
25. This Distribution Plan is subject to approval by the Commission and the Commission
retains jurisdiction over the implementation of the Distribution Plan.
D. Amendments to the Distribution Plan
26. The IDC will inform the Commission staff of any changes in the Distribution Plan. Upon
agreement with Commission staff, the IDC may implement immaterial changes to the
Plan to effectuate its general purposes. If a change is deemed to be material by the
Commission staff, Commission approval is required prior to implementation by
amending the Plan, which may be done upon the motion of any party or the Fund
Administrator or upon the Commission’s own motion.,
VII. The Distribution Process
A. Fund Administrator
27. Rust Consulting, Inc. (“Rust”) is proposed to serve as the administrator of the Fair Fund
(“Fund Administrator”) and will be compensated by Respondents. Rust is a third-party
service provider with extensive experience in class action and settlement matters, having
provided services in class actions affecting over 100 million class members.
28. The Fund Administrator will provide customer support and communications programs
that will become active at least by the time the first distribution occurs. These services
will include a toll-free number and a website available to the public. The Commission
retains the right to review and approve any material posted on the website. No login will
be required to access the website, which will not contain shareholder-specific
information.
29. The Fund Administrator will set up and staff a call center with operators trained and
dedicated to responding to investor inquiries or concerns about the distribution process.
The Fund Administrator will report on this activity periodically to the Independent
Trustees of the Funds and to the IDC.
30. The IDC and Rust currently have an agreement in place requiring Rust to perform certain
tasks in preparation for the forthcoming distribution of the Fair Fund. To date, Rust has

8

successfully met its obligations under the agreement and the IDC believes that Rust will
perform satisfactorily as the Fund Administrator.
B. Custody of the Fair Fund
31. The Commission has custody of the Fair Fund and shall retain control of the assets of the
Fair Fund. The Fair Fund is currently deposited at the Bureau of Public Debt.
32. Under the Distribution Plan, the Fund Administrator will have no custody of, and only
limited control of, the Fair Fund. In coordination with the IDC, the Fund Administrator
will be responsible for, among other things: overseeing the administration of the Fair
Fund, obtaining accurate mailing information for shareholders, preparing accountings,
providing the information necessary to accomplish income tax compliance, distributing
money from the Fair Fund to shareholders in accordance with and subject to approval of
this Distribution Plan.
33. Upon approval of the Distribution Plan by the Commission, the Fund Administrator shall
establish an account at Deutsche Bank, in the name of and bearing the Taxpayer
Identification Number of the Qualified Settlement Fund (“QSF”). 5 The QSF Account
will not be commingled with assets of Deutsche Bank and will not be subject to the
claims of creditors.
34. The Fund Administrator shall be the signer on the QSF Account, subject to the
continuing jurisdiction and control of the Commission. The Fund Administrator shall
authorize Deutsche Bank to provide account information to the Tax Administrator. The
Fund Administrator shall use the assets and earnings of the Fair Fund to provide
payments to Investors and to provide the Tax Administrator with assets to pay tax
liabilities and tax compliance fees and costs. The QSF Account shall be invested in
direct obligations of the United States Government of a type and term necessary to meet
the cash requirements of the payments to Investors, tax obligations and fees. Upon
approval of an Order of Disbursement, Deutsche Bank will receive and hold monies to be
distributed to shareholders in one or more dedicated escrow accounts.

5

The Fair Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund (“QSF”) under Section 468B(g) of the Internal
Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. §468B(g), and related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.

9

C. Insurance
35. Deutsche Bank maintains a Financial Institutions (FI) Bond, including errors and
omissions coverage, with an aggregate limit of 200,000,000 Euro and a Bankers Blanket
Bond of 250,000,000 Euro. Deutsche Bank’s primary insurer is Chubb, a company
which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated “A+XV” by A.M. Best.
36. Deutsche Bank annually assesses the adequacy of its policy limits through extensive
analysis of historic loss data, exposure to loss and internal company controls. Deutsche
Bank’s limits are reviewed annually by the bank’s Board of Directors.
37. A waiver of the bond required for the Fund Administrator by Rule 1105(c) is requested.
Good cause for waiver exists for the reasons described herein: (1) the Fund
Administrator will have no custody, and only limited control, of the Fair Fund; (2) the
Fair Fund will be held by U.S. Treasury Bureau of Public Debt until immediately before
transmittal of checks or electronic transfers to eligible investors; (3) funds will be
transferred from U.S. Treasury Bureau of Public Debt to Deutsche Bank and those funds
will be held in an escrow account, separate from bank assets, until presentation of a check
or electronic transfer, at which time funds will be transferred to a controlled distribution
account; (4) presented checks or electronic transfers will be subject to “positive pay”
controls before honored by Deutsche Bank; and (5) both Deutsche Bank and the Fund
Administrator will maintain, throughout this process, insurance and/or a financial
institution bond that covers errors an omissions, misfeasance, and fraud.
38. In lieu of bond, the Fund Administrator maintains and will continue to maintain insurance
until termination of the Fair Fund. The primary insurer, Illinois Unions Ins. Co. (ACE
USA) is a company which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated “A+ XV” by A.M.
Best. The Fund Administrator maintains, and will continue to maintain until termination
of the Fair Fund, E&O insurance in the amount of $10,000,000. It has a policy limit of
$10,000,000 per occurrence and an overall limit of $10,000,000 during the life of the
policy. The Fund Administrator also maintains an additional $5,000,000 in excess
general insurance. Lastly, the Fund Administrator maintains a crime policy in the
amount of $5,000,000 per occurrence, which provides protection against employee
dishonesty, forgery or fraudulent alteration of securities, and electronic and computer
10

crime exposures, which include losses due to transfer, payment, or delivery of funds as a
result of fraudulent input, preparation or modification of computer instructions, data or
fraudulent electronic transmissions or communications. These policies have been made
available to the assigned SEC staff for review and have been deemed “not unacceptable.”
D. Procedures for Identifying and Distributing to Eligible Accountholders
39. The Fund Administrator has committed to use commercially reasonable efforts to identify
and locate eligible current and former shareholders of record:
a. Shareholders will be identified per Rule 17Ad-17 under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934.
b. Current shareholder addresses will be systematically compared against the U.S.
Postal Service’s forwarding address database.
c. Current shareholders who are deemed “Lost” in accordance with Rule 17Ad-17
will not receive payments; instead, their payments will be added to the
Undistributed Pool, described below in paragraph 61.
40. Both current and former shareholders are eligible to receive payments. Shareholders will
not be required to pay fees to receive their distributions. Each eligible shareholder who
suffered losses will receive a single aggregate payment or payments, which essentially
includes net losses, fees paid, interest and a share of the remaining Fair Fund proportional
to their losses.
41. The Fund Administrator will issue and mail checks to all eligible current and former
shareholders who can be identified and located, other than omnibus shareholders.
42. Current shareholders will have the opportunity to reinvest their distribution into those
same funds that gave rise to the distribution without incurring any initial fees or front-end
loads of any sort.
43. All payments shall be preceded or accompanied by a communication that includes, as
appropriate: (a) a statement characterizing the distribution; (b) a description of the tax
information reporting and other related tax matters; (c) a statement that checks will be
void 180 days after issuance; and (d) the name and contact information of a person to
contact, to be used in the event of any questions regarding the distribution. Any
11

communications to recipients or potential recipients of the distribution must be preapproved by the Commission, while other proposed written communications, including,
but not limited to, online communications, letters and emails to intermediary firms must
be pre-approved by the IDC and either the Independent Trustees, a delegated subset of
the Independent Trustees, or independent counsel to the Independent Trustees.
Distribution checks, on their face or in the accompanying mailing, will clearly indicate
that the money is being distributed from a Commission Fair Fund.
44. For returned or undelivered checks, the Fund Administrator will conduct historical
research on the account in an effort to obtain a correct address and re-mail the check. If a
current address cannot be obtained, the payment will be added to the Undistributed Pool.
45. All checks shall bear a stale date of 180 days from the date of issuance. Checks that are
not negotiated within the stale date shall be voided and the issuing financial institution
shall be instructed not to honor these voided checks. These amounts will be added to the
Undistributed Pool.
E. Omnibus Accounts
46. In the case of all omnibus accounts, if the omnibus shareholder of record would receive
less than $1,000 if it were treated as an individual, the omnibus provider has a choice of
either refusing the distribution or applying any distribution technique that the omnibus
provider, in the exercise of its reasonable discretion, deems to be consistent with its
fiduciary, contractual or other legal obligations. 6
47. If an omnibus shareholder of record would receive $1,000 or more if it were treated as an
individual, the shareholder of record has 60 days from the approval of the Distribution
Plan by the Commission to decide among three options: 7
a. Analysis Group will calculate payments to beneficial owners and the Fund
Administrator will execute the distributions based on account data and address
files provided by the holder of record.
6

7

Omnibus accountholders will be informed of the amount due as part of an outreach program conducted
under the supervision of the IDC.
Shareholders of record of transparent omnibus accounts, also known as network accounts, will not be
afforded the option in paragraph 47.c because the Fund Administrator has the necessary account
information to calculate the payments in advance.

12

b. Analysis Group will calculate the payments to beneficial owners, based on
account data and address files provided by the holder of record. Each beneficial
owner who was harmed will receive at least $10. The Fund Administrator will
write a single check to the shareholder of record, but the holder of record will
execute the distributions and certify to the Fund Administrator that such
distribution has been made. If an omnibus provider elects to carry out the
distribution under this subparagraph but fails to distribute the monies to the
beneficial shareholders within the allotted time period or fails to certify that a
distribution has been made in accordance with the calculations provided, the Fund
Administrator will notify the Commission, the omnibus provider will be required
to return the undistributed monies, and the undistributed monies will be added to
the Undistributed Pool.
c. If the omnibus shareholder of record does not select option (a) or option (b)
within 60 days of receipt of notice of the Distribution Plan, the Fund
Administrator will provide the algorithm for calculating the individual payments
to the beneficial owners. The omnibus holder of record will then provide the
Fund Administrator with a certification stating that it will carry out the
calculations described in this subparagraph, is prepared to make the distribution to
the ultimate shareholders according to this Plan of Distribution, and will return
any undistributed funds to the Fund Administrator. 8 Upon the Fund
Administrator’s receipt of the omnibus shareholder’s certification, the distribution
will be made. If the Fund Administrator does not receive a certification, the
monies allotted to that omnibus shareholder will be added to the Undistributed
Pool. The Fund Administrator will maintain records of each attempt to contact an
omnibus holder of record and each response received, if any.
48. Omnibus accounts that choose to have the Fund Administrator carry out all or part of the
distribution to their beneficial owners may incur costs in preparing the necessary data for
the Fund Administrator. Requests for reimbursement from these omnibus account holder
8

As noted in paragraph 22 of this Distribution Plan, the amount of a single distribution to the shareholder of
record may differ from the amount that would be distributed to underlying shareholders if information
regarding the underlying shareholders were known.

13

firms will be paid by the Respondents to the extent that such costs are commercially
reasonable in light of the amount to be distributed by such firms to beneficial
shareholders. All requests for reimbursement are subject to a final review by the IDC and
the Fund Administrator and may be approved, modified or rejected by the IDC.
49. Omnibus account shareholders of record should follow the procedures outlined in the
Distribution Plan to distribute funds to ultimate shareholders. There may be instances,
however, in which this may not be possible, e.g., when an opaque omnibus provider may
not have maintained or cannot reasonably reconstruct account balances, or a transparent
omnibus provider cannot identify or locate the beneficial owners. Omnibus providers
may submit requests to alter the distribution procedures in writing to the Fund
Administrator within 90 days of the mailing of the notice. They should explain (a) the
alteration(s) they plan to employ and (b) the reasons for their request. The IDC will rule
on these requests within 90 days of receipt, but may request additional information from
the provider. If the IDC determines that the proposal would not materially affect the
distribution of funds to the ultimate shareholders, the proposal will be accepted.
Otherwise, the monies that would have otherwise been owed to the omnibus account will
be added to the Undistributed Pool.
50. If an omnibus provider elects to carry out the distribution under paragraph 47.b of the
Plan or is issued monies for distribution under paragraph 47.c of the Plan but fails to
distribute the monies to the beneficial shareholders within the allotted time period, the
Fund Administrator will notify the Commission, the omnibus provider will return the
undistributed monies, and the undistributed monies will be added to the Undistributed
Pool. Omnibus account providers will be required to certify that they have carried out the
calculations in paragraph 47 and are prepared to make the distribution to the ultimate
shareholders according to this Plan of Distribution prior to the distribution of monies to
the omnibus account provider.
F. Retirement Plans
51. "Retirement Plans" as used in this Plan means an employee benefit plan, as such plans are
defined in section 3(3) of ERISA, 29 U.S.C. § 1002(3), which is not an Individual
Retirement Account (IRA), whether or not the plan is subject to Title I of ERISA. Under

14

this Plan, IRAs are treated as direct accounts or omnibus accounts, depending on whether
the IRA is held directly with the Equity Funds or through an intermediary such as a
broker/dealer. Distributions to omnibus IRAs will be made in accordance with Section
VII.E. of this Plan.
52. Assets of Retirement Plans are held in trust by a trustee, and the trust is the legal owner
of the assets. This Plan requires the plan fiduciaries and intermediaries, as defined in 13
Department of Labor Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2006-01, April 19, 2006 (the “Field
Assistance Bulletin”), of Retirement Plans to distribute the monies received in
accordance with their legal, fiduciary, and contractual obligations and consistent with
guidance issued by the Department of Labor, including, but not limited to, the Field
Assistance Bulletin.
53. An intermediary to one or more Retirement Plans may allocate the distribution it receives
pursuant to this Plan among eligible Retirement Plans participating in an omnibus
account administered by such intermediary according to the procedures set forth in
Section VII.E of this Plan or according to the average share or dollar balances of the
Retirement Plans’ investment in the Target, Growth, Opportunity, and Innovation Funds
during the respective periods of timing activity (see paragraph 4, above), provided,
however, that for the purposes of such allocation each Retirement Plan itself (and not the
individual plan participants) shall be treated as the beneficial owner.
54. The fiduciary of a Retirement Plan receiving a distribution may distribute it pursuant to
one of the following four alternatives:
a. Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the distribution to current and former
participants in the Retirement Plan using the methodology referenced in the
Appendix to this Plan. The IDC will make this methodology available to
Retirement Plan fiduciaries.
b. Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the distribution pro rata (based on total
account balance) among the accounts of all persons who are currently participants
in the Retirement Plan (whether or not they are currently employees).

15

c. Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the distribution per capita among the
accounts of all persons who are currently participants in the Retirement Plan
(whether or not they are currently employees)
d. To the extent that none of the three preceding alternatives is administratively
feasible because the costs of effecting the allocation exceed the amount of the
distribution, Retirement Plan fiduciaries may, to the extent permitted by the
Retirement Plan, use the distribution amount to pay the reasonable expenses of
administering the plan.
G. Disbursement Procedures
55. In order to distribute funds, the IDC will submit a redacted list of validated payees and
the payment amounts to the assigned Commission staff, who will obtain authorization
from the Commission to disburse pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6) of the Commission’s Rules
on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1101(b)(6).
56. The payees and amounts will be validated at the IDC’s direction by the Fund
Administrator. The validation will state that the list was compiled in accordance with the
Distribution Plan and provides all information necessary to make disbursement to each
distributee.
57. Unless otherwise directed by the Commission, the Commission staff will obtain an Order
Directing Disbursement that releases funds to the bank account established by the Fund
Administrator based upon the validated list and representation by the Fund Administrator
that the checks or electronic transfers will be issued within the next 5 business days.
58. After the Commission orders disbursement, the Commission staff will direct the Bureau
of Public Debt to transfer into the QSF Account an amount that the IDC shall request to
fund such distribution, and each such distribution (e.g., the mailing of checks) shall, if
reasonably possible, be made within five business days of each such transfer.
59. The funds will be held in the escrow account until presentation of a check or wire. Upon
presentation of a check, the appropriate amount of funds will be transferred to a
controlled distribution account at Deutsche Bank.

16

60. A “positive pay file” will be used for clearing checks at Deutsche Bank and will be
provided to Deutsche Bank separately from the physical checks themselves.10 The
Deutsche Bank will clear only checks matching entries in the positive pay file and for the
amount in the file. For wires, the Fund Administrator will provide Deutsche Bank with
wire transfer instructions signed by both the IDC and an authorized representative of the
Fund Administrator.
H. The Undistributed Pool
61. Monies that are not distributable will be paid to the Equity Funds, or to their successors
in the event of a merger, at the time they are determined to be undistributable. The Funds
shall certify that the amounts received, if any, will be deposited into the Funds’ asset
base. The monies will be distributed to the Funds in such a way that would prevent an
investor to predict the next day’s NAV, i.e., the timing of the distribution to the funds
will not be announced in advance. The distribution of these amounts to the Funds will
not be announced in advance to minimize the possibility of any market timing or other
opportunities related to the Funds.
I. Oversight
62. While the Distribution Plan is being implemented, the Fund Administrator will file with
the Commission an accounting, during the first ten days of each calendar quarter, of the
immediately-preceding calendar quarter, and will submit a final accounting for approval
by the Commission prior to termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the Fund
Administrator.
63. The IDC and the Fund Administrator, and/or each of their designees, agents and assigns,
shall be entitled to rely on any Orders issued in this proceeding by the Commission, its
Secretary by delegated authority, or an Administrative Law Judge, and may not be held
liable to any person other than the Commission or the Fair Fund for any act or omission
in the course of administering the Fair Fund, except upon a finding that such act or
omission is caused by such party’s gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct,
10

Under the positive pay system, the Fund Administrator will submit to Deutsche Bank a file listing all of the
checks issued. Deutsche Bank will match the serial numbers and amounts of checks presented for payment
against this file. Checks that don’t match will be reported back to the Fund Administrator, who will
instruct Deutsche Bank whether to accept or reject them.

17

reckless disregard of duty, or reckless failure to comply with the terms of the Distribution
Plan. This paragraph is an expression of the IDC’s and the Fund Administrator’s
standard of care and is not intended, nor should it be deemed to be, a representation to or
an indemnification of the IDC or the Fund Administrator or their designees, agents and
assigns by the Commission or the Fair Fund, nor should this paragraph preclude the
Commission or the Fair Fund from seeking redress from the IDC or the Fund
Administrator in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Commission.
VIII. Tax Implications of the Distribution
64. The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates as the Tax Administrator (“Tax
Administrator”) of the Fair Fund. See Order Directing Appointment of Tax
Administrator, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11726, Securities Exchange Act Release No.
51341 (March 9, 2005). The IDC, Fund Administrator and Respondents will cooperate
with the Tax Administrator in providing information necessary to accomplish the income
tax compliance, ruling and advice work assigned to the Tax Administrator by the
Commission. The Tax Administrator shall be compensated by Respondents.
65. The Fund Administrator shall authorize Deutsche Bank to provide account information to
the Tax Administrator. The Fund Administrator shall use the assets and earnings of the
Fair Fund to provide the Tax Administrator with assets to pay tax liabilities and tax
compliance fees and costs.
66. This Plan of Distribution does not provide tax advice to parties receiving payments.
Eligible shareholders are advised to consult their own tax advisors. The IRS has
provided guidance on the tax status of distributions, which can be found at
http://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-wd/0702006.pdf.
IX.

Termination of the Fair Fund
67. Prior to the termination of the Fair Fund, the IDC shall cooperate with the Tax
Administrator to make adequate reserves for tax liability and for the costs of tax
compliance. Upon termination, as defined in this paragraph, all undistributed assets
remaining in the Fair Fund, minus any reserves for tax liability and tax compliance costs
shall be distributed to the Growth, Opportunity and Target Funds, and to the Allianz
RCM Global Technology Fund, which is the successor to the Innovation Fund, in
18

accordance with the procedures outlined in paragraph 61, and in proportion to the harm to
shareholders in each Fund.
68. The Fair Fund shall be eligible for termination, and the Fund Administrator shall be
discharged, after all of the following have occurred: (1) a final accounting, in an SEC
standard accounting format provided by the staff, has been submitted by the Fund
Administrator for approval of, and has been approved by, the Commission, (2) all taxes,
fees and expenses have been paid, and (3) any amount remaining in the Fair Fund has
been received by the Commission. When the Commission has approved the final
accounting, the staff shall arrange for the transfer of any amount remaining in the Fair
Fund to the U.S. Treasury, and shall seek an order from the Commission to terminate the
Fair Fund and discharge the Fund Administrator.
69. Except for tax liabilities, which shall be paid according to Rule 1105(e) of the
Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105(e),
Respondents will pay all fees and costs associated with the administration of the
Distribution Plan, including the fees of the Fund Administrator.
70. Subject to paragraph 68, the distribution will be completed as soon as commercially
reasonable after the final approval of this Distribution Plan.
X.

Disputes
71. There will be a limited written dispute process, which will be described on the website.
Disputes will be accepted only for mechanical errors in determining eligibility or
calculating the payment to a recipient. Disputes are to be submitted in writing to the
dispute arbiter, Analysis Group, Inc., within 240 days of the final approval of the
Distribution Plan by the Commission. The dispute arbiter will resolve all disputes within
270 days of final approval of the Distribution Plan. Monies to fund successful disputes
will be taken from the Undistributed Pool. The dispute arbiter will be paid by
Respondents.

19

