SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 69279 / April 2, 2013
Report of Investigation Pursuant to Section 21(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:
Netflix, Inc., and Reed Hastings
I.

Introduction

The Division of Enforcement has investigated whether Netflix, Inc. (“Netflix”)
and its Chief Executive Officer, Reed Hastings (“Hastings”) violated Regulation FD (17
C.F.R. §243.100 et seq.) and Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(“Exchange Act”). The Commission has determined not to pursue an enforcement action
in this matter. The investigation concerned Hastings’s use of his personal Facebook
page, on July 3, 2012, to announce that Netflix had streamed 1 billion hours of content in
the month of June. Neither Hastings nor Netflix had previously used Hastings’s personal
Facebook page to announce company metrics, and Netflix had not previously informed
shareholders that Hastings’s Facebook page would be used to disclose information about
Netflix. The post was not accompanied by a press release, a post on Netflix’s own web
site or Facebook page, or a Form 8-K.
The investigation raised questions regarding: 1) the application of Regulation FD
to Hastings’s post; and 2) the applicability of the Commission’s August 2008 Guidance
on the Use of Company Web Sites 1 to emerging technologies, including social
networking sites, such as Facebook.
Regulation FD and Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act prohibit public companies,
or persons acting on their behalf, from selectively disclosing material, nonpublic
information to certain securities professionals, or shareholders where it is reasonably
foreseeable that they will trade on that information, before it is made available to the
general public. The Commission’s 2008 Guidance explained that for purposes of
complying with Regulation FD, a company makes public disclosure when it distributes
information “through a recognized channel of distribution.”
In its investigation, the SEC staff learned (and some public commentary further
suggested) that there is uncertainty concerning how Regulation FD and the Commission’s
2008 Guidance apply to disclosures made through social media channels. Since the
issuance of the 2008 Guidance, the use of social media has proliferated and the
Commission is aware that public companies are increasingly using social media to
communicate with shareholders and the market generally. The ways in which companies
may use these social media channels, however, are not fundamentally different from the
ways in which the web sites, blogs, and RSS feeds addressed by the 2008 Guidance are
1

Commission Guidance on the Use of Company Web Sites, Release No. 34-58288 (Aug. 7, 2008) (“2008
Guidance”).

1

used. Accordingly, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
issue this Report of Investigation (“Report”) pursuant to Section 21(a) of the Exchange
Act to provide guidance to issuers regarding how Regulation FD and the 2008 Guidance
apply to disclosures made through social media channels. 2
II.
Background of Regulation FD and the 2008 Commission Guidance on the
Use of Company Web Sites
Regulation FD provides that when an issuer, or a person acting on its behalf,
discloses material, nonpublic information to securities market professionals or
shareholders where it is reasonably foreseeable that they will trade on the basis of the
information, it must distribute that information in a manner reasonably designed to
achieve effective broad and non-exclusionary distribution to the public. 3 When the
disclosure of material, nonpublic information is intentional, distribution of the same
information to the public must be made simultaneously. When the disclosure of material,
nonpublic information is inadvertent, distribution of the same information to the public
must be made promptly afterwards. Regulation FD was adopted out of concern that
issuers were selectively “disclosing important nonpublic information, such as advance
warning of earnings results, to securities analysts or selected institutional investors before
making full disclosure of the same information to the general public.” 4 In our previous
statements on Regulation FD, we have recognized that the “regulation does not require
use of a particular method, or establish a ‘one size fits all’ standard for disclosure.” 5 We
did, however, “caution issuers that a deviation from their usual practices for making
public disclosure may affect our judgment as to whether the method they have chosen in
a particular case was reasonable.” 6 We have since encouraged “honest, carefully
considered attempts to comply with Regulation FD.” 7
In August 2008, in response to the changing electronic landscape of issuer
disclosure and the wide-spread use of web sites to disseminate information electronically
2

Section 21(a) of the Exchange Act authorizes the Commission to investigate violations of the federal
securities laws, and, in its discretion, “to publish information concerning any such violations.” This Report
does not constitute an adjudication of any fact or issue addressed herein. The facts discussed in Section III,
infra, are matters of public record or based on documentary records.

3

17 C.F.R. § 243.100. Final Rule: Selective Disclosure and Insider Trading, Exchange Act, Release No.
34-43154, 65 Fed. Reg. 51,716 (Aug. 15, 2000) (the “Adopting Release”). Regulation FD applies
generally to selective disclosures made to persons outside the issuer who are (1) a broker or dealer or
persons associated with a broker or dealer, (2) an investment advisor or persons associated with an
investment advisor, (3) an investment company or persons affiliated with an investment company, or (4) a
holder of the issuer’s securities under circumstances in which it is reasonably foreseeable that the person
will trade in the issuer’s securities on the basis of the information. 17 CFR § 243.100(b)(1).
4

Id., at 51,716.

5

Id., at 51,724.

6

Id.

7

Report of Investigation Pursuant to Section 21(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934: Motorola, Inc.,
Release No. 34-46898 (Nov. 25, 2002).

2

to investors and the market, the Commission issued its 2008 Guidance. 8 As the 2008
Guidance explained, the Commission has “long recognized the vital role of the Internet
and electronic communications in modernizing the disclosure system under the federal
securities laws and in promoting transparency, liquidity and efficiency in our trading
markets.” 9 Additionally, the guidance detailed the many steps we have taken over the
years to encourage the dissemination of information electronically, “as we believe that
widespread access to company information is a key component of our integrated
disclosure scheme, the efficient functioning of the markets, and investor protection.” 10
The Commission has not explicitly addressed the application of Regulation FD
and the 2008 Guidance to disclosures made through social media channels. The 2008
Guidance was directed primarily at the use of issuer web sites as a method of
disseminating information in compliance with Regulation FD. Yet the guidance also
contemplated other “push” technology forms of communication such as email alerts and
RSS feeds, along with “interactive” communication tools such as blogs. 11 In light of the
rapid “development and proliferation of company web sites since 2000” and with the
expectation of “continued technological advances,” the 2008 Guidance was designed to
be flexible and adaptive. 12 Accordingly, the guidance provided issuers with a factorbased framework for analysis, rather than static rules applicable only to web sites.
As explained in the 2008 Guidance, “whether a company’s web site is a
recognized channel of distribution will depend on the steps that the company has taken to
alert the market to its web site and its disclosure practices, as well as the use by investors
and the market of the company’s web site.” 13 The guidance offered a non-exhaustive list
of factors to be considered in evaluating whether a corporate web site constitutes a
recognized channel of distribution. 14 The central focus of this inquiry is whether the
company has made investors, the market, and the media aware of the channels of
distribution it expects to use, so these parties know where to look for disclosures of
material information about the company or what they need to do to be in a position to
receive this information.
III.

Facts

Netflix is an on-line entertainment service that provides movies and television
programming to subscribers by streaming content through the internet and by distributing
DVDs through the mail. Over the last two years, Netflix has stated that it is increasingly
focused on expanding its internet streaming business.
8

2008 Guidance, at 10.

9

Id., at 6.

10

Id., at 7.

11

Id., at 9 n.20, 21, & n.51.

12

Id., at 5.

13

Id., at 18-19.

14

Id., at 20-22.

3

On January 4, 2012, Netflix announced by press release that it had streamed two
billion hours of content in the fourth quarter of 2011. Netflix also featured the two
billion hours streaming metric in the opening paragraph of the January 25, 2012, letter to
shareholders signed by Hastings that accompanied Netflix’s quarterly financial results
included in its earnings release, a copy of which was also furnished on EDGAR on a
Current Report on Form 8-K. During Netflix’s 2011 year-end and fourth quarter earnings
conference call on January 25, 2012, Hastings was asked why this streaming metric was
relevant (since Netflix’s revenues are derived through fixed subscriber fees, not based on
the number of hours of programming viewed). Hastings explained that streaming was “a
measure of an engagement and scale in terms of the adoption of our service and use of
our service. . . . . It [two billion hours streaming in a quarter] is a great milestone for us
to have hit. And like I said, shows widespread adoption and usage of the service.” He
also stated that although he did not anticipate that Netflix would regularly report the
number of hours of streamed content, Netflix would update the metric “on a milestone
basis.”
In an early June posting on Netflix’s official blog, Netflix made a brief reference
to people “enjoying nearly a billion hours per month of movies and TV shows from
Netflix.” The blog was technical in nature, announcing a new content delivery network
available to Internet Service Providers, and there was no further detail given about the
streaming metric. Beyond that, Netflix did not make any milestone announcements
regarding streaming hours between January 25, 2012 and the beginning of July 2012.
On July 3, 2012, just before 11:00 a.m. Eastern time, Hastings posted the
following message on his personal Facebook page:
Congrats to Ted Sarados, and his amazing content licensing team.
Netflix monthly viewing exceeded 1 billion hours for the first time
ever in June. When House of Cards and Arrested Development
debut, we’ll blow these records away. Keep going, Ted, we need
even more!
This announcement represented a nearly 50% increase in streaming hours from Netflix’s
January 25, 2012 announcement that it had streamed 2 billion hours over the preceding
three-month quarter.
Prior to his post, Hastings did not receive input from Netflix’s chief financial
officer, the legal department, or investor relations department. Netflix did not file with or
furnish to the Commission a Current Report on Form 8-K, issue a press release through
its standard distribution channels, or otherwise announce the streaming milestone. Also
on July 3, 2012, and after the Facebook post, Netflix issued a press release announcing
the date of its second quarter 2012 earnings release but did not mention Hastings’s
Facebook post. Netflix’s stock continued a rise that began when the market opened on
July 3, increasing from $70.45 at the time of Hastings’s Facebook post to $81.72 at the
close of the following trading day.
4

The announcement of the streaming milestone reached the securities market
incrementally. The post was picked up by a technology-focused blog about an hour later
and by a handful of news outlets within two hours. Approximately an hour after the post,
Netflix sent it to several reporters, but did not disseminate it to the broader mailing list
normally used for corporate press releases. After the markets closed early at 1:00 p.m.,
several articles in the mainstream financial press picked up the story. Research analysts
also wrote about the streaming milestone, describing the metric as a positive measure of
customer engagement, indicative of a reduction in the rate Netflix is losing customers, or
“churn,” and possibly suggesting that quarterly subscriber numbers would be at the high
end of guidance. 15
Facebook members can subscribe to Hastings’s Facebook page, which had over
200,000 subscribers at the time of the post, including equity research analysts associated
with registered broker-dealers, shareholders, reporters, and bloggers. Neither Hastings
nor Netflix had previously used Hastings’s Facebook page to announce company metrics.
Nor had they taken any steps to make the investing public aware that Hastings’s personal
Facebook page might be used as a medium for communicating information about Netflix.
Instead, Netflix has consistently directed the public to its own Facebook page, Twitter
feed, and blog and to its own web site for information about Netflix. In early December
2012, Hastings stated for the public record that “we [Netflix] don’t currently use
Facebook and other social media to get material information to investors; we usually get
that information out in our extensive investor letters, press releases and SEC filings.”
IV.

Discussion

A fundamental question raised during the staff’s investigation was the application
of Regulation FD and the 2008 Guidance to issuer disclosures through rapidly changing
forms of communication, including social media channels. We do not wish to inhibit the
content, form, or forum of any such disclosure, and we are mindful of placing additional
compliance burdens on issuers. In fact, we encourage companies to seek out new forms
of communication to better connect with shareholders. We also remind issuers that the
analysis of whether Regulation FD was violated is always a facts-and-circumstances
analysis based on the specific context presented.
We take this opportunity to clarify and amplify two points. First, issuer
communications through social media channels require careful Regulation FD analysis
comparable to communications through more traditional channels. Second, the principles
outlined in the 2008 Guidance — and specifically the concept that the investing public
should be alerted to the channels of distribution a company will use to disseminate
material information — apply with equal force to corporate disclosures made through
social media channels.
15

On July 24, 2012, after the close of market, Netflix announced its second quarter earnings, including
quarterly subscriber numbers on the low end of guidance. The stock dropped from the previous day’s close
of $80.39 to $60.28 per share on July 25, 2012.

5

A. Disclosures Triggering Regulation FD
Regulation FD applies when an issuer discloses material, non-public information
to certain enumerated persons, including shareholders and securities professionals. 16 It
prohibits selective disclosure “[w]henever an issuer, or any person acting on its behalf,
discloses any material nonpublic information regarding that issuer to any person
described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.” 17 Although the Regulation FD Adopting
Release highlights the Commission’s special concerns about selective disclosure of
information to favored analysts or investors, the identification of the enumerated persons
within Regulation FD is inclusive, and the prohibition does not turn on an intent or
motive of favoritism. Nor does the rule suggest that disclosure of material, non-public
information to a broader group that includes both enumerated and non-enumerated
persons but that still falls short of a public disclosure negates the applicability of
Regulation FD. On the contrary, the rule makes clear that public disclosure of material,
nonpublic information must be made in a manner that conforms with Regulation FD
whenever such information is disclosed to any group that includes one or more
enumerated persons.
Accordingly, we emphasize for issuers that all disclosures to groups that include
an enumerated person should be analyzed for compliance with Regulation FD.
Specifically, if an issuer makes a disclosure to an enumerated person, including to a
broader group of recipients through a social media channel, the issuer must consider
whether that disclosure implicates Regulation FD. 18 This would include determining
whether the disclosure includes material, nonpublic information. 19 Further, if the issuer
were to elect not to file a Form 8-K, the issuer would need to consider whether the
information was being disseminated in a manner “reasonably designed to provide broad,
non-exclusionary distribution of the information to the public.” 20
B.

Broad, Non-Exclusionary Distribution of Information to the Public

Our 2008 Guidance was directed primarily at the use of corporate web sites for
the disclosure of material, non-public information. Like web sites, corporate social
media pages are created, populated, and updated by the issuer. The 2008 Guidance,
furthermore, specifically identified “push” technologies, such as email alerts and RSS
feeds and “interactive” communication tools, such as blogs, which could enable the
automatic electronic dissemination of information to subscribers. 21 Today’s evolving
social media channels are an extension of these concepts, whereby information can be
16

See supra n.3.

17

17 CFR § 243.100(a) (emphasis added).

18

We reiterate that nothing in Regulation FD is intended to interfere with “legitimate, ordinary-course
business communications” or communications with the press. Adopting Release, 65 Fed. Reg. at 51,718.
19

17 CFR § 243.100(a).

20

17 CFR § 243.100(e)(1)-(2).

21

See supra n.10.

6

disseminated to those with access. Thus, the 2008 Guidance continues to provide a
relevant framework for applying Regulation FD to evolving social media channels of
distribution.
Specifically, in light of the direct and immediate communication from issuers to
investors that is now possible through social media channels, such as Facebook and
Twitter, we expect issuers to examine rigorously the factors indicating whether a
particular channel is a “recognized channel of distribution” for communicating with their
investors. 22 We emphasize for issuers that the steps taken to alert the market about which
forms of communication a company intends to use for the dissemination of material, nonpublic information, including the social media channels that may be used and the types of
information that may be disclosed through these channels, are critical to the fair and
efficient disclosure of information. Without such notice, the investing public would be
forced to keep pace with a changing and expanding universe of potential disclosure
channels, a virtually impossible task.
Providing appropriate notice to investors of the specific channels a company will
use for the dissemination of material, nonpublic information is a sensible and expedient
solution. It is not expected that this step would limit the channels of communication a
company could use after appropriate notice or the opportunity for a company and
investors to benefit from technological innovation and changes in communications
practices. The 2008 Guidance encourages issuers to consider including in periodic
reports and press releases the corporate web site address and disclosures that the
company routinely posts important information on that web site. Similarly, disclosures
on corporate web sites identifying the specific social media channels a company intends
to use for the dissemination of material non-public information would give investors and
the markets the opportunity to take the steps necessary to be in a position to receive
important disclosures — e.g., subscribing, joining, registering, or reviewing that
particular channel. These are some, but certainly not all, of the methods a company could
use, with minimal burden, to enable evolving social media channels of corporate
disclosure to be used as recognized channels of distribution in compliance with
Regulation FD and the 2008 Guidance.
Although every case must be evaluated on its own facts, disclosure of material,
nonpublic information on the personal social media site of an individual corporate
officer, without advance notice to investors that the site may be used for this purpose, is
unlikely to qualify as a method “reasonably designed to provide broad, non-exclusionary
distribution of the information to the public” within the meaning of Regulation FD. 23
This is true even if the individual in question has a large number of subscribers, friends,
or other social media contacts, such that the information is likely to reach a broader
audience over time. Personal social media sites of individuals employed by a public
company would not ordinarily be assumed to be channels through which the company
would disclose material corporate information. Without adequate notice that such a site
22

2008 Guidance, at 20-22.

23

17 CFR § 243.101(e)(2).

7

may be used for this purpose, investors would not have an opportunity to access this
information or, in some cases, would not know of that opportunity, at the same time as
other investors.
V.

Conclusion

There has been a rapid proliferation of social media channels for corporate
communication since the issuance of the Commission’s 2008 Guidance. An increasing
number of public companies are using social media to communicate with their
shareholders and the investing public. We appreciate the value and prevalence of social
media channels in contemporary market communications, and the Commission supports
companies seeking new ways to communicate and engage with shareholders and the
market. This Report is not aimed at inhibiting corporate communication through
evolving social media channels. To the contrary, we seek to remind issuers that
disclosures to persons enumerated in Regulation FD, even if made through evolving
social media channels, must still be analyzed for compliance with Regulation FD.
Moreover, we emphasize that the Commission’s 2008 Guidance, though largely focused
on the use of web sites, is equally applicable to current and evolving social media
channels of corporate communication. The 2008 Guidance explained that issuers must
take steps sufficient to alert investors and the market to the channels it will use for the
dissemination of material, nonpublic information. We believe that adherence to this
guidance will help, with minimal burden, to assure compliance with Regulation FD and
the fair and efficient operation of the market.
By the Commission.

8

