UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 67920 / September 24, 2012
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15045

In the Matter of
DAVID MURA,
Respondent.

ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-ANDDESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT
TO SECTIONS 15(b) AND 21C OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be,
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against David Mura (“Respondent” or “Mura”).
II.
After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that:
A.

SUMMARY

1.
Mura violated Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act by acting as an
unregistered broker-dealer in connection with his solicitation of investors in promissory
notes (the “LLC Promissory Notes”) issued by several small, related New York Limited
Liability Companies (the “LLCs”) located in Pittsford, New York.
2.
While Mura engaged in these solicitation efforts, he was a registered
representative and branch office manager of J.P. Turner & Company, LLC (“J.P. Turner”),
a broker-dealer registered with the Commission. Despite his association with J.P. Turner,
Mura conducted the offering of the LLC Promissory Notes outside the scope of his
employment with J.P. Turner, in violation of Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act.

3.
Mura also directed Edward Tackaberry (“Tackaberry”), who worked
for the LLCs under Mura’s supervision, and an investor in an LLC Promissory Note
(“Investor 1”) to solicit potential investors and to otherwise participate in the offering of the
LLC Promissory Notes. Tackaberry and Investor 1 both followed Mura’s instruction, and
several individuals who were solicited by Tackaberry and/or Investor 1 eventually invested
in the LLC Promissory Notes. Through these actions, Tackaberry and Investor 1 violated
Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act, and Mura aided, abetted and caused Tackaberry’s and
Investor 1’s violations of Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act.
B.

RESPONDENT

1.
Mura is 62 years old and a resident of Pittsford, New York. From
September 2002 through April 2011, Mura was a registered representative and branch
office manager of J.P. Turner, a registered broker-dealer headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.
From in or around mid-2007 through in or around 2012, Mura led a team of individuals
that managed the LLCs, and directed, and participated in, an effort to solicit investors in the
LLC Promissory Notes. During this time, no offerings of securities issued by the LLCs
were registered with the Commission in any capacity.
C.

OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS

1.
Rising Storm Technologies LLC (“Rising Storm”), a predecessor to
the LLCs, was formed in 2006 to pursue various business ideas. Mura invested in Rising
Storm and, in or around 2008, caused the LLCs to take over some or all of Rising Storm’s
business ideas.
2.
The LLCs consist of, inter alia, Charge-On Demand LLC,
Innovations Group Enterprises LLC, and Stucco LLC, all of which were registered with the
New York Secretary of State in 2008. The LLCs were formed to pursue several
supposedly entrepreneurial business ideas. The LLCs, which were all managed by the
same small management team led by Mura, issued the LLC Promissory Notes to a number
of investors from in or around January 2008 through in or around September 2009.
3.
Edward Tackaberry, age 60, is a resident of Fairport, New York.
From 1981 through 2006, Tackaberry was a registered representative of various brokerdealers. In September 2007, Tackaberry was barred from association with any broker or
dealer based on permanent injunctions imposed by a federal district court upon finding, in a
case brought by the Commission, that he committed securities fraud in a scheme that did
not involve the LLCs. (In the Matter of Mark Palazzo and Edward Tackaberry, Admin.
Proc. File No. 3-12844, Exchange Act Release No. 56550A (September 27, 2007); SEC v.
Pittsford Capital Income Partners, L.L.C., 06 Civ. 6353 T(P) (W.D.N.Y. Aug. 30, 2007)).
Tackaberry began working for Rising Storm in 2006 as a product salesman, and at Mura’s
direction, thereafter became involved in the solicitation of investors and otherwise
participated in the offering of the LLC Promissory Notes.

2

D.

ALLEGATIONS

1.
From September 2002 through April 2011, Mura was a registered
representative and branch office manager of J.P. Turner. In or around 2006, Mura became
familiar with Rising Storm when he leased to Rising Storm vacant office space that was
adjacent to Mura’s J.P. Turner office. Mura and two or more of his retail broker-dealer
customers at J.P. Turner invested in Rising Storm.
2.
In 2008, Mura formed, or caused to be formed, the LLCs, for the
purpose of commercializing several of Rising Storm’s most promising business ideas and
to pursue various, purportedly entrepreneurial, business ideas of their own. Shortly
thereafter, Mura ousted the founder of Rising Storm, who also participated in the
management of the LLCs, and installed his own management team to help run the LLCs.
Mura accomplished this ouster through, among other things, threats of violence and death
against the founder of Rising Storm. Mura oversaw all important decisions and exercised
ultimate managerial control over the LLCs from approximately 2008 through 2012.
3.
From in or around January 2008 through September 2009, Mura
solicited a number of individuals to invest in the LLCs. More specifically, Mura led
meetings with potential investors in the LLCs during which he made many oral
representations regarding the LLCs and their operations, what an investment in the LLCs
would involve and how it would be documented, and encouraged potential investors to
invest in the LLCs by purchasing the LLC Promissory Notes, which are securities under
the federal securities laws. No private placement memoranda or other comprehensive
offering materials were prepared or distributed to potential investors in connection with the
offering. Mura told most, or all, of the prospective investors that he worked full-time as a
financial professional and was a registered representative of J.P. Turner.
4.
Mura also directed others to solicit potential investors in the LLC
Promissory Notes. For example, after Investor 1 invested in an LLC Promissory Note,
Mura encouraged him to solicit other investors, and Mura agreed that the LLCs would pay
Investor 1 a finder’s fee of 7.5% of all investments made by Investor 1’s friends and
family. Several individuals identified by Investor 1 decided to, and did, invest in the LLC
Promissory Notes after discussing the potential investment with Investor 1, Mura, and
others. Mura also directed Tackaberry to become involved in the solicitation of investors
in the LLCs. Tackaberry did so by serving as several prospective investors’ first contact at
the LLCs, describing the investments and how they would be documented, arranging
meetings with Mura and other members of the LLCs’ management team to discuss the
LLCs and the potential investment, negotiating the terms of investment with some of the
investors, and documenting several investment transactions.
5.
During the relevant period, in exchange for their investments,
investors received LLC Promissory Notes, the offering of which was not registered with
the Commission. The LLC Promissory Notes obligated the issuing LLC to repay the
principal in twenty-four months plus 8% interest per annum. The LLC Promissory Notes
also entitled the investors to “further consideration” consisting of a stated percentage of the

3

issuing LLC’s profits. In almost all cases, the LLC Promissory Notes were issued by just
one of the LLCs, although the specific LLC issuing a given promissory note changed over
time. The LLCs did not make interest payments to the investors, contrary to the terms of
the LLC Promissory Notes.
6.
In or around 2010, Mura persuaded most investors to exchange their
purported interests in the LLCs for an interest in Worldwide Medical LLC (“Worldwide
Medical”). Worldwide Medical does not have significant assets or revenues, and the
investors’ interests in Worldwide Medical are worth far less than the principal they initially
invested in the LLC Promissory Notes.
7.
In the aggregate, at least seventeen individuals invested over
$850,000 in Rising Storm and the LLCs between July 2007 and September 2009. Mura
played an active role in soliciting approximately $765,000 from approximately twelve of
these investors after he took over the LLCs. At least seven of these twelve investors
invested all, or a significant portion of, their qualified retirement accounts in the LLCs.
8.
Mura caused investor funds to be deposited into the LLCs’ bank
accounts, over which Mura and his wife had authority, and against which Mura and his
wife regularly issued checks. Mura caused the LLCs to pay him more than $50,000 from
June 2008 through December 2009. These payments were made with funds that had been
received from investors.
9.
Mura conducted the LLC Promissory Note offering outside the
scope of his employment with J.P. Turner. Mura did not place the LLC Promissory Notes
in J.P. Turner accounts on behalf of the investors, and did not disclose to J.P. Turner his
solicitation of these investments or the scope of his managerial role at the LLCs. Nor did
Mura separately register as a broker-dealer for purposes of offering and selling the LLC
Promissory Notes. Moreover, Mura repeatedly misled J.P. Turner about his outside
business activities.
E.

VIOLATIONS

1.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully
violated Section 15(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, which makes it unlawful for any broker or
dealer which is either a person other than a natural person or a natural person not associated
with a broker or dealer which is a person other than a natural person (other than such a
broker or dealer whose business is exclusively intrastate and who does not make use of any
facility of a national securities exchange) to make use of the mails or any means or
instrumentality of interstate commerce to effect any transactions in, or to induce or attempt
to induce the purchase or sale of, any security (other than an exempted security or
commercial paper, bankers’ acceptances, or commercial bills) unless such broker or dealer
is registered in accordance with Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act.

4

2.
As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent willfully
aided, abetted and caused Tackaberry’s and Investor 1’s violations of Section 15(a)(1) of
the Exchange Act.
III.
In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine:
A.
Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in
connection therewith, to afford Respondent an opportunity to establish any defenses to such
allegations; and
B.
What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against
Respondent pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act including, but not limited to,
disgorgement, and civil penalties pursuant to Section 21B of the Exchange Act.
C.
Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent should
be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations or future violations of
Section 15(a) of the Exchange Act; whether Respondent should be ordered to pay
disgorgement pursuant to Section 21C(e) of the Exchange Act and penalties pursuant to
Section 21B(a)(2) of the Exchange Act; and whether other appropriate relief should be
granted in the public interest.
IV.
IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by
Rule 220 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.
If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after
being duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be
determined against him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310.
This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent personally or by certified
mail.

5

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.
In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter,
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice. Since this proceeding is
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any
final Commission action.
By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

6

