Corrected to conform to Federal Register Version
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 240
Release No. 34-69964; File No. S7-30-11
RIN 3235-AL19
Retail Foreign Exchange Transactions
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Final rule.
SUMMARY: The Commission is adopting a rule to permit a registered broker-dealer to engage
in a retail forex business, provided that the broker-dealer complies with the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the self-regulatory
organization(s) of which the broker-dealer is a member insofar as they are applicable to retail
forex transactions. The Commission is adopting Rule 15b12-1 substantially in the form
previously adopted as an interim final temporary rule and is providing that the rule will expire on
July 31, 2016.
DATES: This rule is effective from July 16, 2013 through July 31, 2016.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Catherine Moore, Senior Special Counsel;
Shaheen Haji Zuver, Special Counsel; or Stephen J. Benham, Attorney-Adviser, at (202) 5515550 or Division of Trading and Markets, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549-7010.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is adopting Rule 15b12-1 under the
Exchange Act, to permit a registered broker or dealer (“broker-dealer”) to engage in retail forex

transactions, as such transactions are defined below. Unless the Commission acts further, the
rule will expire and no longer be effective on July 31, 2016.
I.

BACKGROUND
A.

Retail Foreign Exchange

The foreign currency exchange (“forex”) market is a large and liquid market used by
banks, insurance companies, large corporations, and other large financial institutions to trade in
risks associated with fluctuations in foreign currency rates. In recent years, a secondary offexchange market for forex has developed for retail customers. 1 Many customers may view forex
as a possible investment opportunity or portfolio risk management strategy. However, the
Commission, its staff, 2 and other regulatory authorities 3 have cautioned investors that the forex
market poses risks for retail customers.
The regulatory oversight of the retail forex market has developed primarily through a
series of amendments to the Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”). 4 Transactions commonly
referred to as “retail forex transactions” are foreign exchange transactions with persons who are

1

See, e.g., FINRA Regulatory Notice 08-66 (Retail Foreign Currency Exchange)
(November 2008) available at:
http://www.finra.org/web/groups/industry/@ip/@reg/@notice/documents/notices/p11736
2.pdf (“FINRA Forex Notice”).

2

See Investor Bulletin: Foreign Currency Exchange (Forex) Trading for Individual
Investors (July 2011), available at http://www.sec.gov/investor/alerts/forextrading.pdf
(“Forex Bulletin”). See also Retail Foreign Exchange Transactions, Exchange Act
Release No. 64874 (July 13, 2011), 76 FR 41676 (July 15, 2011) (“2011 Interim Rule
Release”) at 41677 (noting that media reports have highlighted potential abuses).

3

See, e.g., Press Release, Commodities Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”), CFTC
Releases Final Rules Regarding Retail Forex Transactions (Aug. 30, 2010) (available at
http://www.cftc.gov/PressRoom/PressReleases/pr5883-10.html?dbk) (noting that retail
forex is the largest area of retail fraud that the CFTC oversees).

4

See Regulation of Off-Exchange Retail Foreign Exchange Transactions and
Intermediaries, 75 FR 3282 (Jan. 20, 2010) (“CFTC Proposing Release”) for a detailed
discussion by the CFTC of the amendments to the CEA regarding retail forex.
2

retail customers (persons who are not eligible contract participants (“ECPs”) as defined in the
CEA) and that settle on a T+3 or greater timeline. 5 Significantly, certain types of transactions
are not ‘‘retail forex transactions” under the CEA, even where one of the counterparties is a
person that is not an ECP. These transactions include: (i) “spot forex transactions” where one
currency is bought for another and the two currencies are exchanged within two days; (ii)
forward contracts that create an enforceable obligation to make or take delivery, provided that
each counterparty has the ability to deliver and accept delivery in connection with its line of
business; and (iii) options that are executed or traded on a national securities exchange registered
pursuant to section 6(a) of the Exchange Act. 6 In addition, and as discussed in more detail
below, conversion trades – trades in which a foreign exchange transaction facilitates the
settlement of a foreign security transaction – are spot forex transactions and, therefore, are
outside the scope of the CEA prohibition and this rulemaking. 7
Only certain regulated entities may act as counterparty to foreign exchange transactions. 8
These approved entities include Futures Commission Merchants (“FCMs”), Retail Foreign
Exchange Dealers (“RFEDs”) registered with the CFTC, banks, and insurance companies, as
well as broker-dealers registered with the Commission.
The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”)
further amended the CEA to limit potential abuses in the retail forex market by prohibiting retail
forex transactions as of July 16, 2011, in the absence of a rulemaking permitting retail forex
5

See 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B)(i).

6

See 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(I).

7

See Further Definition of “Swap,” “Security-Based Swap,” and “Security/Based Swap
Agreement”; Mixed Swaps; Security/Based Swap Agreement Recordkeeping; Final Rule,
Exchange Act Release No. 67453 (July 18, 2012), 77 FR 48207 (Aug. 13, 2012)
(“Products Definitions Release”).

8

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B)(i).
3

transactions by the relevant Federal regulatory agency. The prohibition in the CEA applies to
retail forex transactions with registered broker-dealers, and the Commission adopted an Interim
Final Temporary Rule on July 13, 2011 (“Interim Rule”), to allow retail forex transactions with
broker-dealers under terms and conditions prescribed by the Commission. 9
B.

Amendments to the Commodity Exchange Act

As amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, 10 the CEA provides that a person for which there is
a Federal regulatory agency, 11 including a broker-dealer registered under section 15(b) (except
pursuant to paragraph (11) thereof) or 15C of the Exchange Act, 12 shall not enter into, or offer to
enter into, a transaction described in section 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(I) of the CEA with a person who is not
an ECP, 13 except pursuant to a rule or regulation of a Federal regulatory agency allowing the

9

See 2011 Interim Rule Release. See also Extension of Interim Final Temporary Rule on
Retail Foreign Exchange Transactions, Exchange Act Release No. 67405 (July 11, 2012),
77 FR 41671 (July 16, 2012) (“2012 Extension Release”).

10

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E).

11

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E)(i), as amended by § 742(c) of the Dodd-Frank Act, defines a “Federal
regulatory agency” to mean the CFTC, the Securities and Exchange Commission, an
appropriate Federal banking agency (as defined in section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q))), the National Credit Union Association, and the Farm
Credit Administration.

12

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(II).

13

“Eligible contract participant” is defined in CEA section 1a(18), as re-designated and
amended by section 721 of the Dodd-Frank Act. See Public Law 111-203, § 721
(amending CEA section 1a). The CEA’s definition of ECP generally comprises regulated
persons; entities that meet a specified total asset test (e.g., a corporation, partnership,
proprietorship, organization, trust, or other entity with total assets exceeding $10 million
subject to certain restrictions) or an alternative monetary test coupled with a nonmonetary component (e.g., a corporation, partnership, proprietorship, organization, trust,
or other entity with a net worth in excess of $1 million and enters into an agreement,
contract, or transaction in connection with the conduct of the entity’s business or to
manage the risk associated with an asset or liability owned or incurred or reasonably
likely to be owned or incurred by the entity in the conduct of the entity’s business);
certain employee benefit plans, the investment decisions of which are made by one of
four enumerated types of regulated entities; and certain governmental entities and
individuals that meet defined thresholds. The Commission and the CFTC adopted rules
4

transaction under such terms and conditions as the Federal regulatory agency shall prescribe
(“retail forex rule”). 14 An individual can qualify as an ECP if the individual has aggregate
amounts invested on a discretionary basis of more than $10 million or more than $5 million if
such individual enters into the transaction in order to manage the risk associated with an asset
owned or liability incurred, or reasonably likely to be owned or incurred by such individual. 15
Transactions described in CEA section 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(I) include “an agreement, contract, or
transaction in foreign currency that ... is a contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery (or
an option on such a contract) or an option (other than an option executed or traded on a national
securities exchange registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(15 U.S.C. 78f(a)).” 16 A Federal regulatory agency’s retail forex rule must treat all agreements,
contracts, and transactions in foreign currency described in CEA section 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(I) and all
agreements, contracts, and transactions in foreign currency that are functionally or economically
similar to agreements, contracts, or transactions described in CEA section 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(I),
under the CEA that further define “eligible contract participant” with respect to
transactions with major swap participants, swap dealers, major security-based swap
participants, security-based swap dealers, and commodity pools. See Exchange Act
Release No. 66868 (Apr. 27, 2012), 77 FR 30596 (May 23, 2012).
14

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I). As used in this release, “retail forex rule” refers to any rule
proposed or adopted by a Federal regulatory agency pursuant to section 742(c)(2) of the
Dodd-Frank Act. On September 10, 2010, the CFTC adopted a retail forex rule for
persons subject to its jurisdiction. See Regulation of Off-Exchange Retail Foreign
Exchange Transactions and Intermediaries, 75 FR 55410 (September 10, 2010) (“CFTC
Final Rule”). The CFTC had proposed its rules regarding retail forex transactions prior to
the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act. See CFTC Proposing Release. The Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
(“OCC”), and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Board”) have
adopted similar rules. See Retail Foreign Exchange Transactions, 76 FR 40779 (July 12,
2011) (“FDIC Final Rule”); Retail Foreign Exchange Transactions, 76 FR 41375 (July
14, 2011) (“OCC Final Rule”); and Retail Foreign Exchange Transactions, 78 FR 21019
(April 9, 2013) (“Board Final Rule”).

15

7 U.S.C. 1a(18)(A)(xi).

16

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(I).
5

similarly. 17 Any retail forex rule also must prescribe appropriate requirements with respect to
disclosure, recordkeeping, capital and margin, reporting, business conduct, and documentation,
and may include such other standards or requirements as the Federal regulatory agency
determines to be necessary. 18
This amendment to the CEA took effect on July 16, 2011. 19 As of that date, brokerdealers, including broker-dealers also registered with the CFTC as FCMs (“BD-FCMs”), 20 for
which the Commission is the Federal regulatory agency could no longer engage in retail forex
transactions except pursuant to a rule adopted by the Commission. 21
C.

The Interim Rule

On July 13, 2011, the Commission adopted the Interim Rule (Rule 15b12-1T), which
allows a registered broker-dealer to continue to engage in, or enter into, a retail forex business
until July 16, 2012, provided that the broker-dealer complies with the Exchange Act, the rules
and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the self-regulatory organization(s) (“SRO”) of which
the broker-dealer is a member, insofar as they are applicable to retail forex transactions. 22 The
Interim Rule was designed to provide an opportunity for the public to submit comments
17

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E)(iii)(II).

18

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E)(iii)(I).

19

See Public Law 111-203, § 754.

20

See 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(II)(cc), 2(c)(2)(C)(i)(I)(aa) and 2(c)(2)(E). Congress expressly
provided that the CFTC has jurisdiction over an FCM’s retail foreign exchange activities
only if the FCM is not also a registered broker-dealer.

21

See 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(II) and 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I). This prohibition does not
apply to (1) forex transactions with a customer who qualifies as an ECP, or (2)
transactions that are spot forex contracts or forward forex contracts irrespective of
whether the customer is an ECP. However, consistent with other Federal regulatory
agencies’ retail forex rules, Rule 15b12-1 applies to “rolling spot” transactions in foreign
currency by broker-dealers. See section II.A. below for a description of rolling spot
transactions.

22

See 2011 Interim Rule Release.
6

regarding broker-dealer practices in this area, which would inform the Commission’s
consideration of what additional rules may be necessary to address investor protection concerns,
including abusive sales practices, volatility, and riskiness of the forex market as they affected the
regulatory treatment of retail forex transactions by broker-dealers. We explained at the time that
our action was also intended to preserve potentially beneficial market activity that, for example,
may serve to minimize a retail customer’s exposure to the risk of changes in foreign currency
rates in connection with the customer’s purchase or sale of a security. We also described
potentially abusive practices, such as lack of disclosure about fees and forex pricing and
insufficient capital or margin requirements, and requested comment on these practices and
whether there are any steps we should take to seek to prevent them in the 2011 Interim Rule
Release. 23 In July 2012, the Commission extended the Interim Rule to July 16, 2013. 24
D.

Interpretation regarding “Conversion Trades”

The Interim Rule was intended, in part, to address concerns that broker-dealers would be
precluded from entering into foreign exchange transactions on behalf of retail customers in order
to facilitate the customer’s purchase or sale of a security listed on a foreign exchange and
denominated in a foreign currency (“conversion trades”). 25 Subsequent to the initial adoption

23

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41684. The Commission’s Office of Investor
Education and Advocacy published an Investor Bulletin providing information about
retail forex investing, including information about the risks involved in that type of
trading. See Forex Bulletin. The CFTC and the North American Securities
Administrators Association also have published an alert regarding risks of fraud in
foreign exchange markets. See Foreign Exchange Currency Fraud: CFTC/NASAA
Investor Alert, available at
http://www.cftc.gov/ConsumerProtection/FraudAwarenessPrevention/ForeignCurrencyTr
ading/cftcnasaaforexalert.

24

See 2012 Extension Release.

25

See Memorandum from P. Georgia Bullitt, Morgan Lewis, on Pershing LLC – Proposed
Relief regarding transactions in Retail Foreign Exchange to James Brigagliano et al.
7

and most recent extension of the Interim Rule, in August 2012, the CFTC issued an
interpretation in a joint rulemaking with the Commission that conversion trades are not a form of
retail forex transaction subject to the prohibition under the CEA. 26 Under this interpretation,
broker-dealers are permitted to engage in conversion trades without a rulemaking by the
Commission and the level of broker-dealer foreign exchange activity subject to the prohibition in
section 2(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I) of the CEA (and this rulemaking) is significantly reduced.
Although the CFTC interpretation excludes conversion trades from the definition of retail
forex, hedging and speculative trading in foreign currency (other than bona fide spot
transactions 27) are still within the scope of the definition. Broker-dealers, including BD-FCMs,
are therefore prohibited from engaging in such trades absent a Commission rule.

(June 17, 2011) (available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/other/otherinitiatives/otherinitiatives-56.pdf).
26

See Products Definitions Release. For purposes of the interpretation, a conversion trade
is a transaction for the purchase or sale of an amount of foreign currency equal to the
price of a foreign security with respect to which (i) the security and related foreign
currency transactions are executed contemporaneously in order to effect delivery by the
relevant securities settlement deadline and (ii) the actual delivery of both the foreign
currency and securities occurs by the deadline.

27

See Products Definitions Release at 48257. The Commission and the CFTC consider a
foreign exchange transaction that is entered into solely to effect the purchase or sale of a
foreign security to be a bona fide spot transaction where certain conditions are met.
8

E.

Comments

The Commission received 20 comments on the Interim Rule. 28 Sixteen comment letters
were received on the Interim Rule after it was adopted in 2011. Four comment letters (from only
two commenters) were received following the extension of the Interim Rule in 2012. To provide
a broad overview of both investor and industry reaction to the Interim Rule, all of the comments
received are addressed below.
Nine commenters asked the Commission to preserve their ability to engage in retail forex
transactions. 29 Another group of commenters urged the Commission to adopt a final rule based
on the approach followed in the Interim Rule. 30 These commenters maintained that it is in the

28

The comments are available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-30-11/s73011.shtml.

29

See email comments from Raul Gonzalez, dated July 17, 2011, James Peck, dated July
17, 2011, Bob Flowers, dated July 17, 2011, James M. Beatty, dated July 17, 2011,
Angela Li, dated July 17, 2011, Mark A. McDonnell, dated July 21, 2011, Mark Smith,
dated July 23, 2011, John Baur, dated July 27, 2011, and Ronald Covington, dated
October 23, 2011.

30

See Letter from Kenneth E. Bentsen, Jr., Executive Vice President Public Policy and
Advocacy, SIFMA and Robert Pickel, Executive Vice Chairman, ISDA, to Elizabeth
Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated October 17, 2011 (“SIFMA/ISDA Letter”). See
also Memorandum from SIFMA and ISDA to Marc Menchel, Gary Goldsholle, Matthew
Vitek, Rudy Verra, Glen Garofalo, FINRA, dated February 23, 2012. These commenters
requested that the Commission clarify that the Commission’s rule, together with FINRA
regulation, would exclusively govern the retail foreign exchange activity of all brokerdealers, including BD-FCMs. The Commission notes that the rule being adopted, Rule
15b12-1, by its terms applies in the context of retail forex transactions but does not alter
the requirement to comply with applicable Commission rules or other rules in other
contexts. These commenters also requested that the Commission, in consultation with the
CFTC, provide a safe-harbor to broker-dealers that would apply in the event that the
status of a customer that is a natural person (including their investment vehicles and
family offices) changes from that of a retail customer when a foreign exchange
transaction is first entered into with the broker-dealer, including a BD-FCM, to that of an
ECP, because of fluctuations in net assets, a change in market prices or other factors.
However, given that interpretations regarding what constitutes a retail forex transaction
are under the CEA and therefore subject to the jurisdiction of the CFTC and not the
Commission, these commenters may wish to consider addressing this request to the
CFTC.
9

best interest of retail customers to have the opportunity to conduct forex activity as part of their
broader investing activity, through their broker-dealers, with the assistance of personnel with
forex expertise.
One group of commenters limited their comments to conversion trades and, as discussed
above, asked the CFTC and other Federal regulatory agencies (including the Commission), to
take the view that conversion trades are not prohibited for purposes of section 2(c) of the CEA. 31
As noted above, the CFTC has issued an interpretation that conversion trades are not retail forex
transactions subject to the prohibition under the CEA.
One commenter stated that the Commission should rescind the rule and allow the
statutory ban to take effect or, in the alternative, limit the scope of the rule to a narrowly defined
class of forex transactions, specifically hedging and the facilitation of settlement of foreign
securities. 32 The commenter further stated that in initially adopting the Interim Rule, the
Commission did not provide notice of and opportunity for comment on the rule, and did not
include a concrete assessment or quantification of the need for the relief granted by the rule. As
discussed throughout this release, the Commission does not believe it would be appropriate at
31

See Letter from Phoebe A. Papageorgiou, Senior Counsel, American Bankers
Association and James Kemp, Managing Director, Global Foreign Exchange Division, to
Thomas J. Curry, Comptroller, OCC, Robert E. Feldman, Executive Secretary, FDIC,
Jennifer J. Johnson, Secretary, the Board, David Stanwick, Secretary, CFTC, and
Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated April 18, 2012 (“ABA/GFMA Letter”).
See also SIFMA/ISDA Letter. SIFMA and ISDA requested that the Commission amend
the definition of “retail forex business” in section (a) of Rule 15b12-1T in order to make
clear that conversion trade transactions would be permitted under the Interim Rule, which
is no longer necessary as a result of the CFTC’s interpretation.

32

See Letter from Dennis M. Kelleher, President and CEO, and Stephen W. Hall, Securities
Specialist, Better Markets, Inc. to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated
September 12, 2011 (“Better Markets Letter”). We understand the commenter’s
reference to transactions entered into to facilitate the settlement of foreign securities to
mean the conversion trades discussed above that are no longer subject to the statutory
prohibition.
10

this time to ban retail forex transactions or otherwise limit the scope of permissible transactions
by broker-dealers. Such a ban or limitation may prohibit legitimate activities such as hedging or
other transactions and, among other factors discussed below, the Commission has not obtained
sufficient information to indicate that such restrictions are warranted. In addition, the final rule
we are adopting today is being adopted after notice and comment in response to the 2011 Interim
Rule Release and the 2012 Extension Release.
Three comment letters provided the Commission with data on retail forex activity. One
of the commenters provided data, based on a sampling of five broker-dealers for an unknown
year, showing that those members engaged in $550 million per month (principal) of over-thecounter currency forwards, currency options and rolling spot transactions with non-ECPs and
$1.2 billion per month of conversion trades. 33
The second comment letter provided data on the returns of retail forex accounts at certain
FCMs and RFEDs, and offered suggestions for additional disclosure and business conduct
requirements (such as suitability standards), and identified areas concerning regulation and
market activities in the context of retail forex transactions that the commenter believed warrants
further monitoring. 34 We agree with the commenter’s suggestion that further monitoring of retail
forex transactions is warranted. While the Commission has determined to adopt Rule 15b12-1
for the reasons discussed throughout this release, we believe it is appropriate to give additional
consideration to the suggestions provided by the commenter. We are including in Rule 15b12-1
33

See Letter from Kenneth E. Bentsen, Jr., Executive Vice President Public Policy and
Advocacy, SIFMA, dated July 10, 2012 (“SIFMA Letter”).

34

See Letter from Justin Hughes, CFA and Managing Member, Philadelphia Financial
Management of San Francisco to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated
August 2, 2011 (“Philadelphia Financial Letter”). The commenter’s suggestions for
additional regulation included limiting the product to only accredited investors,
establishing order handling rules as well as limiting leverage and account churning.
11

a provision providing that the rule will expire on July 31, 2016 to permit additional time for the
Commission to assess the market for retail forex (including recent regulatory developments
discussed below) and potentially develop more targeted rules for retail forex or to consider any
rules that an SRO may propose regarding its members’ retail forex activities. The commenter
also suggested that currency exchange-traded funds (“currency ETFs”) would provide an
alternative means for effectively hedging against currency risk. 35
A third comment letter from a representative of another commenter provided 2010 data
from a small sampling of large broker-dealers with an estimated notional value of foreign
exchange conversion trades of $13.55 billion and an estimated notional value of foreign
exchange non-conversion trades of $1.43 billion, although these values included transactions
with both ECPs and non-ECPs. 36
Following the extension of the Interim Rule in July 2012, the Commission received four
additional comment letters from two commenters. 37 One commenter requested that brokerdealers be allowed to continue to engage in, or enter into, a retail forex business. This
commenter argued that broker-dealers should be permitted to conduct retail forex to offer their
retail clients a full suite of investment options and to facilitate hedging of transactions in foreign

35

See Philadelphia Financial Letter. See also Better Markets Letter. See also supra section
III.E. for a discussion of potential alternatives to retail forex transactions, including
currency exchange traded products (“ETPs”).

36

See letter from P. Georgia Bullitt, Michael A. Piracci and F. Mindy Lo, Morgan Lewis to
Joseph Furey, Bonnie L. Gauch and Adam Yonce, Commission, dated July 28, 2011
(“Morgan Lewis Letter”). This commenter provided data from five large-broker dealers,
but, only some of the broker-dealers provided information for every type of transaction
cited in the letter.

37

See email comments from Ernest J. Guevara III, dated November 16, 2012 (this comment
does not appear to be related to the Interim Rule), and Brad Georges of Greeneye
Management, dated December 19, 2012 (“Greeneye Comment Email”) February 28,
2013 (“Second Greeneye Comment Email”), and April 17, 2013.
12

stocks. 38 This commenter also noted that broker-dealers have risk management and customer
suitability practices in place to monitor their activities not only in stocks but also in options and
stated that retail forex activities should be able to be conducted within broker-dealers and subject
to regulatory oversight by the Commission. In a separate communication, this commenter
reiterated that the Commission should allow active trading and hedging of spot forex under the
same guidelines as active trading of stocks and options. 39 The commenter asserted that brokers
should be able to set their own margins, taking into account the currency, the client, and the
market conditions. 40
As noted above, and as discussed in more detail below, the Commission believes it is
appropriate at this time to allow broker-dealers to continue engaging in retail forex transactions
subject to existing restrictions under Commission and FINRA rules while any additional
requirements for retail forex are considered in order to retain existing options for retail investors
to access the foreign exchange markets. This approach is consistent with the approach contained
in the Interim Rule and with the recommendations of most commenters; however, the
Commission is adopting Rule 15b12-1 with a provision providing that the rule will expire on
July 31, 2016. This provides an additional opportunity for the Commission to assess the market
for retail forex and determine whether to issue more targeted rules for retail forex, to consider
any rules that an SRO may develop regarding its members’ retail forex activities, to consider
whether to take action to extend the rule, or have the rule expire.
To that end, Commission staff will consult with FINRA periodically to discuss and obtain
additional information about the retail forex marketplace, such as information regarding new
38

See Greeneye Comment Email.

39

See Second Greeneye Comment Email.

40

See id.
13

FINRA member applications identifying retail forex business and any rules that FINRA may
consider regarding its members’ retail forex activities. Commission staff will also periodically
consult with other regulatory agencies, including the CFTC and banking regulators, to discuss
the retail forex marketplace and identify potential areas and instances of abuse, as well as the
ways that retail investors have benefited or been harmed. In addition, the Commission will
consider any relevant information obtained during standard broker-dealer examinations.
II.

DISCUSSION
Taking into consideration all of the comments received, the Commission believes it is

appropriate at this time to allow broker-dealers to continue to engage in retail forex transactions
subject to existing requirements under Commission and FINRA rules while any additional
requirements for retail forex are considered in order to retain existing options for retail investors
to access the foreign exchange markets.
The Commission is adopting Rule 15b12-1 with the same terms and conditions as the
Interim Rule in order to permit broker-dealers to continue to engage in a retail forex business
under the framework of the Exchange Act for the time period specified in the rule. The final rule
requires that broker-dealers comply with existing obligations under the Exchange Act, the rules
and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the SRO of which the broker-dealer is a member. 41
As discussed in more detail below, the final rule meets the requirements in Section 2(c)(2)(E)(iii)
of the CEA that the rule treat all agreements, contracts, and transactions in foreign currency
described in CEA section 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(I) and all agreements, contracts, and transactions in
foreign currency that are functionally or economically similar to agreements, contracts, or
41

Broker-dealers engaging in conversion trades are not subject to the rule as a result of the
CFTC’s interpretation to exclude conversion trades from retail forex, but they remain
subject to the Commission’s antifraud authority, including Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5,
under the Exchange Act when engaging in these trades.
14

transactions described in CEA section 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(I), similarly, and that the rule prescribes
appropriate requirements with respect to disclosure, recordkeeping, capital and margin,
reporting, business conduct, and documentation by requiring that broker-dealers engaged in a
retail forex business comply with the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the
rules of the SRO of which the broker-dealer is a member. 42
The CFTC’s interpretation regarding conversion trades that was issued following the
extension of the Interim Rule has significantly narrowed the scope of retail forex transactions
subject to a Commission rule. While we have only limited information on the level of retail
forex activity conducted by broker-dealers, we received information from one commenter
asserting that, based on a sampling of a small number of large broker-dealers, a substantial
majority of foreign exchange transactions engaged in by these broker-dealers are conversion
trades. 43 Given the clarification regarding the exclusion of conversion trades from the scope of
retail forex transactions, we believe that the scope of transactions that are currently considered to
be retail forex transactions, and thus subject to the Commission’s rule, is much more limited than
what the Commission anticipated in the Interim Rule.
Conversion trades were the focus of many of the comments received on the Interim Rule
and the CFTC’s interpretation was not issued until after the Commission had extended the
interim temporary final rule. Given the recent modified scope of retail forex transactions to
exclude conversion trades and the limited comments received on issues related to non-conversion
trades, we believe it is appropriate to provide additional time for the Commission to focus its
review on the current scope of activities that are included in retail forex transactions prior to
considering any tailored rules for broker-dealers engaging in a retail forex business.
42

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E)(iii).

43

See Morgan Lewis letter.
15

The CFTC has also adopted rules that contain requirements specific to retail forex
transactions including disclosure requirements, net capital requirements and haircut deductions
depending on the currency pair, security deposit requirements and profitability reporting. 44
Moreover, other regulatory agencies 45 have also adopted rules that are similar to the CFTC’s
rule, including the Board which very recently adopted final rules related to retail forex
transactions. 46 These new requirements may have an impact on the how the retail forex market
functions. The rule the Commission is adopting today differs from the rules adopted by the
CFTC and other regulatory agencies as it does not contain the specific requirements tailored to
the retail forex transactions referenced above. While the Commission has determined to adopt
Rule 15b12-1 for the reasons discussed throughout this release including the relatively limited
level of retail forex activity engaged in by broker-dealers and the existing framework of legal
obligations, including SRO rules applicable to broker-dealers, the Commission anticipates the
three-year sunset provision will provide it with additional time to assess further the market for
retail forex (including any changes based on recent regulatory actions) and consider whether to
develop more targeted rules for retail forex, to consider any rules that an SRO may develop
regarding its members’ retail forex activities, to consider whether to take action to extend the
rule, or have the rule expire.
With respect to SRO rules, the Commission notes that FINRA has previously proposed a
rule to establish leverage limitations with respect to retail forex 47 and that the National Futures

44

See CFTC Final Rule.

45

See FDIC Final Rule, OCC Final Rule, and Board Final Rule.

46

See Board Final Rule.

47

FINRA proposed a rule in 2009 to establish a leverage limitation for retail forex. See
Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change as Modified by Amendment No. 2 to Adopt
FINRA Rule 2380 to Limit the Leverage Ratio Offered by Broker-Dealers for Certain
16

Association (NFA) has in place rules governing retail forex activities. 48 The Commission
understands that FINRA plans to continue to consider rules related to retail forex transactions
taking into account the regulatory framework developed by other regulators. The Commission
expects to evaluate possible future actions during the sunset period in light of developments in
the retail forex market, as well as the Commission’s and SROs’ experiences with retail forex
activity pursuant to this rule.
The Commission has previously cautioned investors about risks in the foreign exchange
market generally, and highlighted certain key risks for investors, including the lack of a central
marketplace for retail forex, uncertainty about transaction costs, and the possibility for investors
to lose more than their original investment. 49 Commission staff also has cautioned investors that
many forex traders employ leverage as a means of amplifying their returns and higher leverage,
in the form of a small margin requirement, can result in large losses if prices move in an
unfavorable direction. 50 The Commission stated in the 2011 Interim Rule Release that
insufficient capital or margin requirements could result in costs to the market associated with the

Forex Transactions, Exchange Act Release No. 61090 (Dec. 1, 2009), 74 FR 64776 (Dec.
8, 2009).
48

See e.g. NFA Compliance Rule 2-36. Requirements for Forex Transactions, NFA
Compliance Rule 2-39. Soliciting, Introducing, or Managing Off-Exchange Retail Forex
Transactions or Account, and NFA Financial Requirement Section 11. Forex Dealer
Member Financial Requirements. The NFA rules that are relevant to retail forex
transactions can be found at http://www.nfa.futures.org/NFA-compliance/NFA-futurescommission-merchants/forex.HTML.

49

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41677, noting media reports of potentially abusive
practices and concerns expressed by other regulators with respect to the retail forex
practices of the entities they regulate. See also Forex Bulletin. Commission staff also
cautioned investors that there had been allegations of fraud by the Commission and the
CFTC in cases involving foreign exchange investment schemes. Id.

50

See Forex Bulletin.
17

inefficient provision of retail forex services. 51 Although no instances of abuse with respect to
retail forex involving broker-dealers were raised in the comment letters, 52 the Commission
remains concerned about risks in the retail forex market and the potential harm to investors if
abusive practices, including misleading advertising or sales practices, are employed. 53 We are,
however, mindful that retail forex transactions may be used for hedging and gaining direct
exposures to the foreign currency markets, which may be appropriate for retail investors through
broker-dealers with the protections available to investors under existing Commission and SRO
oversight. We are also sensitive to the fact that the statutory prohibition applies to BD-FCMs in
the absence of Commission rules but does not apply to FCMs that are not dually registered and
are permitted to engage in retail forex transactions pursuant to the CFTC’s rules. Accordingly,
the failure to adopt a rule permitting BD-FCMs to continue to conduct retail forex could affect
investors who have an account at a BD-FCM and would need to open a new account with a
different intermediary in order to continue to conduct retail forex transactions.
The sunset provision for the expiration of the rule is designed to provide the Commission
with a reasonable period of time to consider further whether additional requirements for brokerdealers engaging in a retail forex business may be appropriate while avoiding any disruption or
unintended consequences to broker-dealers and their customers if the statutory prohibition were
to go into effect. The Commission believes that a three-year sunset, as opposed to a shorter
period, is appropriate because a shorter time frame may fail to provide adequate time to reflect
51

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41684.

52

The Better Markets Letter and Philadelphia Financial Letter refer generally to widespread
abuses in the retail forex market, but do not cite specific instances of abuse involving
intermediaries that are broker-dealers. See Better Markets Letter and Philadelphia
Financial Letter.

53

The Commission encourages any person who is aware of abusive practices or other
misconduct in the retail forex market to report those activities to the Commission.
18

on any developments in the retail forex market and then engage in any subsequent steps involved
in any rulemaking process, such as the proposal and adoption of new rules before the expiration
of Rule 15b12-1. Moreover, a longer time period may be unnecessary because the Commission
should have sufficient time to consider and take any action prior to the expiration of the sunset
provision. As an alternative, the Commission could adopt a final rule without a sunset provision
or allow the temporary rule to lapse without adopting any final rule. 54 We believe, however, that
in light of the CFTC’s interpretation regarding conversion trades in the context of the retail forex
market, as well as comments received both in support of and against final Commission rules to
permit broker-dealers to engage in retail forex transactions, the arguments raised warrant further
consideration. Although one commenter argued that Congress intended the ban on retail forex to
go into effect, 55 we note that Congress specifically authorized the Commission and other Federal
regulatory agencies to permit their regulated entities to engage in retail forex transactions by
taking regulatory action the agencies determined was appropriate. 56 Furthermore, in addition to
the Commission’s Interim Rule, the CFTC and bank regulatory agencies have all adopted final
rules to permit their regulated entities to engage in retail forex transactions. 57 The Commission
will also consider any new information obtained with respect to the retail forex market, including
54

One commenter stated that exchange listed currency ETFs, which as exchange-traded
products are outside the scope of retail forex, provide an alternative to retail forex for
hedging purposes and could give investors a greater return at a lower cost. See
Philadelphia Financial Letter. See also the discussion of ETFs in the Economic Analysis
section of this release. Other commenters, however, argue that investors should be
allowed to engage in retail forex transactions with broker-dealers and that the current
regulatory framework offers sufficient protections. See Greeneye Comment Email and
SIFMA/ISDA Letter.

55

See Better Markets Letter. Another commenter argued that retail forex transactions are
essentially gambling and should be regulated and taxed as such. See Philadelphia
Financial Letter.

56

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I) and (iii)(I).

57

See supra note 14. See also supra note 45.
19

any evidence of abusive practices or misconduct by BD-FCMs, prior to the expiration of the
sunset period to determine whether additional limitations or action may be warranted. Any new
requirements could be imposed either through Commission or SRO rules.
The rule we are adopting today, Rule 15b12-1, has the same terms and conditions as the
Interim Rule that was adopted in 2011 and extended in 2012, except with respect to the
expiration date of the rule as specified in paragraph (d) of the rule. Broker-dealers will continue
to be required to comply with existing Exchange Act and SRO rules as they are applicable to
retail forex transactions. We believe that the same reasons behind the adoption of the Interim
Rule in 2011 and its extension in 2012 and discussed throughout this release continue to apply to
the retail forex rule we are adopting today. 58
A.

Rule 15b12-1(a): Definitions

Rule 15b12-1(a) sets forth the definitions used in the rule, 59 which have not changed
since the Commission adopted the Interim Rule in 2011. 60 Many of the definitions have the
same meaning as in the Exchange Act. 61 These terms and definitions were selected because their
meanings are readily understood in the industry. Other terms, such as “retail forex business” and
“retail forex transaction,” are substantially similar to terms in the OCC, FDIC, and Board final
rules. 62

58

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41678 for a discussion of the rationale for adoption of
the Interim Rule. See also 2012 Extension Release.

59

Rule 15b12-1(a).

60

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41678-79 for a discussion of these definitions.

61

These include the definition of broker, dealer, person, registered broker or dealer, and
self-regulatory organization. See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41677.

62

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41677-78 for a discussion of these definitions.
20

As we noted in the 2011 Interim Rule Release, the definition of retail forex transaction is
based on the CEA and incorporates the terms described in CEA sections 2(c)(2)(B) and
2(c)(2)(C). 63 In addition, the definition is substantially the same as the definitions in the FDIC
Final Rule, the OCC Final Rule, and the Board Final Rule. 64 Further, we noted in the 2011
Interim Rule Release that the definition of retail forex transaction has at least two important
features. First, certain transactions in foreign currency are excluded from the definition,
including spot transactions, contracts of sale that create an enforceable obligation to deliver
between a buyer and seller that have the ability to deliver and accept delivery, respectively, in
connection with their line of business, and forex transactions executed or traded on an exchange
or designated contract market. 65 As we discussed previously, the exclusion for spot transactions
was significantly expanded after the CFTC issued an interpretation, following the Commission’s
extension of the Interim Rule, that conversion trades are considered to be spot transactions and
are therefore outside the scope of retail forex. 66
The second important feature of the definition is that a “rolling spot” forex transaction
(also known as a Zelener contract), 67 is not excluded from the definition as a spot transaction.
Although a rolling spot forex transaction normally requires delivery of currency within two days,
in practice these contracts are indefinitely renewed every other day and no currency is actually

63

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(B) and 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(C).

64

See FDIC Final Rule at 40781, OCC Final Rule at 41376-41377, and Board Final Rule at
21020-21021.

65

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41678-79.

66

See supra note 27.

67

See CFTC v. Zelener, 373 F.3d 861 (7th Cir. 2004); see also CFTC v. Erskine, 512 F.3d
309 (6th Cir. 2008) (discussing Zelener contracts).
21

delivered until one party affirmatively closes out the position. 68 The Commission believes that a
contract with a retail customer for a rolling spot forex transaction is economically more similar
to a retail forex future, as described in CEA section 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(I), than a spot forex contract. 69
This interpretation is consistent with the approach of other Federal regulatory agencies acting
pursuant to section 742 of the Dodd-Frank Act to treat all agreements, contracts, and transactions
in foreign currency described in CEA section 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(I) and all agreements, contracts, and
transactions in foreign currency that are functionally or economically similar to agreements,
contracts, or transactions described in CEA section 2(c)(2)(B)(i)(I), similarly. 70
The Commission received comments from two groups of commenters on the definitions
included in section (a) suggesting that the Commission amend terms to clarify that conversion
trades should not be regulated. 71 As discussed above, these comments both requested changes
that are no longer necessary in light of the CFTC’s interpretation regarding conversion trades. 72
B.

Rule 15b12-1(b): Broker-dealers Engaged in a Retail Forex Business

Rule 15b12-1(b) requires that a broker-dealer comply with the Exchange Act, the rules
and regulations thereunder, and the rules of the SROs of which the broker-dealer is a member,
insofar as they are applicable to retail forex transactions. 73 These include rules related to the
requirements of rules and regulations for retail forex in Section 2(c)(E)(iii)(I) of the CEA, 74
68

See 2011 Interim Rule Release, note 34, at 41679. See also CFTC Proposing Release at
3284-3285 for a discussion of Zelener contracts and the CFTC’s regulation of these
contracts.

69

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41679.

70

See supra note 14.

71

See SIFMA/ISDA Letter and ABA/GFMA Letter.

72

See supra note 31.

73

Rule 15b12-1(b).

74

7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(iii)(I).
22

including but not limited to rules for disclosure, recordkeeping (or documentation), capital and
margin, reporting, and business conduct. 75 The Commission initially adopted this section (b) in
the same form in 2011 and the rationale for our adoption of this section has not changed.
Provided below are examples of obligations also discussed in the 2011 Interim Rule
Release, including certain SRO requirements, relating to disclosure, recordkeeping (or
documentation), capital and margin, reporting, and business conduct that are applicable to
broker-dealers’ retail forex transactions.
Disclosure Requirements
Broker-dealers that engage in a retail forex business must comply with the disclosure
requirements in NASD Rule 2210. 76 NASD Rule 2210 requires all communications with the
public by members of FINRA – including forex-related communications – to be based on
principles of fair dealing and good faith, to be fair and balanced, and to provide a sound basis for
evaluating the facts regarding the market generally and a customer’s specific transaction. 77
NASD Rule 2210 further prohibits broker-dealers from making “any false, exaggerated,
unwarranted, or misleading statement or claim in any communication with the public.”
Recordkeeping Requirements
Exchange Act Rules 17a-3 and 17a-4 require a broker-dealer to make, keep current, and
preserve records regarding its business. For example, Exchange Act Rule 17a-3(a)(2) requires a
broker-dealer to make and keep current a general ledger, which provides details relating to all

75

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41679-81 for a discussion of some of the Exchange Act
and SRO rules that are applicable to broker-dealer retail forex transactions.

76

See FINRA Forex Notice.

77

See id.
23

assets, liabilities, income and expense and capital accounts, which could include entries related
to retail forex.
Net Capital and Margin Requirements
Each broker-dealer must comply with Exchange Act Rule 15c3-1, which prescribes
minimum regulatory net capital requirements for broker-dealers. The Commission notes that,
under Exchange Act Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(iv), any unsecured receivable arising from a retail forex
transaction must be deducted when computing the broker-dealer’s net capital. 78 The provisions
of the net capital rule dealing with contractual commitment charges under Rule 15c3-1(c)(2)(viii)
also apply to commitments with respect to foreign currency. Generally, broker-dealer margin
requirements are set by Regulation T 79 and SRO rules. 80
Reporting Requirements
A broker-dealer is required to file with the Commission periodic financial and operational
reports (e.g., annual audited financial statements and periodic FOCUS Reports), as prescribed by
Exchange Act Rule 17a-5, that may include relevant information regarding a broker-dealer’s
retail forex business, if any. 81 In addition, FINRA has advised its member firms that a broker-

78

17 CFR 240.15c3-1(c)(2)(iv).

79

12 CFR 220.

80

See supra note 47.

81

Retail forex data may factor into a broker-dealer’s financial reports; however, the
presentation of such data on these reports would be aggregated with other financial data
associated with the broker-dealer’s activities and would not be specifically identified as
relating to retail forex. See, e.g., Form X-17A-5, 17 CFR 249.617. In addition, FINRA
Rule 4524 requires broker-dealers to file supplemental FOCUS information, including
information about commissions attributable to foreign exchange products in the
supplemental statement of income (“SSOI”) and information about the gross amount of
all foreign exchange forward transactions in the supplemental schedule for derivatives
and other off-balance sheet items (“OBS”). See Exchange Act Release No. 66364
(February 9, 2012), 77 FR 8938 (February 15, 2012), and Exchange Act Release No.
24

dealer’s expansion of its business to include retail forex transactions constitutes a material
change in business operations pursuant to NASD Rule 1017(a), and a broker-dealer must first
apply for and receive approval from FINRA to conduct this activity. 82 Additionally, Exchange
Act Rule 17a-8 requires a broker-dealer to report to the U.S. Treasury Department’s Financial
Crimes Enforcement Network certain enumerated types of transactions, including suspicious
transactions in foreign currencies and foreign currency futures and options. 83
Business Conduct Requirements
In the course of complying with certain Exchange Act requirements, rules and regulations
thereunder, and SRO rules relating to business conduct, broker-dealers must address their retail
forex business. 84 For example, FINRA Rule 2010 (formerly NASD Rule 2110), which requires
broker-dealers, in the conduct of their business, to observe high standards of commercial honor
and just and equitable principles of trade, applies to all of a broker-dealer’s business, including

68832 (February 5, 2013), 78 FR 9754 (February 11, 2013) (Commission orders
approving the SSOI and OBS, respectively).
82

See FINRA Forex Notice.

83

See Exchange Act Release No. 18321 (Dec. 10, 1981); 46 FR 61454 (Dec. 17, 1981); see
also FINRA Rule 3310 (formerly NASD Rule 3011) (requiring FINRA member firms to
establish and implement policies and procedures that can be reasonably expected to
detect and cause the reporting of suspicious transactions). As FINRA noted, “FINRA
member firms engaging in retail forex activities should ensure their Anti-Money
Laundering Program addresses the risks associated with the business and includes
procedures for monitoring, detecting, and reporting suspicious transactions associated
with their retail forex activities.” See FINRA Forex Notice.

84

The suitability requirement under FINRA Rule 2111 requires, in part, that a broker-dealer
or associated person “have a reasonable basis to believe that a recommended transaction
or investment strategy involving a security or securities is suitable for the customer,
based on the information obtained through the reasonable diligence of the [firm] or
associated person to ascertain the customer’s investment profile.” This requirement
would generally not apply in the context of a retail forex transaction unless it is part of a
recommended investment strategy that also involves a security.
25

its retail forex business. 85 FINRA has stated that to comply with FINRA Rule 2010, a member
firm must adequately disclose to its retail customers that the firm is acting as a counterparty to a
transaction, the risks associated with forex trading, and the risks and terms of leveraged
trading. 86 Broker-dealers also need to address retail forex transactions in connection with the
customer reserve bank account requirements under Exchange Act Rule 15c3-3. In calculating
what amount, if any, a broker-dealer must deposit on behalf of its customers in a reserve bank
account pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 15c3-3(e), the broker-dealer must use the formula set
forth in Exchange Act Rule 15c3-3a.
As we noted in the Interim Rule Release, these examples are not inclusive of all
regulatory requirements administered by the Commission that must be complied with by a
broker-dealer engaging in a retail forex business. 87 The Commission does not intend to suggest
that other provisions, rules and regulations, including antifraud provisions and SRO rules, may
not apply to broker-dealers’ retail forex business.
While the Commission did not receive any comments that directly addressed Rule 15b121(b), it received comments that set forth recommendations for potential regulations that could
apply to broker-dealers’ retail forex businesses. 88 As discussed above, the Commission believes
it is appropriate to give additional consideration to the recommendations provided by all of the
commenters and is adopting the rule to permit additional time for the Commission to assess the
market for retail forex and potentially develop more targeted rules for retail forex and to consider
any rules that an SRO may propose regarding its members’ retail forex activities.
85

See FINRA Forex Notice.

86

Id.

87

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41681.

88

See Philadelphia Financial Letter and Second Greeneye Comment Email. See also supra
note 34.
26

C.

Rule 15b12-1(c): Broker-dealers Deemed to be Acting Pursuant to a
Commission Rule

Rule 15b12-1(c) provides that any registered broker or dealer that engages in a retail
forex business in compliance with paragraph (b) of the rule on or after the effective date of the
rule will be deemed, until the expiration date specified in paragraph (d) of the rule, to be acting
pursuant to a rule or regulation described in CEA section 2(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I), as amended by section
742 of the Dodd-Frank Act. 89 The Commission adopted this section (c) in the same form in
2011 and did not receive any comments that addressed this section.
D.

Rule 15b12-1(d): Expiration

Rule 15b12-1(d) contains the expiration date of the rule. 90 The Commission is revising
this paragraph of the rule to extend the expiration date to July 31, 2016. As discussed above, this
revision to paragraph (d) will allow the rule to continue to apply while the Commission considers
whether any additional requirements are necessary with respect to broker-dealer’s retail forex
activities. The Commission will also consider other possible alternative actions, including
whether Rule 15b12-1 should be proposed, without a sunset provision, in its current form. The
Commission will also consider whether the rule should be allowed to expire without further
Commission action after the effective period ends.
III.

ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
A.

Introduction

Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act requires the Commission to consider or determine
whether an action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and to consider, in addition to
the protection of investors, whether the action would promote efficiency, competition, and
89

Rule 15b12-1(c).

90

Rule 15b12-1(d).
27

capital formation whenever it engages in rulemaking under the Exchange Act. 91 In addition,
Section 23(a)(2) of the Exchange Act requires the Commission, when making rules under the
Exchange Act, to consider the impact such rules would have on competition. 92 Section 23(a)(2)
of the Exchange Act prohibits the Commission from adopting any rule that would impose a
burden on competition not necessary or appropriate to further the purposes of the Exchange
Act. 93
Many of the benefits and costs discussed below are difficult to quantify. For example,
we believe that a key benefit to the adoption of Rule 15b12-1 is the prevention of inefficient
disruptions in retail customers’ access to foreign exchange markets. However, in the absence of
current data on investor participation in the retail forex market, the magnitude of these
inefficiencies is difficult to estimate. Specifically, if the alternative to conducting retail forex
through a broker is to open an account with an FCM, then an estimate of the aggregate costs
associated with the necessary account transfers would likely require information about the
number of customer accounts that would be affected and the notional value of retail forex
activity in those accounts.
Similarly, as discussed below, we recognize that investors who choose to use exchangetraded products to hedge currency risk will face the risk that a hedging instrument does not
perfectly replicate the exposure to be hedged. While we might be able to estimate the quantity of
basis risk for a particular position, a measure of the economic significance of this basis risk
across the investor base to which a prohibition on retail forex would apply requires information
about the foreign currency exposures that retail customers might seek to hedge. Although one
91

See 15 U.S.C. 78c(f).

92

See 15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2).

93

See id.
28

comment letter provided some data on the scope of the market, 94 the Commission does not have
sufficient data about retail forex participation to produce precise estimates of the aggregate
economic effects of adopting Rule 15b12-1 and possible alternatives to this rulemaking. As a
result, much of the discussion on costs and benefits that follows is qualitative in nature.
However, where possible, the Commission has attempted to quantify some economic effects.
We understand that under the current regulatory regime, retail customers typically enter
into foreign exchange transactions with broker-dealers for a number of reasons. Industry
participants have informed us that the most common foreign exchange transactions are
conversion trades, in which a currency trade is made in connection with a foreign securities
transaction. These are excluded from the scope of retail forex transactions and thus from the
Commission’s rule as discussed above. 95 Based on data one commenter provided from a small
sampling of larger broker-dealers, in terms of notional amount, foreign exchange conversion
trades would account for approximately 90% of foreign exchange transactions conducted
through broker-dealers, and 99% of all broker-dealer customer accounts are involved in
conversion trades, though not all trades within an account may be conversion trades. 96

94

See Morgan Lewis Letter which provides some estimate on the overall scope of the retail
forex market. See also supra section I.E. for a discussion of this comment letter.

95

See Morgan Lewis Letter. As explained above, the ABA/GFMA Letter requested from
the CFTC an interpretation that excluded conversion trades from the prohibition under
CEA section 2.

96

See Morgan Lewis Letter, which provided data from five large-broker dealers, but, only
some of the broker-dealers provided information for every type of transaction that is cited
in the letter. The data included a sampling of five large broker-dealer firms for forex data
during the calendar year 2010 (or in one firm’s case, June 2010 through June 2011)
showing that the estimated aggregate notional value of conversion trades for the firms
that provided data for the year was $13.55 billion while the estimated aggregate notional
value of non-conversion trades was $1.43 billion. The data also showed that the
estimated annual number of accounts involved in conversion trades for the time period
was 17,600 and the number of non-conversion accounts was 187. See id.
29

Commenters have also conveyed to us that retail customers often enter into forex transactions
with broker-dealers as part of a hedging strategy. For instance, retail customers may engage in
forex transactions through broker-dealers in order to hedge currency risk in securities or in a
portfolio held in the customer’s brokerage account. They may also engage in these transactions
in order to obtain exposure to foreign markets as part of their overall investment strategy. 97
Congress prohibited the retail forex transactions described in CEA section 2(c) except
pursuant to rules adopted by the relevant Federal regulatory agencies allowing the transactions.
As we noted in the 2011 Interim Rule Release, some of these transactions, such as hedging
transactions may be beneficial to investors as they provide a mechanism for mitigating risks. 98
At the same time, the Commission is aware of potentially abusive practices that can occur in the
retail forex market. Such practices may include, for example, misleading or lack of disclosure
about fees and forex pricing, or misleading advertising directed to retail investors. 99
As discussed above, on April 18, 2012, a group of commenters asked the CFTC to take
the view that forex transactions that are solely incidental to, and are initiated for the sole purpose
of, permitting a client to complete a transaction in a foreign security, through conversion trades
would not be subject to the retail forex prohibition under section 2 of the CEA. 100 In August
2012, the CFTC issued an interpretation in a joint rulemaking with the Commission that clarifies
that conversion trades are not retail forex transactions subject to the prohibition under the CEA.
This interpretation permits broker-dealers to engage in conversion trades without a rulemaking

97

SIFMA/ISDA Letter at 4, Annex A at 1 – 2.

98

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41684.

99

See id.

100

See ABA/GFMA Letter.
30

by the Commission. It also significantly reduces the level of broker-dealer foreign exchange
activity that is subject to the prohibition in section 2(c) of the CEA and thus to the final rule. 101
Although the CFTC interpretation excludes conversion trades from the definition of retail
forex, hedging and speculative trading in foreign currency (other than bona fide spot
transactions) continue to fall within the scope of the definition. Broker-dealers and BD-FCMs
are therefore prohibited from engaging in such retail forex activities absent a Commission rule
allowing them to do so.
Adopting Rule 15b12-1 will maintain the regulatory framework that currently exists for
broker-dealers under the Interim Rule, and will not create new regulatory obligations.
Furthermore, the rule will preserve the ability of broker-dealers to provide, among other services,
hedging to retail customers while the Commission considers what further steps to take, if any.
The Commission previously considered and discussed its economic analysis of Rule
15b12-1T. 102 When the Commission initially adopted the Interim Rule in 2011, we solicited
comment on the economic analysis and received one comment that addressed the economic
analysis. 103 We adopted Rule 15b12-1T on an interim final basis to allow the existing regulatory
framework for retail forex transactions to continue for a defined period, to avoid potentially
unintended consequences from broker-dealers immediately discontinuing their retail forex
business, and to provide the Commission time to consider the appropriate regulatory framework

101

This is in contrast to the estimated level of broker-dealer foreign exchange activity that
was understood to exist when the Commission initially acted to adopt the Interim Rule in
2011 and when it extended the Interim Rule in 2012.

102

For a detailed description of the costs and benefits of Rule 15b12-1T, see 2011 Interim
Rule Release at 41684.

103

See Better Markets Letter.
31

regarding retail forex transactions. 104 Furthermore, parties who commented on the rule asked the
Commission to preserve the ability of investors to engage in retail forex transactions through
their broker-dealers. 105 In July 2012, the Commission extended the effective date of the Interim
Rule to July 16, 2013 and received four comments (from two commenters) on the extension,
none of which addressed the economic analysis in the 2012 Extension Release. 106
B.

Economic Baseline

The baseline for our economic analysis of the rule is the state of the retail forex market in
existence today after the adoption of the Interim Rule and its extension, in which broker-dealers
and BD-FCMs are permitted to conduct retail forex transactions in compliance with the existing
federal securities laws and the rules of an SRO of which the broker-dealer or BD-FCM is a
member. As is indicated in the discussion of economic effects and potential alternatives that
follows, estimates of the economic impacts of this rule crucially depend on current participation
in retail forex, both aggregate notional amounts and risk exposures to different foreign
currencies. Broker-dealers are not required to report the foreign currency exposure of their retail
clients and commenters did not provide data on the foreign currency exposure of their retail
clients. Accordingly, the Commission only has limited data on the level of participation in the
retail forex market. However, we have some information regarding the current size of the retail
forex market and the use of foreign exchange instruments by retail investors from comment

104

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41683. As noted above, as of the time the Commission
adopted the Interim Rule and extended it, the CFTC had not issued its interpretation that
conversation trades were not retail forex transactions.

105

Fourteen of sixteen commenters were in favor of the rule and supported the ability of
broker-dealers to conduct retail forex transactions. See, e.g. SIFMA/ISDA Letter.

106

See supra note 37.
32

letters and other research. 107 In attempting to evaluate and confirm the estimates of the size of
the broker-dealer retail forex market, which as noted above included conversion trades that now
are excluded from the definition of retail forex, the Commission also looked at information from
the Bank of International Settlements (BIS). This information indicates a recent increase in retail
participation in forex markets. 108 Though BIS did not separately compute statistics for the subset
of activity defined as retail forex by the CEA, nevertheless this may provide an indication of a
general trend spanning both retail forex and foreign exchange transactions by retail customers
that falls outside the definition of retail forex.
In addition, as mentioned above, one commenter provided data on participation in forex
markets taken from a small sampling of large broker-dealers. According to this commenter, in
terms of notional amount, foreign exchange conversion trades account for approximately 90% of
all foreign exchange transactions (including transactions with both ECPs and non-ECPs)
conducted by these broker-dealers. 109 This supports the premise that a large portion of foreign
exchange activity flowing through broker-dealers falls outside of the scope of retail forex.
Further, 99% of all broker-dealer customer accounts in this sample were involved in conversion
trades. However, not all foreign exchange transactions engaged in by retail customers were
conversion trades. The same commenter estimated transactions with a notional value of $550
million per month in currency forwards, options and rolling spot with non-ECPs. 110
Accordingly, while conversion trades might comprise the bulk of foreign exchange transactions
107

See e.g. Morgan Lewis Letter and Philadelphia Financial Letter.

108

See King, Michael and Dagfinn Rime. “The $4 trillion question: what explains FX
growth since the 2007 survey?” BIS Quarterly Review, December, 2010 (attributing
increased foreign exchange turnover to retail investor participation, facilitated by
electronic execution platforms).

109

See SIFMA Letter.

110

See id.
33

engaged in by retail investors, their participation in other forms of foreign exchange transactions
that fall within the scope of retail forex may be significant.
C.

Benefits

Rule 15b12-1 is designed to preserve retail customers’ access to the forex markets
through broker-dealers and thus promote efficiency by, for example, permitting retail customers
to continue to enter into forex transactions in connection with trades in foreign securities, as part
of their brokerage activities until such time as Rule 15b12-1 expires by its terms or the
Commission takes further regulatory action in this area. In the absence of Rule 15b12-1, brokerdealers would be required to exit certain types of retail forex business, which could require retail
customers to engage in forex transactions through an FCM that is not dually registered as a
broker-dealer or other service provider which could be economically inefficient. 111 In particular,
to the extent that access to the forex markets through broker-dealers provides hedging
opportunities for foreign investments, economic benefits may accrue to retail customers.
Furthermore, by continuing to preserve a channel for broker-dealers’ retail customers to access
forex transactions through broker-dealers, the adoption of the final rule will continue to prevent
any loss of competition in the retail forex market that could result if broker-dealers or BD-FCMs
were required to exit the business. Adopting the rule also avoids potentially unintended
consequences from broker-dealers immediately discontinuing their retail forex business,
including costs or inefficiencies that may result if retail customers have to open new accounts

111

Establishing an account with an FCM may not bear a monetary cost, however, a deposit
of several thousand dollars is frequently required to maintain an open account. A
customer could experience increased costs from maintaining separate deposit minimums
for securities and commodities accounts. In addition, other costs may also apply, such as
resources associated with transferring accounts.
34

with FCMs that are not BD-FCMs or with other entities in order to trade in retail forex or seek to
trade in products that may perform as substitutes to retail forex, such as currency ETPs.
The adoption of the rule would not necessarily promote competition between brokerdealers and the other regulated intermediaries because broker-dealers would continue to offer
retail forex services under Rule 15b12-1 which imposes requirements that already apply to
broker-dealers under the existing regulatory regime, while other regulated entities were required
to comply with new rules applicable to them. Further, all broker-dealers engaging in a retail
forex business must comply with the final rule; therefore, competition among broker-dealers
would most likely not be affected by adoption of the rule.
Adopting Rule 15b12-1 will impose no new burden on competition and should maintain
competition among intermediaries. Under Rule 15b12-1T, regulatory requirements for brokerdealers operating in the retail forex market would remain unchanged. As a result, retail
customers would continue to be able to choose between hedging their own portfolios of foreign
securities in a securities account or relying on other intermediaries or products for hedging.
Similarly, since the rule preserves the existing regulatory structure, the Commission does not
expect that adopting the rule will result in any impact on efficiency or impairment of the capital
formation process.
D.

Costs

Because Rule 15b12-1 preserves the regulatory regime that had been in place prior to the
effective date of Section 742(c) of the Dodd-Frank Act, the adoption of the rule imposes no new
regulatory burdens beyond those that already existed for broker-dealers. The Commission
recognizes that broker-dealers will face regulatory costs and requirements associated with
operating in the retail forex market, but these are not new costs or requirements imposed by the

35

rule. 112 As discussed above, the Commission is aware of potentially abusive practices that may
occur in the retail forex market. 113 To the extent that such practices occur after adoption of this
rule retail customers may bear the costs associated with these abuses. 114 The Commission notes
that due to the CFTC’s interpretation of the definition of retail forex, 115 the scope of retail forex
transactions has narrowed significantly after the Commission adopted and extended the Interim
Rule. As noted above, while the Commission only has limited information about the size of the
retail forex market, we believe the scope of the retail forex market is much smaller than
anticipated when the Commission adopted and extended the Interim Rule and that the number of
transactions currently engaged in by broker-dealers, and therefore covered by a Commission
retail forex rule, is much more limited. 116 The Commission believes, on balance, that the
potential market disruption that may occur if the Commission does not adopt Rule 15b12-1
justifies the cost of maintaining the current regulatory regime while the Commission considers,
during the time period set in the rule, whether further regulatory action is warranted.

112

These costs include costs related to disclosure, recordkeeping and documentation, capital
and margin, reporting, and business conduct. A broker-dealer that currently engages in
forex transactions with retail customers, for example, incurs costs associated with
establishing, maintaining, and implementing policies and procedures to comply with
regulatory requirements; preparing disclosure documents; establishing and maintaining
forex-related business records; and preparing filings with the Commission, which may
include legal and accounting fees. See, e.g., 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41684.

113

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41684.

114

See Forex Bulletin.

115

See supra note 26 and note 27.

116

See, e.g., Morgan Lewis Letter and SIFMA Letter. As noted by commenters and
discussed above, most forex activity engaged in by retail customers is conversion trades
and would no longer be subject to a Commission rule on retail forex.
36

E. Alternatives Considered
The Commission considered certain alternatives to adopting Rule 15b12-1. One
alternative would be to allow Rule 15b12-1T to expire without adopting a final rule, and
therefore preclude broker-dealers from engaging in a retail forex business, although they could
continue to enter into conversion trades. A benefit of this alternative could be that certain abuses
Congress sought to address through the prohibition in Section 742 of the Dodd-Frank Act could
be addressed through a complete prohibition. The cost of this alternative would be that an
outright prohibition on retail forex activity would interfere with certain business activities
conducted by broker-dealers that are potentially beneficial for their customers, including hedging
activities. 117
A retail investor seeking to hedge currency risks in a portfolio would have to choose
between alternative means of doing so. Trading in currency futures is one such alternative, but
under this approach, retail customers of broker-dealers would be required to open an account
with a FCM that is not dually registered as a broker-dealer. Moreover, mark-to-market margin
requirements associated with futures contracts would expose hedging customers to additional
cash flow risk. While shifting to services provided by a different intermediary would impose
additional costs, retail customers could, however, potentially benefit from the protection of rules
to which those intermediaries are subject.
In comment letters responding to the solicitation of comment in the 2011 Interim Rule
Release, one commenter suggested another way for retail investors to obtain currency exposure
is through ETPs. 118 Another commenter suggested that the Commission had not thoroughly

117

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41684.

118

See Philadelphia Financial Letter. See also Better Markets Letter. As described above,
the commenters referred to using currency ETFs. In the discussion here, the term ETPs is
37

analyzed the extent to which other products or trading strategies represent substitutes for retail
forex. 119
In response to the commenters’ concerns, we noted in the 2012 Extension Release that
currency ETPs are generally designed to provide broad exposure to exchange rate movements. 120
In this regard, the Commission notes that factors such as accrued interest or sponsor fees may
cause an ETP to deviate from its benchmark. We also note that a market participant who uses
ETPs as a hedging tool could face risks from executing hedges on an exchange that may be
markedly different from the execution risk associated with transacting through a brokerdealer. 121 As such, and consistent with statements in the 2012 Extension Release, it does not
appear that currency exchange-traded funds will necessarily function as effectively in mitigating
the currency risk of particular securities transactions as retail forex. 122
In the 2012 Extension Release, the Commission solicited specific comment on currency
ETFs, including on the concerns raised in the comment letters received in response to the 2011
Interim Rule Release, 123 the benefits and costs to retail customers of using currency ETFs as a
substitute for retail forex, and on the use of currency ETFs to hedge currency risk. 124 The
Commission did not receive any comments in response to this solicitation of comment regarding
used to encompass a broader range of potential instruments (including ETFs) that may be
used to gain exposure to forex.
119

See Better Markets Letter.

120

See 2012 Extension Release at 41675.

121

See, e.g., Kostovetsky, Leonard. “Index mutual funds and exchange-traded funds.” The
Journal of Portfolio Management 29.4 (2003), while comparing ETFs to index funds, the
author describes the different sources of tracking error incurred by ETF investors,
including management fees and transaction costs in the form of bid-ask spreads.

122

Id.

123

See supra note 118.

124

See 2012 Extension Release at 41674.
38

currency ETFs, and the Commission continues to believe that ETPs represent an imperfect
substitute for retail forex. In evaluating further the concerns expressed, however, Commission
staff supplemented the analysis regarding the additional risks that investors who use ETPs as
hedging instruments may have to bear discussed in the 2012 Extension Release and above.
Specifically, staff attempted to estimate the basis risk borne by an investor using an ETP
to hedge EURUSD exposure. 125 While, on an annual basis, the average difference between ETP
returns and EURUSD spot returns is small, the volatility of these differences from day-to-day is
high, approximately 0.50% at a daily frequency. This volatility is indicative of the additional
risk associated with hedging using ETPs, particularly for short holding periods or frequent
rebalancing. Under Rule 15b12-1, the same investor could consider using a forward contract for
EURUSD in her brokerage account. While the average difference in daily returns is higher in
this case than with an ETP, due to the interest rate differential between Europe and the United
States, the volatility of these differences is much lower, less than one basis point at a daily
frequency. 126

125

Commission staff chose EURUSD for its analysis due to ready availability of data on
ETPs, equity indices and foreign exchange rates related to the Euro area, and because an
ETP tracking EURUSD was more liquid than ETPs tracking other currencies during the
sample period. As a result of the additional liquidity, Commission staff expects this ETP
to result in less exposure to basis risk with respect to EURUSD than other ETPs in the
same family constructed to track other currency pairs.

126

Calculated based on data from Daily/Monthly U.S. Stock Files © 2012 Center for
Research in Security Prices (CRSP), The University of Chicago Booth School of
Business, and Thomson Reuters Datastream. To compute these statistics, Commission
staff used daily WM Spot closing prices, short-term interest rates and prices for the
CurrencyShares Euro ETN (ARCA: FXE) from 9/4/2007-12/31/2012 obtained from
Datastream (interest rates and exchange rates) and CRSP (ETN returns). With these data,
staff computed daily returns to (i) a EURUSD forward contract; and (ii) to the
CurrencyShares Euro ETN. To compute the additional risk faced by a EURUSD hedger
using each of these instruments, staff produced time series of the differences in daily
returns and computed the average and standard deviations of these series.
39

Finally, we note that if market participants prefer to transact in ETPs in order to obtain
currency exposure, they may do so regardless of whether the Commission has or has not adopted
rules for retail forex. In this regard, while the Commission continues to believe that ETPs have
their own attendant risks, during the time Rule 15b12-1 is in place until its expiration date, the
Commission will continue to evaluate the retail forex market, including alternative means of
hedging currency risk and the availability of substitutes to retail forex. As such, as discussed
throughout the release, the Commission believes that it is appropriate to allow broker dealers to
continue engaging in retail forex transaction subject to existing requirements during that time.
If, as an alternative to the final rule, the Commission allowed the Interim Rule to expire,
investors with international portfolios who are restricted from retail forex may choose to leave
currency exposures unhedged. The risk of a portfolio of foreign securities that is not hedged,
with returns computed in U.S. dollar terms, comprises (i) the risk of the underlying securities in
local currency; (ii) the risk of the local currency relative to the U.S. dollar; and (iii) the
correlation between the underlying security returns in local currency and currency returns.
Allowing investors to hedge currency exposures removes components (ii) and (iii), leaving
investors to bear only the risk associated with the underlying securities. 127
Further, inefficiencies stemming from an inability to pursue currency hedging strategies
in international portfolios, or higher costs of doing so, could cause investors to reduce their
allocation to international investments. In the limit, investors may respond by exiting

127

Based on data from Thomson Reuters Datastream, Commission staff used monthly
returns for the period 9/4/2007-12/31/2012 to estimate the annualized risk and return for
(i) the MSCI Europe index, unhedged in USD and (ii) the MSCI Europe index, hedged to
USD. Staff chose these indices to simplify the computation of portfolio returns for
various hedge ratios. Based solely on point estimates, partially-hedged portfolios offered
higher total return per unit of risk.
40

international markets. The resulting lack of diversification could represent a reduction in
portfolio efficiency. 128
The Commission also considered adopting Rule 15b12-1 without a sunset provision.
While the direct costs and benefits of this alternative would be similar to those applicable under
the rule being adopted (as it would simply continue the existing regulatory requirements for
broker-dealers engaging in retail forex transactions), it nevertheless could limit the
Commission’s ability to fully consider, prior to issuing permanent rules, potential changes to the
retail forex market; in part changes resulting from actions by other regulators that have recently
adopted rules relating to retail forex that impose different requirements on market intermediaries
than those the Commission imposes on broker-dealers under Rule 15b12-1. The Commission
anticipates that it will reconsider the rule prior to its expiration in light of developments in the
retail forex market during that time, as well as the Commission’s and SROs’ experiences with
retail forex trading pursuant to this Rule.
F.

Conclusion

The adoption of Rule 15b12-1 will not change the regulatory requirements for brokerdealers operating in the retail forex market. Similarly, the rule does not alter the existing
regulatory structure. To the extent that potentially abusive practices continue in the retail forex
market, the market will continue to bear the costs associated with any such abuses and the
resultant inefficient provision of services across the market. The rule will continue to allow
retail customers access to hedging transactions and other forex transactions through brokerdealers, without the need to shift business and open new accounts at other market intermediaries.
128

See, e.g., French, Kenneth R. and James M. Poterba. “Investor Diversification and
International Equity Markets,” American Economic Review, Vol. 81, No. 2, 1991, noting
that large variation in expected returns across countries is required to justify lack of
diversification in a mean-variance optimization setting.
41

If the Commission or an SRO imposes any additional burdens on retail forex transactions the
new burdens will be considered in conjunction with those new rules.
IV.

OTHER MATTERS
The Administrative Procedure Act generally requires that an agency publish a substantive

rule in the Federal Register 30 days before it becomes effective. 129 This requirement, however,
does not apply if the agency finds good cause for making the rule effective sooner. 130 The
Commission notes that Rule 15b12-1 does not impose any new regulatory requirements on
broker-dealers and that the rule is identical in substance to the Interim Rule, which requires that
broker-dealers comply with existing Commission and SRO rules as they are applicable to retail
forex transactions. A 30-day effective date is therefore not necessary for broker-dealers to
prepare to comply with the rule. Furthermore, broker-dealers are currently permitted to engage
in a retail forex business under the Interim Rule. A gap in the effective dates of the Interim Rule
and the final rule would cause the statutory prohibition to go into effect for a short period of time
and could potentially create disruption and unintended consequences to broker-dealers and their
customers. 131 For these reasons, 132 the Commission finds that there is good cause for making the
rule effective earlier than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register.
V.

PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT
The Commission notes that Rule 15b12-1 does not impose any new “collection of

information” requirements within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
129

See 5 U.S.C. 553(d).

130

Id. at 553(d)(3).

131

See, generally, the discussion in section III.C. regarding the effect on retail customers if
broker-dealers are not permitted to engage in retail forex transactions.

132

The Commission also notes that, as discussed above, there have been some recent
developments related to retail forex transactions, including the adoption in April 2013 of
final rules by the Federal Reserve. See Board Final Rule (effective May 13, 2013).
42

(“PRA”), 133 nor does it create any new filing, reporting, recordkeeping, or disclosure reporting
requirements for broker-dealers that are or plan to be engaged in a retail forex business.
Accordingly, the Commission did not submit the rule to the Office of Management and Budget
for review in accordance with the PRA.
In the 2011 Interim Rule Release and the 2012 Extension Release, the Commission
requested comment on its conclusion that there are no collections of information in connection
with the Interim Rule. 134 The Commission received no comments relating to the PRA analysis in
the 2011 Interim Rule Release or the 2012 Extension Release.
VI.

REGULATORY FLEXIBILITY ACT CERTIFICATION
In the 2011 Interim Rule Release, the Commission certified that pursuant to 5 U.S.C.

605(b) the Interim Rule, which is substantively the same as Rule 15b12-1 (with the exception of
the sunset date), will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small
entities. The Commission received no comments on the certification included in the 2011
Interim Rule Release. The Commission also made this certification in the 2012 Extension
Release and the Commission received no comments on that certification. Like the Interim Rule,
Rule 15b12-1 applies to broker-dealers that may engage in retail forex transactions. However,
the rule does not impose new regulatory obligations, costs, or burdens on such broker-dealers.
While the rule applies to broker-dealers that may be small businesses, any costs or regulatory
burdens incurred as a result of the rule are the same as those incurred by small broker-dealers
prior to the effective date of section 742 of the Dodd-Frank Act. Broker-dealers have already
incurred those costs and regulatory burdens through establishing compliance with the rules
adopted by the Commission under the Exchange Act applicable to broker-dealers, as well as
133

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

134

See 2011 Interim Rule Release at 41683-84.
43

relevant SRO rules. Further, the rule does not change the burdens on small broker-dealers
relative to large broker-dealers. Accordingly, the rule will not have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small entities.
VII.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TEXT OF RULE AND AMENDMENT
Pursuant to section 2(c)(2) of the Commodity Exchange Act, as well as the Exchange Act

as amended, the Commission is adopting Exchange Act Rule 15b12-1.
List of Subjects in 17 CFR Part 240
Brokers, Consumer protection, Currency, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. In
accordance with the foregoing, the Securities and Exchange Commission is amending Title 17,
chapter II, of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows:
TEXT OF THE RULE AND AMENDMENT
PART 240 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934
1.

The general authority citation for Part 240 is revised to read as follows:
Authority:

15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn,

77sss, 77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n,
78n-1, 78o, 78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a-23,
80a-29, 80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, 7201 et. seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C.
5221(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350; and Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1376, (2010), unless
otherwise noted.
*
2.

*

*

*

*

Add § 240.15b12-1 to read as follows:

§ 240.15b12-1 Brokers or dealers engaged in a retail forex business.

44

(a) Definitions. In addition to the definitions in this section, the following terms have the
same meaning as in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.): “broker,”
“dealer,” “person,” “registered broker or dealer,” and “self-regulatory organization.”
(1) Act means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.).
(2) Retail forex business means engaging in one or more retail forex transactions with the
intent to derive income from those transactions, either directly or indirectly.
(3) Retail forex transaction means any account, agreement, contract or transaction in
foreign currency that is offered or entered into by a broker or dealer with a person that is not an
eligible contract participant as defined in section 1a(18) of the Commodity Exchange Act (7
U.S.C. 1a(18)) and that is:
(i) A contract of sale of a commodity for future delivery or an option on such a contract;
(ii) An option, other than an option executed or traded on a national securities exchange
registered pursuant to section 6(a) of the Act (15 U.S.C. 78(f)(a)); or
(iii) Offered, or entered into, on a leveraged or margined basis, or financed by a broker or
dealer or any person acting in concert with the broker or dealer on a similar basis, other than:
(A) A security that is not a security futures product as defined in section 1a(47) of the
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 1a(47)); or
(B) A contract of sale that:
(1) Results in actual delivery within two days; or
(2) Creates an enforceable obligation to deliver between a seller and buyer that have the
ability to deliver and accept delivery, respectively, in connection with their line of business.
(b) Any registered broker or dealer may engage in a retail forex business provided that
such broker or dealer complies with the Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the rules

45

of the self-regulatory organization(s) of which the broker or dealer is a member, including, but
not limited to, the disclosure, recordkeeping, capital and margin, reporting, business conduct, and
documentation requirements, insofar as they are applicable to retail forex transactions.
(c) Any registered broker or dealer that is engaged in a retail forex business in
compliance with paragraph (b) of this section on or after the effective date of this section shall be
deemed to be acting pursuant to a rule or regulation described in section 2(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I) of the
Commodity Exchange Act (7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E)(ii)(I)).
(d) This section shall expire and no longer be effective on July 31, 2016.

By the Commission.

Jill M. Peterson
Assistant Secretary

Dated July 11, 2013

46

