COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 162
RIN: 3038-AD14
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 248
Release Nos. 34-69359, IA-3582, IC-30456; File No. S7-02-12
RIN: 3235-AL26
Identity Theft Red Flags Rules
AGENCIES: Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange
Commission.
ACTIONS: Joint final rules and guidelines.
SUMMARY: The Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) and the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“SEC”) (together, the “Commissions”) are jointly issuing final rules and
guidelines to require certain regulated entities to establish programs to address risks of identity
theft. These rules and guidelines implement provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act, which amended section 615(e) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act
and directed the Commissions to adopt rules requiring entities that are subject to the
Commissions’ respective enforcement authorities to address identity theft. First, the rules
require financial institutions and creditors to develop and implement a written identity theft
prevention program designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with
certain existing accounts or the opening of new accounts. The rules include guidelines to assist
entities in the formulation and maintenance of programs that would satisfy the requirements of
the rules. Second, the rules establish special requirements for any credit and debit card issuers

that are subject to the Commissions’ respective enforcement authorities, to assess the validity of
notifications of changes of address under certain circumstances.
DATES: Effective Date: May 20, 2013;
Compliance Date: November 20, 2013.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: CFTC: Sue McDonough, Counsel, at
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Office of the General Counsel, Three Lafayette
Centre, 1155 21st Street, NW, Washington, DC 20581, telephone number (202) 418-5132,
facsimile number (202) 418-5524, e-mail smcdonough@cftc.gov; SEC: with regard to
investment companies and investment advisers, contact Andrea Ottomanelli Magovern, Senior
Counsel, Amanda Wagner, Senior Counsel, Thoreau Bartmann, Branch Chief, or Hunter Jones,
Assistant Director, Office of Regulatory Policy, Division of Investment Management, (202)
551-6792, or with regard to brokers, dealers, or transfer agents, contact Brice Prince, Special
Counsel, Joseph Furey, Assistant Chief Counsel, or David Blass, Chief Counsel, Office of Chief
Counsel, Division of Trading and Markets, (202) 551-5550, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-8549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
The Commissions are adopting new rules and guidelines on identity theft red flags for
entities subject to their respective enforcement authorities. The CFTC is adding new subpart C
(“Identity Theft Red Flags”) to part 162 of the CFTC’s regulations [17 CFR part 162] and the
SEC is adding new subpart C (“Regulation S-ID: Identity Theft Red Flags”) to part 248 of the
SEC’s regulations [17 CFR part 248], under the Fair Credit Reporting Act [15 U.S.C. 1681–
1681x], the Commodity Exchange Act [7 U.S.C. 1–27f], the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

2

[15 U.S.C. 78a–78pp], the Investment Company Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80a], and the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 [15 U.S.C. 80b].
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.

BACKGROUND ................................................................................................................. 4

II.

EXPLANATION OF THE FINAL RULES AND GUIDELINES...................................... 8
A.

Final Identity Theft Red Flags Rules .................................................................................. 8

1.

Which Financial Institutions and Creditors Are Required to Have a Program ............ 9

2.

The Objectives of the Program ................................................................................... 29

3.

The Elements of the Program ..................................................................................... 30

4.

Administration of the Program ................................................................................... 32

B.

Final Guidelines ................................................................................................................ 34
1.

Section I of the Guidelines–Identity Theft Prevention Program ................................ 35

2.

Section II of the Guidelines –Identifying Relevant Red Flags ................................... 35

3.

Section III of the Guidelines–Detecting Red Flags .................................................... 36

4.

Section IV of the Guidelines–Preventing and Mitigating Identity Theft ................... 37

5.

Section V of the Guidelines–Updating the Identity Theft Prevention Program ......... 38

6.

Section VI of the Guidelines–Methods for Administering the Identity Theft

Prevention Program .............................................................................................................. 38
7.

Section VII of the Guidelines–Other Applicable Legal Requirements ...................... 40

8.

Supplement A to the Guidelines ................................................................................. 40

C.
III.

Final Card Issuer Rules ..................................................................................................... 41
RELATED MATTERS ...................................................................................................... 42

A.

Cost-Benefit Considerations (CFTC) and Economic Analysis (SEC) ............................. 42

B.

Analysis of Effects on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital Formation ......................... 61

C.

Paperwork Reduction Act ................................................................................................. 62

D.

Regulatory Flexibility Act ................................................................................................ 74

IV.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TEXT OF AMENDMENTS ................................... 81

3

I.

BACKGROUND
The growth and expansion of information technology and electronic communication have

made it increasingly easy to collect, maintain, and transfer personal information about
individuals. 1 Advancements in technology also have led to increasing threats to the integrity and
privacy of personal information. 2 During recent decades, the federal government has taken steps
to help protect individuals, and to help individuals protect themselves, from the risks of theft,
loss, and abuse of their personal information. 3
The Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1970 (“FCRA”), 4 as amended in 2003, 5 required several
federal agencies to issue joint rules and guidelines regarding the detection, prevention, and

1

See, e.g., U.S. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE, INFORMATION SECURITY: FEDERAL
GUIDANCE NEEDED TO ADDRESS CONTROL ISSUES WITH IMPLEMENTING CLOUD COMPUTING
(May 2010), available at http://www.gao.gov/new.items/d10513.pdf (discussing information
security implications of cloud computing); DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE, INTERNET POLICY
TASK FORCE, COMMERCIAL DATA PRIVACY AND INNOVATION IN THE INTERNET ECONOMY: A
DYNAMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK, at Section I (2010), available at
http://www.ntia.doc.gov/reports/2010/iptf_privacy_greenpaper_12162010.pdf (reviewing recent
technological changes that necessitate a new approach to commercial data protection). See also
FRED H. CATE, PRIVACY IN THE INFORMATION AGE, at 13–16 (1997) (discussing the privacy and
data security issues that arose during early increases in the use of digital data).

2

A recent survey found that in 2012, over 5% of Americans were victims of identity fraud. See
Javelin Strategy & Research, 2013 IDENTITY FRAUD REPORT: DATA BREACHES BECOMING A
TREASURE TROVE FOR FRAUDSTERS (Feb. 2013), available at
https://www.javelinstrategy.com/uploads/web_brochure/1303.R_2013IdentityFraudBrochure.pdf;
see also Comment Letter of Tyler Krulla (“Tyler Krulla Comment Letter”) (Apr. 27, 2012) (“In
today’s technology driven world it is easier than ever for anyone to acquire and exploit
someone’s identity and cause severe financial problems.”).

3

See, e.g., CONSUMER DATA PRIVACY IN A NETWORKED WORLD: A FRAMEWORK FOR
PROTECTING PRIVACY AND PROMOTING INNOVATION IN THE GLOBAL DIGITAL ECONOMY (Feb.
2012), available at http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/files/privacy-final.pdf (a White
House proposal to establish a consumer privacy bill of rights); The President’s Identity Theft
Task Force Report (Sept. 2008), available at
http://www.ftc.gov/os/2008/10/081021taskforcereport.pdf; Securities and Exchange Commission,
ONLINE BROKERAGE ACCOUNTS: WHAT YOU CAN DO TO SAFEGUARD YOUR MONEY AND YOUR
PERSONAL INFORMATION, available at http://www.sec.gov/investor/pubs/onlinebrokerage.htm.

4

Pub. L. 91-508, 84 Stat. 1114 (1970), codified at 15 U.S.C. 1681–1681x.

4

mitigation of identity theft for entities that are subject to their respective enforcement authorities
(also known as the “identity theft red flags rules”). 6 Those agencies were the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”), the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
(“Federal Reserve Board”), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), the Office of
Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), the National Credit Union Administration (“NCUA”), and the
Federal Trade Commission (“FTC”) (together, the “Agencies”). 7 In 2007, the Agencies issued
joint final identity theft red flags rules. 8 At the time the Agencies adopted their rules, the FCRA
did not require or authorize the CFTC and SEC to issue identity theft red flags rules. Instead, the
Agencies’ rules applied to entities that registered with the CFTC and SEC, such as futures
commission merchants, broker-dealers, investment companies, and investment advisers. 9

5

See Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003, Pub. L. 108-159, 117 Stat. 1952 (2003)
(“FACT Act”).

6

See FCRA §§ 615(e)(1)(A)–(B), 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(1)(A)–(B). Section 615(e)(1)(A) of the
FCRA requires the Agencies to jointly “establish and maintain guidelines for use by each
financial institution and each creditor regarding identity theft with respect to account holders at,
or customers of, such entities, and update such guidelines as often as necessary.” Section
615(e)(1)(B) requires the Agencies to jointly “prescribe regulations requiring each financial
institution and each creditor to establish reasonable policies and procedures for implementing the
guidelines established pursuant to [section 615(e)(1)(A)], to identify possible risks to account
holders or customers or to the safety and soundness of the institution or customers.”

7

The FCRA also required the Agencies to prescribe joint rules applicable to issuers of credit and
debit cards, to require that such issuers assess the validity of notifications of changes of address
under certain circumstances (the “card issuer rules”). See FCRA § 615(e)(1)(C), 15 U.S.C.
1681m(e)(1)(C).

8

See Identity Theft Red Flags and Address Discrepancies under the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act of 2003, 72 FR 63718 (Nov. 9, 2007) (“2007 Adopting Release”). The rules
included card issuer rules. See supra note 7. The OCC, Federal Reserve Board, FDIC, OTS, and
NCUA began enforcing their identity theft red flags rules on November 1, 2008. The FTC began
enforcing its identity theft red flags rules on January 1, 2011.

9

See 2007 Adopting Release, supra note 8.

5

In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
(“Dodd-Frank Act”) 10 amended the FCRA to add the CFTC and SEC to the list of federal
agencies that must jointly adopt and individually enforce identity theft red flags rules. 11 Thus,
the Dodd-Frank Act provides for the transfer of rulemaking responsibility and enforcement
authority to the CFTC and SEC with respect to the entities subject to each agency’s enforcement
authority. In February 2012, the Commissions jointly proposed for public notice and comment
identity theft red flags rules and guidelines and card issuer rules. 12
The CFTC and SEC received a total of 27 comment letters on the proposal. 13 Most
commenters generally supported the proposal, and many stated that the rules would benefit
individuals. 14 Commenters expressed concern about the prevalence of identity theft and
10

Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010). The text of the Dodd-Frank Act is available at
http://www.cftc.gov/LawRegulation/OTCDERIVATIVES/index.htm.

11

See FCRA § 615(e)(1), 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(1). In addition, section 1088(a)(10)(A) of the
Dodd-Frank Act added the Commissions to the list of federal administrative agencies responsible
for enforcement of rules pursuant to section 621(b) of the FCRA. See infra note 24. Section
1100H of the Dodd-Frank Act provides that the Commissions’ new enforcement authority (as
well as other changes in various agencies’ authority under other provisions) becomes effective as
of the “designated transfer date” to be established by the Secretary of the Treasury, as described
in section 1062 of that Act. On September 20, 2010, the Secretary of the Treasury designated
July 21, 2011 as the transfer date. See Designated Transfer Date, 75 FR 57252 (Sept. 20, 2010).

12

The Commissions’ joint proposed rules and guidelines were published in the Federal Register on
March 6, 2012. See Identity Theft Red Flags Rules, 77 FR 13450 (Mar. 6, 2012) (“Proposing
Release”). For ease of reference, unless the context indicates otherwise, our general use of the
terms “identity theft red flags rules” or “rules” in this release will refer to both the identity theft
red flags rules and guidelines. In addition, unless the context indicates otherwise, the general use
of these terms in this preamble and Section III of this release will refer to both the identity theft
red flags rules and guidelines, and the card issuer rules (which are discussed in further detail later
in this release).

13

Comments on the proposal, including comments referenced in this release, are available on the
SEC’s website at http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-02-12/s70212.shtml and the CFTC’s website
at http://comments.cftc.gov/PublicComments/CommentList.aspx?id=1171.

14

See, e.g., Comment Letter of MarketCounsel (Apr. 25, 2012) (“MarketCounsel Comment Letter”)
(“MarketCounsel supports the Commission’s attempt to help protect individuals from the risk of
theft, loss, and abuse of their personal information through the Proposed Rule.”); Comment Letter
of Erik Speicher (“Erik Speicher Comment Letter”) (Mar. 17, 2012) (“Identity theft is a major

6

supported our efforts to reduce it. 15 Commenters also supported the Commissions’ proposal to
adopt rules that would be substantially similar to the rules the Agencies adopted in 2007. 16
Some commenters raised questions about the scope of the proposal and the meaning of certain
definitions. 17 One commenter stated that benefits to consumers would outweigh the costs of the
rules, 18 while another took issue with the estimated costs of complying with the rules. 19
Today, the CFTC and SEC are adopting the identity theft red flags rules. The final rules
are substantially similar to the rules the Commissions proposed, 20 and to the rules the Agencies

concern of all citizens. The effects and burdens associated with having ones [sic] identity stolen
necessitate these proposed regulations. The affirmative duty placed on the covered entities will
better protect all of us from the possibility of having our identity stolen.”); Comment Letter of
Lauren L. (Mar. 12, 2012) (“Lauren L. Comment Letter”) (“[R]equirements to implement an
identity theft prevention plan and to verify change of personal information [have] the [potential]
to protect people.”).
15

See, e.g., Tyler Krulla Comment Letter; Lauren L. Comment Letter (“I agree with the proposed
changes. With the market shifting to an IT based world, identity theft is increasing. Therefore,
more stringent rules and regulations should be in place to protect those that may be affected.”).

16

See, e.g., Comment Letter of the Investment Company Institute (May 1, 2012) (“ICI Comment
Letter”).

17

See, e.g., Comment Letter of the Investment Adviser Association (May 7, 2012) (“IAA Comment
Letter”) (requesting that the SEC and CFTC clarify the definitions of “financial institution” and
“creditor” and exclude investment advisers from the categories of entities specifically mentioned
in the scope section of the rule); Comment Letter of the Options Clearing Corporation (May 3,
2012) (“OCC Comment Letter”) (requesting that the SEC and CFTC clarify the definition of
“creditor” and expressly exclude clearing organizations from the scope section of the rule);
Comment Letter of the Financial Services Roundtable and the Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association (May 2, 2012) (“FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter”) (requesting that the SEC
specifically exclude certain categories of entities from the definitions of “financial institution”
and “covered account,” and that the SEC and CFTC specifically define the types of accounts that
would qualify as covered accounts).

18

See Erik Speicher Comment Letter.

19

See FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter. We discuss estimated costs and benefits in the Section III of
this release.

20

See infra Section II.A.1.ii (discussing a revision to proposed definition of “creditor”); see also §
248.201(b)(2)(i) (SEC) (revising the term “non U.S. based financial institution or creditor,” which
was included in the proposed definition of “board of directors,” to “foreign financial institution or
creditor,” for clarity and consistency with the CFTC’s and Agencies’ respective identity theft red
flags rules).

7

adopted in 2007. 21 The final rules apply to “financial institutions” and “creditors” subject to the
Commissions’ respective enforcement authorities, and as discussed further below, do not exclude
any entities registered with the Commissions from their scope. The Commissions recognize that
entities subject to their respective enforcement authorities, whose activities fall within the scope
of the rules, should already be in compliance with the Agencies’ joint rules. The rules we are
adopting today do not contain requirements that were not already in the Agencies’ rules, nor do
they expand the scope of those rules to include new categories of entities that the Agencies’ rules
did not already cover. The rules and this adopting release do contain examples and minor
language changes designed to help guide entities within the SEC’s enforcement authority in
complying with the rules, which may lead some entities that had not previously complied with
the Agencies’ rules to determine that they fall within the scope of the rules we are adopting
today.
II.

EXPLANATION OF THE FINAL RULES AND GUIDELINES
A.

Final Identity Theft Red Flags Rules

Sections 615(e)(1)(A) and (B) of the FCRA, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, require
that the Commissions jointly establish and maintain guidelines for “financial institutions” and
“creditors” regarding identity theft, and adopt rules requiring such institutions and creditors to
establish reasonable policies and procedures for the implementation of those guidelines. 22 Under
the final rules, a financial institution or creditor that offers or maintains “covered accounts” must
establish an identity theft red flags program designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity
theft. To that end, the final rules discussed below specify: (1) which financial institutions and
21

See 2007 Adopting Release.

22

15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(1)(A) and (B). Key terms such as “financial institution” and “creditor” are
defined in the rules and discussed later in this Section.

8

creditors must develop and implement a written identity theft prevention program (“Program”);
(2) the objectives of the Program; (3) the elements that the Program must contain; and (4) the
steps financial institutions and creditors need to take to administer the Program.
1.

Which Financial Institutions and Creditors Are Required to Have a
Program

The “scope” subsections of the rules generally set forth the types of entities that are
subject to the Commissions’ identity theft red flags rules. 23 Under these subsections, the rules
apply to entities over which Congress recently granted the Commissions enforcement authority
under the FCRA. 24 The Commissions’ scope provisions are similar to those contained in the
rules adopted by the Agencies, which limit the rules’ scope to entities that are within the
Agencies’ respective enforcement authorities. 25
As noted above, the CFTC’s “scope” subsection “applies to financial institutions and
creditors that are subject to” the CFTC’s enforcement authority under the FCRA. 26 The CFTC’s
proposed definitions of “financial institution” and “creditor” describe the entities to which its
identity theft red flags rules and guidelines apply. In the Proposing Release, the CFTC defined
23

§ 162.30(a) (CFTC); § 248.201(a) (SEC).

24

Section 1088(a)(10)(A) of the Dodd-Frank Act amended section 621(b) of the FCRA to add the
Commissions to the list of federal agencies responsible for enforcement of the FCRA. As
amended, section 621(b) of the FCRA specifically provides that enforcement of the requirements
imposed under the FCRA “shall be enforced under . . . the Commodity Exchange Act, with
respect to a person subject to the jurisdiction of the [CFTC]; [and under] the Federal securities
laws, and any other laws that are subject to the jurisdiction of the [SEC], with respect to a person
that is subject to the jurisdiction of the [SEC] . . . .” 15 U.S.C. 1681s(b)(1)(F)–(G). See also 15
U.S.C. 1681a(f) (defining “consumer reporting agency”).

25

See, e.g., 12 CFR 334.90(a) (stating that the FDIC’s red flags rule “applies to a financial
institution or creditor that is an insured state nonmember bank, insured state licensed branch of a
foreign bank, or a subsidiary of such entities (except brokers, dealers, persons providing
insurance, investment companies, and investment advisers)”); 12 CFR 717.90(a) (stating that the
NCUA’s red flags rule “applies to a financial institution or creditor that is a federal credit
union”).

26

§ 162.30(a); see also supra note 24.

9

“financial institution” as having the same meaning as in section 603(t) of the FCRA. 27 In
addition, the CFTC’s proposed definition of “financial institution” also specified that the term
includes any futures commission merchant (“FCM”), retail foreign exchange dealer (“RFED”),
commodity trading advisor (“CTA”), commodity pool operator (“CPO”), introducing broker
(“IB”), swap dealer (“SD”), or major swap participant (“MSP”) that directly or indirectly holds a
transaction account belonging to a consumer. 28 Similarly, in the CFTC’s proposed definition of
“creditor,” the CFTC applies the definition of “creditor” from 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4) to any
FCM, RFED, CTA, CPO, IB, SD, or MSP that “regularly extends, renews, or continues credit;
regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of credit; or in acting as an
assignee of an original creditor, participates in the decision to extend, renew, or continue
credit.” 29 The CFTC has determined that the final identity theft red flags rules apply to these
entities because of the increased likelihood that these entities open or maintain covered accounts,
or pose a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers, or to the safety and soundness of the financial
institution or creditor, from identity theft. This approach is consistent with the general scope of
part 162 of the CFTC’s regulations. 30
One commenter suggested that the CFTC follow the SEC’s approach and simply
27

See 15 U.S.C. 1681a(t) (defining “financial institution” to include certain banks and credit unions,
and “any other person that, directly or indirectly, holds a transaction account (as defined in
Section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act) belonging to a consumer”). Section 19(b) of the
Federal Reserve Act defines a transaction account as “a deposit or account on which the depositor
or account holder is permitted to make withdrawals by negotiable or transferable instrument,
payment orders or withdrawal, telephone transfers, or other similar items for the purpose of
making payments or transfers to third parties or others.” 12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(C).)

28

§ 162.30(b)(7).

29

§ 162.30(b)(5).

30

§ 162.1(b) (specifying that “[t]his part applies to certain consumer information held by … futures
commission merchants, retail foreign exchange dealers, commodity trading advisors, commodity
pool operators, introducing brokers, major swap participants and swap dealers.”)

10

cross-reference the FCRA definition of “financial institution” and the FCRA definition of
“creditor” as amended by the Red Flag Program Clarification Act of 2010 (“Clarification Act”) 31
rather than including named entities in the definition. 32 The commenter argued that
cross-referencing the FCRA definitions, as amended by the Clarification Act, rather than
including specific types of entities that are subject to the CFTC’s enforcement authority in the
definitions of “financial institution” and “creditor,” would be more consistent with the SEC’s and
the Agencies’ regulations and would allow the agencies to easily adapt to any changes to the
FCRA over time. 33
After considering these concerns, the CFTC has concluded that if it were to follow the
SEC’s approach and simply cross-reference the FCRA definitions of “financial institution” and
“creditor,” the general scope provisions of 17 CFR part 162 would still apply and specify that
part 162 applies to FCMs, RFEDs, CTAs, CPOs, IBs, MSPs, and SDs. As a practical matter, a
cross-reference to the FCRA definitions of “financial institution” and “creditor” would not
change the result because under the general scope provisions of part 162, the CFTC’s identity
theft red flags rules would still apply to the same list of entities. As a result, the CFTC believes
that it should retain the same definition of “financial institution” and “creditor” contained in the
Proposing Release.
The SEC’s “scope” subsection provides that the final rules apply to a financial institution
or creditor, as defined by the FCRA, that is:
31

In December 2010, President Obama signed into law the Red Flag Program Clarification Act of
2010, which amended the definition of “creditor” in the FCRA for purposes of identity theft red
flags rules. Red Flag Program Clarification Act of 2010, Pub. L. 111-319 (2010) (inserting new
section 4 at the end of section 615(e) of the FCRA), codified at 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4).

32

IAA Comment Letter.

33

The commenter also noted that the CFTC’s proposed definition of “creditor” would include
certain entities such as CPOs and CTAs–entities that do not extend credit.

11

•

A broker, dealer or any other person that is registered or required to be registered
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”);

•

An investment company that is registered or required to be registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”), that has elected to
be regulated as a business development company (“BDC”) under that Act, or that
operates as an employees’ securities company (“ESC”) under that Act; or

•

An investment adviser that is registered or required to be registered under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Investment Advisers Act”). 34

The types of entities listed by name in the scope section are the registered entities
regulated by the SEC that are most likely to be financial institutions or creditors, i.e., brokers or
dealers (“broker-dealers”), investment companies, and investment advisers. 35 The scope section
also includes any other entities that are registered or are required to register under the Exchange

34

§ 248.201(a).

35

The SEC’s final rules define the scope of the identity theft red flags rules, section 248.201(a),
differently than Regulation S-AM, the affiliate marketing rule the SEC adopted under the FCRA,
defines its scope. See 17 CFR 248.101(b) (providing that Regulation S-AM applies to any
brokers or dealers (other than notice-registered brokers or dealers), any investment companies,
and any investment advisers or transfer agents registered with the SEC). Section 214(b) of the
FACT Act, pursuant to which the SEC adopted Regulation S-AM, did not specify the types of
entities that would be subject to the SEC’s rules, and did not state that the affiliate marketing
rules should apply to all persons subject to the SEC’s enforcement authority. By contrast, the
Dodd-Frank Act specifies that the SEC’s identity theft red flags rules should apply to a “person
that is subject to the jurisdiction” of the SEC. See Dodd-Frank Act §§ 1088(a)(8), (10).
Therefore, the SEC’s identity theft red flags rules apply to BDCs, ESCs, and “any . . . person that
is registered or required to be registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,” as well as to
those entities within the scope of Regulation S-AM.
The scope of the SEC’s final rules also differs from that of Regulation S-P, 17 CFR part 248,
subpart A, the privacy rule the SEC adopted in 2000 pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act.
Pub. L. 106-102 (1999). Regulation S-P was adopted under Title V of that Act, which, unlike the
FCRA, limited the SEC’s regulatory authority to: (i) brokers and dealers; (ii) investment
companies; and (iii) investment advisers registered under the Investment Advisers Act. See 15
U.S.C. 6805(a)(3)–(5).

12

Act. 36 Some types of entities required to register under the Exchange Act, such as nationally
recognized statistical rating organizations (“NRSROs”), self-regulatory organizations (“SROs”),
municipal advisors, and municipal securities dealers, are not listed by name in the scope section
because they may be less likely to qualify as financial institutions or creditors under the FCRA. 37
Nevertheless, if any entity of a type not listed qualifies as a financial institution or creditor, it is
covered by the SEC’s rules. The scope section does not include entities that are not themselves
registered or required to register with the SEC (with the exception of certain non-registered
investment companies that nonetheless are regulated by the SEC 38), even if they register
securities under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Exchange Act, or report information under the
federal securities laws. 39
The SEC received four comment letters arguing that it should specifically exclude certain

36

The Dodd-Frank Act defines a “person regulated by the [SEC],” for other purposes of the Act, as
certain entities that are registered or required to be registered with the SEC, and certain
employees, agents, and contractors of those entities. See Dodd-Frank Act § 1002(21).

37

The SEC believes that municipal advisors and municipal securities dealers may be less likely to
qualify as financial institutions because they may be less likely to maintain transaction accounts
for consumers. A commenter agreed with us that municipal advisors and municipal securities
dealers may be less likely to qualify as financial institutions. See FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter.
For further discussion, see infra notes 43–47 and accompanying text.

38

As noted above, the scope of the final rules covers BDCs and ESCs, which typically do not
register as investment companies with the SEC but are regulated by the SEC. BDCs file with the
SEC notices of reliance on the BDC provisions of the Investment Company Act and the SEC’s
rules thereunder. See Form N-54A (“Notification of Election to be Subject to Sections 55
through 65 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 Filed Pursuant to Section 54(a) of the Act”)
[17 CFR 274.53]. ESCs operate pursuant to individual exemptive orders issued by the SEC that
govern the companies’ operations. See Investment Company Act § 6(b) [15 U.S.C. 80a-6(b)].

39

See, e.g., Exemptions for Advisers to Venture Capital Funds, Private Fund Advisers With Less
Than $150 Million in Assets Under Management, and Foreign Private Advisers, Investment
Advisers Act Release No. 3222 (June 22, 2011) [76 FR 39646 (July 6, 2011)] (adopting rules
related to investment advisers exempt from registration with the SEC, including “exempt
reporting advisers”).

13

entities from the scope of the rules. 40 These commenters recommended that the scope section
exclude registered investment advisers, 41 clearing organizations, 42 SROs, municipal securities
dealers, municipal advisors, or NRSROs. 43 The commenters argued that these entities are
unlikely to be financial institutions or creditors and that, without a specific exclusion, the scope
of the rules is unclear and the rules would require these entities to periodically review their
operations to ensure compliance with rules that are not relevant to their businesses. 44 Another
commenter recommended that the rules not list any of the types of entities subject to the rules,
because such a list could confuse entities that are on the list but do not qualify as financial
institutions or creditors. 45
We appreciate these concerns, and seek to minimize potential unnecessary burdens on
regulated entities. As we acknowledge above, the entities that are not listed in the rule’s scope
section may be less likely to qualify as financial institutions or creditors under the FCRA, e.g.,

40

See IAA Comment Letter; Comment Letter of the National Society of Compliance Professionals,
Inc. (May 4, 2012) (“NSCP Comment Letter”); OCC Comment Letter; FSR/SIFMA Comment
Letter.

41

See, e.g., IAA Comment Letter (“[W]e believe a cleaner approach would be to eliminate
investment advisers from the entities specifically mentioned in the scope section.”); NSCP
Comment Letter (“We would urge the Commission to specifically exclude investment advisers
from the scope of the rule since it is our view that any adviser that is a financial institution would
already be covered by FCRA.”). For further discussion, see infra notes 55–60 and 73–76 and
accompanying text.

42

See OCC Comment Letter (“[W]e encourage the Commissions to expressly exclude clearing
organizations from the scope of the Proposed Rules because, as explained below, clearing
organizations like OCC should not be considered ‘creditors’ for these purposes.”). For further
discussion, see infra note 75.

43

See FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter (“Specifically, we ask that the SEC exclude … those entities
that are unlikely to be deemed financial institutions or creditors under the FCRA, such as
NRSROs, SROs, municipal advisors, municipal securities dealers, and registered investment
advisers.”).

44

See, e.g., NSCP Comment Letter.

45

See MarketCounsel Comment Letter.

14

because they do not hold transaction accounts for consumers. 46 The Dodd-Frank Act required
the SEC to adopt identity theft red flags rules with respect to persons that are “subject to the
jurisdiction of the Securities and Exchange Commission.” 47 Expressly excluding from certain
requirements of the rules any entities that are registered with the SEC, are subject to the SEC’s
enforcement authority, and are covered by the scope of the rules likely would not effectively
implement the purposes of the Dodd-Frank Act and the FCRA, which are described in this
release. In addition, we continue to believe that specifically listing in the scope section the
entities that are likely to be subject to the rules — if they qualify as financial institutions or
creditors — will provide useful guidance to those entities in determining their status under the
rules. Therefore, we are adopting the scope section of the rules as proposed.
i.

Definition of Financial Institution

As discussed above, the Commissions’ final red flags rules apply to “financial
institutions” and “creditors.” As in the proposed rules, the Commissions are defining the term
“financial institution” in the final rules by reference to the definition of the term in section 603(t)
of the FCRA. 48 That section defines a financial institution to include certain banks and credit
unions, and “any other person that, directly or indirectly, holds a transaction account (as defined
in section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act) belonging to a consumer.” 49 Section 19(b) of the

46

See supra note 37 and accompanying text. For further discussion of the extent to which
investment advisers, which are specifically listed in the rules’ scope section, may qualify as
financial institutions or creditors, see infra notes 55–60 and 73–76 and accompanying text.

47

15 U.S.C. 1681s(b)(1)(G).

48

15 U.S.C. 1681a(t). See § 162.30(b)(7) (CFTC); § 248.201(b)(7) (SEC). The Agencies also
defined “financial institution,” in their identity theft red flags rules, by reference to the FCRA.
See, e.g., 16 CFR 681.1(b)(7) (FTC) (“Financial institution has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C.
1681a(t).”).

49

15 U.S.C. 1681a(t). In full, the FCRA defines “financial institution” to mean “a State or National
bank, a State or Federal savings and loan association, a mutual savings bank, a State or Federal

15

Federal Reserve Act defines “transaction account” to include an “account on which
the ... account holder is permitted to make withdrawals by negotiable or transferable instrument,
payment orders of withdrawal, telephone transfers, or other similar items for the purpose of
making payments or transfers to third persons or others.” 50 Section 603(c) of the FCRA defines
“consumer” as an individual; 51 thus, to qualify as a financial institution, an entity must hold a
transaction account belonging to an individual. The following are illustrative examples of an
SEC-regulated entity that could fall within the meaning of the term “financial institution”
because it holds transaction accounts belonging to individuals: (i) a broker-dealer that offers
custodial accounts; (ii) a registered investment company that enables investors to make wire
transfers to other parties or that offers check-writing privileges; and (iii) an investment adviser
that directly or indirectly holds transaction accounts and that is permitted to direct payments or
transfers out of those accounts to third parties. 52
A few commenters raised concerns about the SEC’s statements in the Proposing Release
regarding the possibility that some investment advisers could be financial institutions under
certain circumstances. These commenters argued that investment advisers generally do not
“hold” transaction accounts, thus meaning that they would not be financial institutions under the

credit union, or any other person that, directly or indirectly, holds a transaction account [as
defined in section 19(b) of the Federal Reserve Act] belonging to a consumer.” Id.
50

12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(C). Section 19(b) further states that a transaction account “includes demand
deposits, negotiable order of withdrawal accounts, savings deposits subject to automatic transfers,
and share draft accounts.” Id.

51

15 U.S.C. 1681a(c).

52

The CFTC’s definition specifies that financial institution “includes any futures commission
merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity pool operator,
introducing broker, swap dealer, or major swap participant that directly or indirectly holds a
transaction account belonging to a consumer.” See § 162.30(b)(7).

16

definition. 53 One commenter requested that we state that investment advisers who are authorized
to withdraw assets from investors’ accounts to pay bills, or otherwise direct payments to third
parties, on behalf of investors do not “indirectly” hold such accounts and therefore are not
financial institutions. 54
The SEC has concluded otherwise. As described below, some investment advisers do
hold transaction accounts, both directly and indirectly, and thus may qualify as financial
institutions under the rules as we are adopting them. As discussed further in Section III of this
release, SEC staff anticipates that the following examples of circumstances in which certain
entities, particularly investment advisers, may qualify as financial institutions may lead some of
these entities that had not previously complied with the Agencies’ rules to now determine that
they should comply with Regulation S-ID. 55
Investment advisers who have the ability to direct transfers or payments from accounts
belonging to individuals to third parties upon the individuals’ instructions, or who act as agents
on behalf of the individuals, are susceptible to the same types of risks of fraud as other financial
institutions, and individuals who hold transaction accounts with these investment advisers bear
the same types of risks of identity theft and loss of assets as consumers holding accounts with
53

See, e.g., IAA Comment Letter (“Investment advisers are not banks or credit unions and do not
hold transaction accounts, such as custodial accounts or accounts with check-writing privileges.
Instead, any cash or securities managed by investment advisers must be held in custody with
financial institutions that are qualified custodians (broker-dealers or banks, primarily).”).

54

See MarketCounsel Comment Letter (“MarketCounsel requests additional clarification in the
Proposed Rule to make it clear that an investment adviser will not be deemed to indirectly hold a
transaction account simply because it has control over, or access to, the transaction account.”).

55

SEC staff understands, based on comment letters and communications with industry
representatives, that a number of investment advisers may not currently have identity theft red
flags Programs. See MarketCounsel Comment Letter; IAA Comment Letter. SEC staff also
expects, based on Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD) data, that certain private
fund advisers could potentially meet the definition of “financial institution” or “creditor.” See
infra note 190.

17

other financial institutions. If such an adviser does not have a program in place to verify
investors’ identities and detect identity theft red flags, another individual may deceive the adviser
by posing as an investor. The red flags program of a bank or other qualified custodian 56 that
maintains physical custody of an investor’s assets would not adequately protect individuals
holding transaction accounts with such advisers, because the adviser could give an order to
withdraw assets, but at the direction of an impostor. 57 Investors who entrust their assets to
registered investment advisers that directly or indirectly hold transaction accounts should receive
the protections against identity theft provided by these rules.
For instance, even if an investor’s assets are physically held with a qualified custodian, an
adviser that has authority, by power of attorney or otherwise, to withdraw money from the
investor’s account and direct payments to third parties according to the investor’s instructions
would hold a transaction account. However, an adviser that has authority to withdraw money
from an investor’s account solely to deduct its own advisory fees would not hold a transaction
account, because the adviser would not be making the payments to third parties. 58

56

See 17 CFR § 275.206(4)-2(d)(6) (setting forth the entities that fall within the definition of
“qualified custodian”).

57

See, e.g., Byron Acohido, Cybercrooks fool financial advisers to steal from clients, USA TODAY,
Aug. 26, 2012, available at http://usatoday30.usatoday.com/money/perfi/basics/story/2012-0826/wire-transfer-fraud/57335540/1 (last visited March 4, 2013) (“In a new twist, cyber-robbers
are using ginned-up e-mail messages in attempts to con financial advisers into wiring cash out of
their clients’ online investment accounts. If the adviser falls for it, a wire transfer gets
legitimately executed, and cash flows into a bank account controlled by the thieves–leaving the
victim in a dispute with the financial adviser over getting made whole.”).

58

See supra note 50 and accompanying text.

18

Registered investment advisers to private funds also may directly or indirectly hold
transaction accounts. 59 If an individual invests money in a private fund, and the adviser to the
fund has the authority, pursuant to an arrangement with the private fund or the individual, to
direct such individual’s investment proceeds (e.g., redemptions, distributions, dividends, interest,
or other proceeds related to the individual’s account) to third parties, then that adviser would
indirectly hold a transaction account. For example, a private fund adviser would hold a
transaction account if it has the authority to direct an investor’s redemption proceeds to other
persons upon instructions received from the investor. 60
ii.

Definition of Creditor

The Commissions’ final definitions of “creditor” refer to the definition of “creditor” in
the FCRA as amended by the Clarification Act. 61 The FCRA now defines “creditor,” for
purposes of the red flags rules, as a creditor as defined in the Equal Credit Opportunity Act 62
(“ECOA”) (i.e., a person that regularly extends, renews or continues credit, 63 or makes those

59

A “private fund” is “an issuer that would be an investment company, as defined in section 3 of
the Investment Company Act, but for section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of that Act.” 15 U.S.C. § 80b2(a)(29).

60

On the other hand, an investment adviser may not hold a transaction account if the adviser has a
narrowly-drafted power of attorney with an investor under which the adviser has no authority to
redirect the investor’s investment proceeds to third parties or others upon instructions from the
investor.

61

See § 162.30(b)(5) (CFTC); § 248.201(b)(5) (SEC); see also supra note 31.

62

Section 702(e) of the ECOA defines “creditor” to mean “any person who regularly extends,
renews, or continues credit; any person who regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or
continuation of credit; or any assignee of an original creditor who participates in the decision to
extend, renew, or continue credit.” 15 U.S.C. 1691a(e).

63

The Commissions are defining “credit” by reference to its definition in the FCRA. See
§ 162.30(b)(4) (CFTC); § 248.201(b)(4) (SEC). That definition refers to the definition of credit
in the ECOA, which means “the right granted by a creditor to a debtor to defer payment of debt or
to incur debts and defer its payment or to purchase property or services and defer payment
therefor.” The Agencies defined “credit” in the same manner in their identity theft red flags rules.
See, e.g., 16 CFR 681.1(b)(4) (FTC) (defining “credit” as having the same meaning as in 15

19

arrangements) that “regularly and in the course of business … advances funds to or on behalf of
a person, based on an obligation of the person to repay the funds or repayable from specific
property pledged by or on behalf of the person.” 64 The FCRA excludes from this definition a
creditor that “advances funds on behalf of a person for expenses incidental to a service provided
by the creditor to that person ….” 65
The CFTC’s definition of “creditor” includes certain entities (such as FCMs and CTAs)
that regularly extend, renew or continue credit or make those credit arrangements. 66 The
proposed definition applies the definition of “creditor” from 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4) to “any
futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor,
commodity pool operator, introducing broker, swap dealer, or major swap participant that
regularly extends, renews, or continues credit; regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or
continuation of credit; or in acting as an assignee of an original creditor, participates in the
decision to extend, renew, or continue credit.” 67 One commenter stated that the proposed
definition was overly broad and unclear because it did not appear to include derivative clearing
U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5), which defines “credit” as having the same meaning as in section 702 of the
ECOA).
64

15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4)(A)(iii). The FCRA defines a “creditor” also to include a creditor (as
defined in the ECOA) that “regularly and in the ordinary course of business (i) obtains or uses
consumer reports, directly or indirectly, in connection with a credit transaction; (ii) furnishes
information to consumer reporting agencies ... in connection with a credit transaction ....” 15
U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4)(A)(i)–(ii).

65

FCRA § 615(e)(4)(B), 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4)(B). The Clarification Act does not define the
extent to which the advancement of funds for expenses would be considered “incidental” to
services rendered by the creditor. The legislative history indicates that the Clarification Act was
intended to ensure that lawyers, doctors, and other small businesses that may advance funds to
pay for services such as expert witnesses, or that may bill in arrears for services provided, should
not be considered creditors under the red flags rules. See 156 Cong. Rec. S8288-9 (daily ed. Nov.
30, 2010) (statements of Senators Thune and Dodd).

66

See § 162.30(b)(5).

67

See § 162.30(b)(7).

20

organizations (“DCOs”) such as the Options Clearing Corporation, while the SEC’s definition
could be read to include DCOs, and recommended that DCOs be explicitly excluded from the
definition. 68 The commenter further requested that the Commissions specifically exclude DCOs
from the scope of the Proposed Rules.
As the commenter noted, the CFTC’s definition of “creditor” excludes DCOs because
DCOs are not included on the list of entities that may qualify as creditors under the rule. Under
the proposed CFTC rules, a “creditor” includes any FCM, RFED, CTA, CPO, IB, SD, or MSP
that regularly extends, renews, or continues credit or makes credit arrangements. Unlike DCOs,
the listed entities which are included in the CFTC definition of “creditor” engage in retail
customer business and maintain retail customer accounts. These entities are included as potential
creditors in the definition because they are the CFTC registrants most likely to collect personal
consumer data. Moreover, this list of potential creditors is consistent with the general scope
provisions of the part 162 rules, which also apply to FCMs, RFEDs, CTAs, CPOs, IBs, SDs, or
MSPs.69 Accordingly, the CFTC declines to provide a specific exclusion for DCOs from the
scope of the rule.
As proposed, the SEC’s definition of “creditor” referred to the definition of “creditor”
under FCRA, and stated that it “includes lenders such as brokers or dealers offering margin
accounts, securities lending services, and short selling services.” 70 The SEC proposed to name
these entities in the definition because they are likely to qualify as “creditors,” since the funds
advanced in these accounts do not appear to be for “expenses incidental to a service provided.”

68

OCC Comment Letter.

69

See § 162.1(b).

70

See proposed § 248.201(b)(5).

21

One commenter, the Options Clearing Corporation, argued that the proposed definition’s
reference to securities lending services could be read to mean that an intermediary in securities
lending transactions is a “creditor” under the SEC’s rules, even if the entity does not meet
FCRA’s definition of “creditor.” 71 The SEC intended the proposed definition of “creditor” to be
limited to the FCRA definition, and to include relevant examples of activities that could qualify
an entity as a creditor. In order to clarify this definition and avoid an inadvertently broad
meaning of the term “creditor,” we are revising the definition to rely on FCRA’s statutory
definition of the term and omit the references to specific types of lending, such as margin
accounts, securities lending services, and short selling services. 72
Some commenters stated that most investment advisers would probably not qualify as
creditors under the definition. 73 One commenter believed that the proposal might have implied
that investment advisers were subject to a different standard than other entities under the
definition of “creditor,” and requested that we clarify that investment advisers may, like all other
entities, take advantage of the exception in the definition to advance funds on behalf of a person
for expenses incidental to a service provided by the creditor to that person. 74 Our final rules do
not treat investment advisers differently than any other entity under the definition of “creditor.” 75
71

OCC Comment Letter.

72

See § 248.201(b)(5).

73

See, e.g., MarketCounsel Comment Letter; NSCP Comment Letter (“We agree with the proposal
that investment advisers are not creditors for purposes of the proposal because advisers generally
do not bill in arrears. We are not aware of any situation where an investment adviser would
advance funds and we would note that such advisers would likely run afoul of state rules that
prohibit an adviser from loaning funds or borrowing funds from a client.”).

74

MarketCounsel Comment Letter.

75

The definition of “creditor” in FCRA also authorizes the Agencies and the Commissions to
include other entities in the definition of “creditor” if the Commissions determine that those
entities offer or maintain accounts that are subject to a reasonably foreseeable risk of identity
theft. 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4)(C). One commenter urged the Commissions not to exercise this

22

An investment adviser could potentially qualify as a creditor if it “advances funds” to an investor
that are not for expenses incidental to services provided by that adviser. For example, a private
fund adviser that regularly and in the ordinary course of business lends money, short-term or
otherwise, to permit investors to make an investment in the fund, pending the receipt or
clearance of an investor’s check or wire transfer, could qualify as a creditor. 76
iii.

Definition of Covered Account and Other Terms

Under the final rules, a financial institution or creditor must establish a red flags Program
if it offers or maintains “covered accounts.” As in the proposed rules, the Commissions are
defining the term “covered account” in the final rules as: (i) an account that a financial
institution or creditor offers or maintains, primarily for personal, family, or household purposes,
that involves or is designed to permit multiple payments or transactions; and (ii) any other
account that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains for which there is a
reasonably foreseeable risk to customers 77 or to the safety and soundness of the financial
institution or creditor from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance,
reputation, or litigation risks. 78 The CFTC’s definition includes a margin account as an example
of a covered account. 79 The SEC’s definition includes, as examples of a covered account, a

authority, and particularly not to include clearing organizations as creditors under the definition.
See OCC Comment Letter (“We believe there is no reasonable basis for concluding that the
securities loan clearing services offered by OCC as described above would pose a reasonably
foreseeable risk of identity theft or that such services should cause OCC to be considered a
‘creditor.’”). The Commissions did not propose to specifically include clearing organizations in
the definition of “creditor” under this authority, and the final rules do not include any additional
types of entities in the definition of “creditor” that are not already included in the statutory
definition.
76

However, a private fund adviser would not qualify as a creditor solely because its private funds
regularly borrow money from third-party credit facilities pending receipt of investor
contributions, as the definition of “creditor” does not include “indirect” creditors.

23

brokerage account with a broker-dealer or an account maintained by a mutual fund (or its agent)
that permits wire transfers or other payments to third parties. 80
The Commissions are defining an “account” as a “continuing relationship established by
a person with a financial institution or creditor to obtain a product or service for personal, family,
household or business purposes.” 81 The CFTC’s definition specifically includes an extension of
credit, such as the purchase of property or services involving a deferred payment. 82 The SEC’s

77

To be a financial institution, an entity must hold a transaction account with at least one
“consumer” (defined as an “individual” in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(c)). However, once an entity is a
financial institution, it must periodically determine whether it offers or maintains “covered
accounts” to or on behalf of its customers, which may be individuals or business entities.
Sections 162.30(b)(6) (CFTC) and 248.201(b)(6) (SEC) define “customer” to mean a person that
has a covered account with a financial institution or creditor. The Commissions are including this
definition for two reasons. First, this definition is the same as the definition of “customer” in the
Agencies’ final rules. Second, because the definition uses the term “person,” it covers various
types of business entities (e.g., small businesses) that could be victims of identity theft. 15 U.S.C.
1681a(b). Although the definition of “customer” is broad, not every account held by or offered to
a customer will be considered a covered account, as the identification of covered accounts under
the identity theft red flags rules is based on a risk-based determination. See infra notes 95–100
and accompanying text.

78

§ 162.30(b)(3) (CFTC) and § 248.201(b)(3) (SEC). The Agencies’ 2007 Adopting Release
(which included an identical definition of the term “account”) noted that “the definition of
‘account’ still applies to fiduciary, agency, custodial, brokerage and investment advisory
activities.” 2007 Adopting Release supra note 8, at 63721.

79

See § 162.30(b)(3)(i).

80

See § 248.201(b)(3)(i).

81

§ 162.30(b)(1) (CFTC) and § 248.201(b)(1) (SEC). Two commenters requested further guidance
on the meaning of “continuing relationship” in the proposed definition of the term “account.”
Comment Letter of Nathaniel Washburn (April 12, 2012); Comment Letter of Chris Barnard
(“Chris Barnard Comment Letter”) (Mar. 29, 2012). The SEC and the CFTC’s definition of
“account” is the same as that adopted by the Agencies. The Agencies’ 2007 Adopting Release
provides further guidance on the meaning of continuing relationship, noting that it is designed to
exclude single, non-continuing transactions by non-customers. 2007 Adopting Release supra
note 8, at 63721.

82

§ 162.30(b)(1).

24

definition includes, as examples of accounts, “a brokerage account, a mutual fund account (i.e.,
an account with an open-end investment company), and an investment advisory account.” 83
In the Proposing Release, the Commissions noted that “entities that adopt red flags
Programs would focus their attention on ‘covered accounts’ for indicia of possible identity
theft.” 84 In response to this statement, one commenter recommended revising the definition of
“covered account” such that entities adopting red flags Programs would focus particularly on
protecting various types of information provided by customers, rather than focusing on particular
categories of accounts. 85 The Commissions have decided not to revise the definition of “covered
account” as suggested by this commenter, because the Commissions believe that by focusing the
rules on the types of accounts that might pose a reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft,
financial institutions and creditors are best able to protect the information that customers provide
in the course of holding these accounts. Moreover, the current definition and scope of the term
“covered account” are similar to the provisions of the other Agencies’ identity theft red flags
rules. 86 As discussed below, the Commissions believe that the final rules’ terms should be
defined as the Agencies defined them in their respective final rules, where appropriate, to foster
consistent regulations. 87
Two commenters argued that insurance company separate accounts are unlikely to be
covered accounts because they are not established for personal, family, or household purposes

83

§ 248.201(b)(1).

84

77 FR 13450, 13454.

85

See Comment Letter of Kenneth Orgoglioso (May 7, 2012).

86

See, e.g, 16 CFR 681.1(b)(3).

87

See infra note 93 and accompanying text.

25

and do not pose a reasonably foreseeable risk of identity theft. 88 They contended that insurance
company separate accounts are investment vehicles underlying variable life and annuity
insurance products, and generally individual customers do not have a direct relationship with
these accounts. One of the commenters requested that the definition of “covered account”
specifically exclude insurance company separate accounts. 89 The commenter noted that because
third parties and customers do not have direct access to insurance company separate accounts,
there is little risk of identity theft in these accounts. 90
The final rules require all financial institutions and creditors to assess whether they offer
or maintain covered accounts. Although, as discussed above, some commenters suggested that
insurance company separate accounts may not qualify as covered accounts under the definition,
the final rule does not exclude insurance company separate accounts from the definition of
“covered account” because it would be impracticable to provide an exhaustive list of account
types that are not covered accounts. Similarly, one commenter requested that the SEC list all of
the types of accounts that would be “covered accounts” under the rules. 91 The rules provide
examples of covered accounts, but we cannot anticipate all of the types of accounts that could be
covered accounts. Any list that attempts to encompass all types of covered accounts would
likely be under-inclusive and would not take into account future business practices. 92 The
88

Comment Letter of the American Council of Life Insurers (May 7, 2012); FSR/SIFMA Comment
Letter.

89

FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter.

90

See id. (“Further, third parties, including customers, do not have direct access to Separate
Accounts, which means that the types of identity theft risks anticipated by the proposed Red Flags
Rules are essentially nonexistent.”).

91
92

Id.
For example, an institution that holds only business accounts may decide later to offer accounts
for personal, family, or household purposes that permit multiple payments. The rule’s
requirement that a financial institution or creditor periodically determine whether it holds covered

26

definition of “covered account” is deliberately designed to be flexible to allow the financial
institution or creditor to determine which accounts pose a reasonably foreseeable risk of identity
theft and protect them accordingly. Therefore, we are adopting the definitions of “account” and
“covered account” as they were proposed.
The identity theft red flags rules also define several other terms as the Agencies defined
them in their final rules, where appropriate, to foster consistent regulations. 93 In addition, terms
that the SEC’s rules do not define have the same meaning they have in FCRA. 94
iv.

Determination of Whether a Covered Account is Offered or Maintained

As under the proposed rules, under the final rules, each financial institution or creditor
must periodically determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts. 95 As a part of this
periodic determination, a financial institution or creditor must conduct a risk assessment that
accounts is designed to require that these entities re-evaluate whether they in fact hold any
covered accounts. See infra notes 95 and 96 and accompanying text.
93

See § 162.30(b)(4) (CFTC) and § 248.201(b)(4) (SEC) (definition of “credit”); § 162.30(b)(6)
(CFTC) and § 248.201(b)(6) (SEC) (definition of “customer”); § 162.30(b)(7) (CFTC) and
§ 248.201(b)(7) (SEC) (definition of “financial institution”); § 162.30(b)(10) (CFTC) and
§ 248.201(b)(10) (SEC) (definition of “red flag”); § 162.30(b)(11) (CFTC) and § 248.201(b)(11)
(SEC) (definition of “service provider”).
The Agencies defined “identity theft” in their identity theft red flags rules by referring to a
definition previously adopted by the FTC. See, e.g., 12 CFR 334.90(b)(8) (FDIC). The FTC
defined “identity theft” as “a fraud committed or attempted using the identifying information of
another person without authority.” See 16 CFR 603.2(a). The FTC also has defined “identifying
information,” a term used in its definition of “identity theft.” See 16 CFR 603.2(b). The
Commissions are defining the terms “identifying information” and “identity theft” by including
the same definitions of the terms as they appear in 16 CFR 603.2. See § 162.30(b)(8) and (9)
(CFTC); § 248.201(b)(8) and (9) (SEC). One commenter suggested that we add the following
highlighted language to the definition of “identity theft” so that it would read a “fraud, deception,
or other crime committed or attempted using the identifying information of another person
without authority.” Chris Barnard Comment Letter. Changing the definition of “identity theft”
so that it differs from the definition used by the Agencies could lead to higher compliance costs,
reduce comparability of the Agencies’ rules in contravention of the statutory mandate, and pose
difficulties for entities within the enforcement authority of multiple agencies. Accordingly, we
are adopting the definition of “identity theft” as it was proposed.

94

See § 248.201(b)(12)(vi) (SEC).

27

takes into consideration: (1) the methods it provides to open its accounts; (2) the methods it
provides to access its accounts; and (3) its previous experiences with identity theft. 96 A financial
institution or creditor should consider whether, for example, a reasonably foreseeable risk of
identity theft may exist in connection with accounts it offers or maintains that may be opened or
accessed remotely or through methods that do not require face-to-face contact, such as through
email or the Internet, or by telephone. In addition, if financial institutions or creditors offer or
maintain accounts that have been the target of identity theft, they should factor those experiences
into their determination. The Commissions anticipate that entities will be able to demonstrate
that they have complied with applicable requirements, including their recurring determinations
regarding covered accounts. 97
The Commissions acknowledge that some financial institutions or creditors regulated by
the Commissions do not offer or maintain accounts for personal, family, or household
purposes, 98 and engage predominantly in transactions with businesses, where the risk of identity
theft is minimal. In these instances, the financial institution or creditor may determine after a
preliminary risk assessment that the accounts it offers or maintains do not pose a reasonably
foreseeable risk to customers or to its own safety and soundness from identity theft, and therefore
it does not need to develop and implement a Program because it does not offer or maintain any

95

§ 162.30(c) (CFTC) and § 248.201(c) (SEC).

96

§ 162.30(c) (CFTC) and § 248.201(c) (SEC).

97

See, e.g., FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS: IDENTITY THEFT RED FLAGS AND ADDRESS
DISCREPANCIES at I.1, available at http://www.ftc.gov/os/2009/06/090611redflagsfaq.pdf (noting
in joint interpretive guidance provided by the Agencies’ staff that, while the Agencies’ 2007
identity theft rules do not contain specific record retention requirements, financial institutions and
creditors must be able to demonstrate that they have complied with the rules’ requirements).

98

See § 162.30(b)(3)(i) (CFTC) and § 248.201(b)(3)(i) (SEC).

28

“covered accounts.” 99 Alternatively, the financial institution or creditor may determine that only
a limited range of its accounts present a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers, and therefore
may decide to develop and implement a Program that applies only to those accounts or types of
accounts. 100 As proposed, under the final rules, a financial institution or creditor that initially
determines that it does not need to have a Program is required to periodically reassess whether it
must develop and implement a Program in light of changes in the accounts that it offers or
maintains and the various other factors set forth in sections 162.30(c) (CFTC) and 248.201(c)
(SEC).
2.

The Objectives of the Program

The final rules provide that each financial institution or creditor that offers or maintains
one or more covered accounts must develop and implement a written Program designed to
detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account
or any existing covered account. 101 These provisions also require that each Program be
appropriate to the size and complexity of the financial institution or creditor and the nature and
scope of its activities. Thus, the final rules are designed to be scalable, by permitting Programs
that take into account the operations of smaller institutions. We received no comment on the
proposed objectives of the Program and are adopting them as proposed.

99

See § 162.30(b)(3)(ii) (CFTC) and § 248.201(b)(3)(ii) (SEC). For example, an FCM that is
otherwise subject to the identity theft red flags rules and that handles accounts only for large,
institutional investors might make a risk-based determination that because it is subject to a low
risk of identity theft, it does not need to develop and implement a Program. Similarly, a money
market fund that is otherwise subject to the identity theft red flags rules but that permits
investments only by other institutions and separately verifies and authenticates transaction
requests might make such a risk-based determination that it need not develop a Program.

100

Even a Program limited in scale, however, needs to comply with all of the provisions of the rules.
See, e.g., § 162.30(d)–(f) (CFTC) and § 248.201(d)–(f) (SEC) (program requirements).

101

See § 162.30(d)(1) (CFTC) and § 248.201(d)(1) (SEC).

29

3.

The Elements of the Program

The final rules set out the four elements that financial institutions and creditors must
include in their Programs. 102 These elements are being adopted as proposed and are identical to
the elements required under the Agencies’ final identity theft red flags rules. 103
First, the final rules require a financial institution or creditor to develop a Program that
includes reasonable policies and procedures to identify relevant red flags 104 for the covered
accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, and incorporate those red
flags into the Program. 105 Rather than singling out specific red flags as mandatory or requiring
specific policies and procedures to identify possible red flags, this first element provides
financial institutions and creditors with flexibility in determining which red flags are relevant to
their businesses and the covered accounts they manage over time. The list of factors that a
financial institution or creditor should consider (as well as examples) are included in Section II
of the guidelines, which appear at the end of the final rules. 106 Given the changing nature of
identity theft, the Commissions believe that this element allows financial institutions or creditors
to respond and adapt to new forms of identity theft and the attendant risks as they arise.

102

See § 162.30(d)(2) (CFTC) and § 248.201(d)(2) (SEC).

103

See 2007 Adopting Release, supra note 8, at 63726–63730.

104

§ 162.30(b)(10) (CFTC) and § 248.201(b)(10) (SEC) define “red flag” to mean a pattern,
practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible existence of identity theft.

105

See § 162.30(d)(2)(i) (CFTC) § 248.201(d)(2)(i) (SEC). The board of directors, appropriate
committee thereof, or designated senior management employee may determine that a Program
designed by a parent, subsidiary, or affiliated entity is also appropriate for use by the financial
institution or creditor. In making such a determination, the board (or committee or designated
employee) must conduct an independent review to ensure that the Program is suitable and
complies with the requirements of the red flags rules. See 2007 Adopting Release, supra note 8,
at 63730.

106

See Section II.B.2 below.

30

Second, the final rules require financial institutions and creditors to have reasonable
policies and procedures to detect the red flags that the Program incorporates. 107 This element
does not provide a specific method of detection. Instead, section III of the guidelines provides
examples of various means to detect red flags. 108
Third, the final rules require financial institutions and creditors to have reasonable
policies and procedures to respond appropriately to any red flags that they detect. 109 This
element incorporates the requirement that a financial institution or creditor assess whether the
red flags that are detected evidence a risk of identity theft and, if so, determine how to respond
appropriately based on the degree of risk. Section IV of the guidelines sets out a list of
aggravating factors and examples that a financial institution or creditor should consider in
determining the appropriate response. 110
Finally, the rules require financial institutions and creditors to have reasonable policies
and procedures to periodically update the Program (including the red flags determined to be
relevant), to reflect changes in risks to customers and to the safety and soundness of the financial
institution or creditor from identity theft. 111 As discussed above, financial institutions and
creditors are required to determine which red flags are relevant to their businesses and the
covered accounts they offer or maintain. The Commissions are requiring a periodic update,
rather than immediate or continuous updates, to be parallel with the identity theft red flags rules
of the Agencies and to avoid unnecessary regulatory burdens. Section V of the guidelines
107

See § 162.30(d)(2)(ii) (CFTC) and § 248.201(d)(2)(ii) (SEC).

108

See Section II.B.3 below.

109

See § 162.30(d)(2)(iii) (CFTC) and § 248.201(d)(2)(iii) (SEC).

110

See Section II.B.4 below.

111

See § 162.30(d)(2)(iv) (CFTC) and § 248.201(d)(2)(iv) (SEC).

31

provides a set of factors that should cause a financial institution or creditor to update its
Program. 112 We received no comment on the proposed elements of Programs and are adopting
them as proposed.
4.

Administration of the Program

The final rules provide direction to financial institutions and creditors regarding the
administration of Programs as a means of enhancing the effectiveness of those Programs. 113
First, the final rules require that a financial institution or creditor obtain approval of the initial
written Program from either its board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board of
directors, or if the entity does not have a board, from a designated senior management
employee. 114 This requirement highlights the responsibility of the board of directors in
approving a Program. One commenter asked us to clarify that an entity that already has an
existing Program in place, in compliance with the other Agencies’ rules, need not have the board
reapprove the Program to comply with this requirement. 115 We agree that if a financial
institution or creditor already has a Program in place, the board is not required to reapprove the
existing Program in response to this requirement, provided the Program otherwise meets the
requirements of the final rules.
Second, the final rules provide that financial institutions and creditors must involve the
board of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a designated senior management

112

See Section II.B.5 below.

113

See § 162.30(e) (CFTC) and § 248.201(e) (SEC).

114

See § 162.30(e)(1) (CFTC) and § 248.201(e)(1) (SEC), see also § 162.30(b)(2) (CFTC) and
§ 248.201(b)(2) (SEC).

115

ICI Comment Letter.

32

employee in the oversight, development, implementation, and administration of the Program. 116
The designated senior management employee who is responsible for the oversight of a
broker-dealer’s, investment company’s or investment adviser’s Program may be the entity’s
chief compliance officer. 117 Third, the final rules provide that financial institutions and creditors
must train staff, as necessary, to effectively implement their Programs. 118
Finally, the rules provide that financial institutions and creditors must exercise
appropriate and effective oversight of service provider arrangements. 119 The Commissions
believe that it is important that the rules address service provider arrangements so that financial
institutions and creditors remain legally responsible for compliance with the rules, irrespective of
whether such financial institutions and creditors outsource their identity theft red flags detection,
prevention, and mitigation operations to a service provider. 120 The final rules do not prescribe a
specific manner in which appropriate and effective oversight of service provider arrangements
must occur. Instead, the requirement provides flexibility to financial institutions and creditors in
maintaining their service provider arrangements, while making clear that such institutions and

116

See § 162.30(e)(2) (CFTC) and § 248.201(e)(2) (SEC). Section VI of the guidelines elaborates
on this provision.

117

See, e.g., rule 38a-1(a)(4) under the Investment Company Act (addressing the chief compliance
officer position), 17 CFR 270.38a-1(a)(4); rule 206(4)-7(c) under the Investment Advisers Act,
17 CFR 275.206(4)-7 (same).

118

See § 162.30(e)(3) (CFTC) and § 248.201(e)(3) (SEC).

119

See § 162.30(e)(4) (CFTC) and § 248.201(e)(4) (SEC). § 162.30(b)(11) (CFTC) and
§ 248.201(b)(11) (SEC) define the term “service provider” to mean a person that provides a
service directly to the financial institution or creditor.

120

For example, a financial institution or creditor that uses a service provider to open accounts on its
behalf, could reserve for itself the responsibility to verify the identity of a person opening a new
account, may direct the service provider to do so, or may use another service provider to verify
identity. Ultimately, however, the financial institution or creditor remains responsible for
ensuring that the activity is conducted in compliance with a Program that meets the requirements
of the identity theft red flags rules.

33

creditors are still required to fulfill their legal compliance obligations. 121 We received no
comments on the substance of this aspect of the proposal 122 and are adopting the requirements
related to the administration of Programs as proposed.
B.

Final Guidelines

As amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, section 615(e)(1)(A) of the FCRA provides that the
Commissions must jointly “establish and maintain guidelines for use by each financial institution
and each creditor regarding identity theft with respect to account holders at, or customers of,
such entities, and update such guidelines as often as necessary.” 123 Accordingly, the
Commissions are jointly adopting guidelines in an appendix to the final identity theft red flags
rules that are intended to assist financial institutions and creditors in the formulation and
maintenance of a Program that satisfies the requirements of the rules. These guidelines are
substantially similar to the guidelines adopted by the Agencies.
The final rules require each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement a
Program to consider the guidelines and include in its Program those guidelines that are
appropriate. 124 The Program needs to contain reasonable policies and procedures to fulfill the
requirements of the final rules, even if a financial institution or creditor determines that one or

121

These legal compliance obligations include, but are not limited to, the maintenance of records in
connection with any service provider arrangements. See 17 CFR 240.17a-4(b)(7) (requiring that
each broker-dealer maintain a record of all written agreements entered into by the broker-dealer
relating to its business as such); 17 CFR 275.204-2(a)(10) (requiring that each investment adviser
maintain a record of all written agreements entered into by the investment adviser with any client
or otherwise relating to the business of the investment adviser as such).

122

But see infra note 143 and accompanying text (discussing a comment received on the costs
associated with this aspect of the proposal).

123

15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(1)(A).

124

See § 162.30(f) (CFTC) and § 248.201(f) (SEC).

34

more guidelines are not appropriate for its circumstances. We received no comment on the
guidelines, and the Commissions are adopting them as proposed.
1.

Section I of the Guidelines–Identity Theft Prevention Program

Section I of the guidelines makes clear that a financial institution or creditor may
incorporate into its Program, as appropriate, its existing policies, procedures, and other
arrangements that control reasonably foreseeable risks to customers or to the safety and
soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft. An example of such existing
policies, procedures, and other arrangements may include other policies, procedures, and
arrangements that the financial institution or creditor has developed to prevent fraud or otherwise
ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
2.

Section II of the Guidelines –Identifying Relevant Red Flags

Section II(a) of the guidelines sets out several risk factors that a financial institution or
creditor must consider in identifying relevant red flags for covered accounts, as appropriate.
These risk factors are: (i) the types of covered accounts a financial institution or creditor offers
or maintains; (ii) the methods it provides to open or access its covered accounts; and (iii) its
previous experiences with identity theft. Thus, for example, red flags relevant to one type of
covered account may differ from those relevant to another type of covered account. Under the
guidelines, a financial institution or creditor also should consider identifying as relevant those
red flags that directly relate to its previous experiences with identity theft.
Section II(b) of the guidelines sets out examples of sources from which financial
institutions and creditors should derive relevant red flags. As discussed in the Proposing
Release, this section of the guidelines does not require financial institutions and creditors to
incorporate relevant red flags strictly from these sources. Instead, financial institutions and
creditors must consider them when developing a Program.
35

Section II(c) of the guidelines identifies five categories of red flags that financial
institutions and creditors must consider including in their Programs, as appropriate:
•

Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer reporting agencies
or service providers, such as fraud detection services;

•

Presentation of suspicious documents, such as documents that appear to have been
altered or forged;

•

Presentation of suspicious personal identifying information, such as a suspicious
address change;

•

Unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a covered account; and

•

Notice from customers, victims of identity theft, law enforcement authorities, or
other persons regarding possible identity theft in connection with covered accounts
held by the financial institution or creditor.

Supplement A to the guidelines includes a non-comprehensive list of examples of red flags from
each of these categories.
3.

Section III of the Guidelines–Detecting Red Flags

Section III of the guidelines provides examples of policies and procedures that a financial
institution or creditor must consider including in its Program’s policies and procedures for the
purpose of detecting red flags. As discussed in the Proposing Release, entities that are currently
subject to the Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules, 125 the federal customer identification
program (“CIP”) rules 126 or other Bank Secrecy Act rules, 127 the Federal Financial Institutions
125

See 2007 Adopting Release, supra note 8.

126

See, e.g., 31 CFR 1023.220 (broker-dealers), 1024.220 (mutual funds), and 1026.220 (futures
commission merchants and introducing brokers). The CIP regulations implement section 326 of
the USA PATRIOT Act, codified at 31 U.S.C. 5318(l).

36

Examination Council’s guidance on authentication, 128 or the Interagency Guidelines Establishing
Information Security Standards 129 may already be engaged in detecting red flags. These entities
may wish to integrate the policies and procedures already developed for purposes of complying
with these rules and standards into their Programs. However, such policies and procedures may
need to be supplemented. 130
4.

Section IV of the Guidelines–Preventing and Mitigating Identity Theft

Section IV of the guidelines states that a Program’s policies and procedures should
provide for appropriate responses to the red flags that a financial institution or creditor has
detected, that are commensurate with the degree of risk posed by each red flag. In determining
an appropriate response, under the guidelines, a financial institution or creditor is required to
consider aggravating factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft. Section IV of the
guidelines also provides several examples of appropriate responses. These examples are
identical to those included in the Agencies’ final guidelines. Financial institutions and creditors
also may consider adopting measures to prevent and mitigate identity theft that are not listed in
the guidelines.

127

See, e.g., 31 CFR 103.130 (anti-money laundering programs for mutual funds).

128

See “Authentication in an Internet Banking Environment,” available at
http://www.ffiec.gov/pdf/authentication_guidance.pdf.

129

See 12 CFR part 30, app. B (national banks); 12 CFR part 208, app. D-2 and part 225, app. F
(state member banks and bank holding companies); 12 CFR part 364, app. B (state non-member
banks); 12 CFR part 570, app. B (savings associations); 12 CFR part 748, app. A (credit unions).

130

For example, the CIP rules were written to implement section 326 (31 U.S.C. 5318(l)) of the USA
PATRIOT Act (Pub. L. 107-56 (2001)), and certain types of “accounts,” “customers,” and
products are exempted or treated specially in the CIP rules because they pose a lower risk of
money laundering or terrorist financing. Such special treatment may not be appropriate to
accomplish the broader objective of detecting, preventing, and mitigating identity theft.

37

5.

Section V of the Guidelines–Updating the Identity Theft Prevention
Program

Section V of the guidelines includes a list of factors on which a financial institution or
creditor could base the periodic updates to its Program. These factors are: (i) the experiences of
the financial institution or creditor with identity theft; (ii) changes in methods of identity theft;
(iii) changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft; (iv) changes in the types
of accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains; and (v) changes in the
business arrangements of the financial institution or creditor, including mergers, acquisitions,
alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.
6.

Section VI of the Guidelines–Methods for Administering the Identity Theft
Prevention Program

Section VI of the guidelines provides additional guidance for financial institutions and
creditors to consider in administering their Programs. These guideline provisions are
substantially identical to those prescribed by the Agencies in their final guidelines.
i.

Oversight of Identity Theft Prevention Program

Section VI(a) of the guidelines states that oversight by the board of directors, an
appropriate committee of the board, or a designated senior management employee should
include: (i) assigning specific responsibility for the Program's implementation; (ii) reviewing
reports prepared by staff regarding compliance by the financial institution or creditor with the
final rules; and (iii) approving material changes to the Program as necessary to address changing
identity theft risks.
ii.

Reporting to the Board of Directors

Section VI(b) of the guidelines states that staff of the financial institution or creditor
responsible for development, implementation, and administration of its Program should report to

the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated senior management
employee, at least annually, on compliance by the financial institution or creditor with the final
rules. In addition, section VI(b) of the guidelines provides that the report should address
material matters related to the Program and evaluate issues such as recommendations for
material changes to the Program. 131
iii.

Oversight of Service Provider Arrangements

Section VI(c) of the guidelines provides that whenever a financial institution or creditor
engages a service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more covered
accounts, the financial institution or creditor should take steps to ensure that the activity of the
service provider is conducted in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures designed to
detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. As discussed in the Proposing Release, the
Commissions believe that these guidelines make clear that a service provider that provides
services to multiple financial institutions and creditors may do so in accordance with its own
program to prevent identity theft, as long as the service provider’s program meets the
requirements of the identity theft red flags rules.
Section VI(c) of the guidelines also includes, as an example of how a financial institution
or creditor may comply with this provision, that a financial institution or creditor could require
the service provider by contract to have policies and procedures to detect relevant red flags that
may arise in the performance of the service provider’s activities, and either report the red flags to
the financial institution or creditor, or to take appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity
131

The other issues referenced in the guideline are: (i) the effectiveness of the policies and
procedures of the financial institution or creditor in addressing the risk of identity theft in
connection with the opening of covered accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
(ii) service provider arrangements; and (iii) significant incidents involving identity theft and
management’s response.

39

theft. In those circumstances, the Commissions expect that the contractual arrangements would
include the provision of sufficient documentation by the service provider to the financial
institution or creditor to enable it to assess compliance with the identity theft red flags rules.
7.

Section VII of the Guidelines–Other Applicable Legal Requirements

Section VII of the guidelines identifies other applicable legal requirements from the
FCRA and USA PATRIOT Act that financial institutions and creditors should keep in mind
when developing, implementing, and administering their Programs.
8.

Supplement A to the Guidelines

Supplement A to the guidelines provides illustrative examples of red flags that financial
institutions and creditors are required to consider incorporating into their Programs, as
appropriate. These examples are substantially similar to the examples identified in the Agencies’
final guidelines. The examples are organized under the five categories of red flags that are set
forth in section II(c) of the guidelines.
The Commissions recognize that some of the examples of red flags may be more reliable
indicators of identity theft, while others are more reliable when detected in combination with
other red flags. The Commissions intend that Supplement A to the guidelines be flexible and
allow a financial institution or creditor to tailor the red flags it chooses for its Program to its own
operations. Although the final rules do not require a financial institution or creditor to justify to
the Commissions failure to include in its Program a specific red flag from the list of examples, a
financial institution or creditor has to account for the overall effectiveness of its Program, and
ensure that the Program is appropriate to the entity’s size and complexity, and to the nature and
scope of its activities.

40

C.

Final Card Issuer Rules

Section 615(e)(1)(C) of the FCRA provides that the CFTC and SEC must “prescribe
regulations applicable to card issuers to ensure that, if a card issuer receives notification of a
change of address for an existing account, and within a short period of time (during at least the
first 30 days after such notification is received) receives a request for an additional or
replacement card for the same account, the card issuer may not issue the additional or
replacement card, unless the card issuer applies certain address validation procedures.” 132
Accordingly, the Commissions are adopting rules that set out the duties of card issuers regarding
changes of address. 133 These rules are similar to the final card issuer rules adopted by the
Agencies. 134 The rules apply only to a person that issues a debit or credit card (“card issuer”)
and that is subject to the enforcement authority of either Commission. 135 The Commissions did
not receive any comments on the card issuer rules, and are adopting them as proposed.
As discussed in the Proposing Release, the CFTC is not aware of any entities subject to
its enforcement authority that issue debit or credit cards and, as a matter of practice, believes that
it is highly unlikely that CFTC-regulated entities would issue debit or credit cards. As also
discussed in the Proposing Release, the SEC understands that a number of entities within its
enforcement authority issue cards in partnership with affiliated or unaffiliated banks and
financial institutions, but that these cards are generally issued by the partner bank, and not by the
SEC-regulated entity. The SEC therefore expects that no entities within its enforcement
authority will be subject to the card issuer rules.
132

15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(1)(C).

133

See § 162.32 (CFTC) and § 248.202 (SEC).

134

See, e.g., 16 CFR 681.3 (FTC).

135

See supra Section II.A.1.

41

III.

RELATED MATTERS
A.

Cost-Benefit Considerations (CFTC) and Economic Analysis (SEC)

CFTC:
Section 15(a) of the CEA 136 requires the CFTC to consider the costs and benefits of its
actions before promulgating a regulation under the CEA or issuing certain orders. Section 15(a)
further specifies that the costs and benefits shall be evaluated in light of the following five broad
areas of market and public concern: (1) protection of market participants and the public; (2)
efficiency, competitiveness, and financial integrity of futures markets; (3) price discovery; (4)
sound risk management practices; and (5) other public interest considerations. The CFTC
considers the costs and benefits resulting from its discretionary determinations with respect to
the section 15(a) considerations. 137 In the paragraphs that follow, the CFTC summarizes the
proposal and comments to the same before considering the costs and benefits of the final rule in
light of the 15(a) considerations.
Cost-Benefit Considerations of Identity Theft Red Flags Rules
Background and Proposal. As discussed above, section 1088 of the Dodd-Frank Act
transferred authority over certain parts of FCRA from the Agencies to the CFTC and the SEC for
entities they regulate. On February 28, 2012, the CFTC, together with the SEC, issued proposed
rules to help protect investors from identity theft by ensuring that FCMs, IBs, CPOs, and other
CFTC-regulated entities create programs to detect and respond appropriately to red flags. 138 The
proposed rules, which were substantially similar to rules adopted in 2007 by the FTC and other
136
137
138

7 U.S.C. 19(a).
Id.
77 FR 13450 (Mar. 6, 2012).

42

federal financial regulatory agencies, would require CFTC-regulated entities to adopt written
identity theft programs that include reasonable policies and procedures to: (1) identify relevant
red flags; (2) detect the occurrence of red flags; (3) respond appropriately to the detected red
flags; and (4) periodically update their programs. The proposed rules also included guidelines
and examples of red flags to help regulated entities administer their programs.
In its proposed consideration of costs and benefits pursuant to CEA section 15(a), the
CFTC stated that section 162.30 should not result in any significant new costs or benefits
because it generally reflects a statutory transfer of enforcement authority from the FTC to the
CFTC. The CFTC requested comment on all aspects of its proposed consideration of costs and
benefits.
Comments. The CFTC received two comments on its consideration of the costs and
benefits of the joint proposal. These two commenters were divided on the reasonableness of the
Commissions’ estimated costs of compliance. In a letter focused on the SEC’s proposed
regulations (which are, of course, substantially similar to the CFTC’s proposed regulations), one
commenter stated that because Regulation S-ID “is substantially similar to” the existing FTC
rules and guidelines, broker-dealers should not bear “any new costs in coming into compliance
with proposed Regulation S-ID.” 139 This commenter further stated that “broker-dealers should
already have in place a program that complies with the FTC rule. While firms will need to
update some of their procedures to reflect the SEC’s new responsibility for the oversight of the
application of this rule, many of the changes would be cosmetic and grammatical in nature.” 140
In marked contrast, another comment letter, submitted on behalf of the Financial Services

139
140

See NSCP Comment Letter.
Id.

43

Roundtable (“FSR”) and the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”),
stated that the “consensus of our members is that the estimated compliance costs for the
proposed Rules are extremely low and unrealistic.” 141
The FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter also stated that the FSR and SIFMA members
estimated that the initial compliance burden to implement the rules would average 2,000 hours
for each line of business conducted by a “large, complex financial institution,” noting that the
estimate would vary based on the number of “covered accounts” for each line of business. In
addition, this comment letter also stated that continuing compliance monitoring for such an
institution would average 400 hours annually. They did not provide any data or information
from which the CFTC could replicate its estimates.
The FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter also stated that “financial institutions with an existing
Red Flags program would experience an incremental burden due to reassessing the scope of the
‘covered accounts’ and reevaluating whether a business activity would be defined as a ‘financial
institution’ or as a ‘creditor’ for purposes of the Agencies’ Rules.” 142 The letter did not attribute
a time estimate to this “incremental burden.”
Finally, the FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter contended that the Commissions’ “estimated
compliance costs further fail to consider the cost to third-party service providers, many of which
may be required to implement an identity theft program even though they are not financial
institutions or creditors.” 143
CFTC Response to Comments Regarding Costs and Benefits. In considering the costs

141
142
143

See FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter.
Id.
Id.

44

and benefits of the final rules, the CFTC assumes that each CFTC-regulated entity covered by
the final rules is already in existence and acting in compliance with the law, including the FTC’s
identity theft rules. 144 Under this assumption, the CFTC believes, as one of the commenters
did, 145 that entities will incur few if any new costs in complying with the CFTC’s regulations
because they are largely unchanged in terms of scope and substance from the FTC’s rules. The
CFTC believes that the costs of compliance for such entities may actually decrease as a result of
the additional guidance provided in this rulemaking. Without such guidance from the CFTC,
entities might incur the costs of seeking advice from third parties. With respect to the comment
that CFTC-regulated entities will experience an “incremental burden” in reassessing covered
accounts and determining whether their activities fall within the scope of the rules, 146 the CFTC
notes that the FTC’s identity theft rules also include the requirement to periodically reassess
covered accounts, and thus costs associated with this requirement are not new costs.
With regard to the estimate in the FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter that a “large, complex
financial institution” will incur 2,000 hours of “initial compliance burden,” 147 the CFTC is
unaware of any such institution that is not already acting in compliance with the FCRA and the
FTC’s rules.

But even if such a large, complex financial institution exists and is not already in

compliance with FCRA and the FTC’s rules, the “initial burden” that such an entity would incur
is largely attributable to the FCRA, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. As discussed above,
144

As discussed above, the final rules implement a shift in oversight of identity theft red flags rules
for CFTC-regulated entities from the FTC to the CFTC. The rules do not contain new
requirements, nor do they substantially expand the scope of the FTC’s rules. Most entities should
already be in compliance with the FTC’s existing rules, which the FTC began enforcing on
January 1, 2011.

145

See NSCP Comment Letter.

146

See supra note 142 and accompanying text.

147

See FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter.

45

Congress mandated that the CFTC promulgate rules to bring its regulated entities into
compliance with FCRA, and the CFTC has elected to do so in a manner that imposes minimal
incremental cost on CFTC-regulated entities. In response to the comments concerning the costs
to “third-party service providers,” the CFTC stresses these costs have already been taken into
account, as CFTC-regulated entities that have outsourced identity theft detection, prevention, and
mitigation operations to affiliates or third-party service providers have effectively shifted a
burden that the CFTC-regulated entities otherwise would have carried themselves.
One commenter also stated that since it maintains no covered accounts and has no plans
to, it should be specifically excluded from the scope of the rules to avoid any potential that it
would be subject to the requirements of the final rules. According to this commenter, to include
it within the scope of the final rules would require it needlessly to incur compliance costs
associated with periodically reassessing whether they maintain any covered accounts and
documenting the same. 148
The majority of the per-entity costs associated with the final rules would be incurred by
those financial institutions and creditors that maintain covered accounts. 149 Additionally, even if
financial institutions and creditors do not currently maintain, or intend to maintain, covered
accounts, such entities must nevertheless periodically assess whether they maintain covered
accounts, as certain accounts may be deemed to be “covered accounts” if reasonably foreseeable
identity theft risks are associated with these accounts. 150 Moreover, the CFTC reiterates that the
final rules do not contain any new requirements or significantly expand the scope of the

148

See OCC Comment Letter.

149

See infra notes 151 and 152.

150

See supra notes 95–100 and accompanying text.

46

pre-existing FTC rules. Therefore, no financial institutions or creditors, regardless of whether
they maintain covered accounts, should incur any additional costs other than the costs already
being incurred under the previous regulatory framework.
Consideration of Costs and Benefits in Light of CEA Section 15(a). As discussed above,
the Dodd-Frank Act shifted enforcement authority over CFTC-regulated entities that are subject
to section 615(e) of the FCRA from the FTC to the CFTC. Section 615(e) of the FCRA, as
amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, requires that the CFTC, jointly with the Agencies and the SEC,
adopt identity theft red flags rules. To carry out this requirement, the CFTC is adopting section
162.30, which is substantially similar to the identity theft red flags rules adopted by the Agencies
in 2007.
Section 162.30 will shift oversight of identity theft rules of CFTC-regulated entities from
the FTC to the CFTC. These entities should already be in compliance with the FTC’s existing
identity theft red flags rules, which the FTC began enforcing on January 1, 2011. Because
section 162.30 is substantially similar to those existing rules, these entities should not bear any
significant costs in coming into compliance with section 162.30. The new regulation does not
contain new requirements, nor does it expand the scope of the rules significantly. The new
regulation does contain examples and minor language changes designed to help guide entities
within the CFTC’s enforcement authority in complying with the rules, which the CFTC expects
will mitigate costs of compliance. Moreover, section 162.30 would not impose any significant
new costs on new entities since any newly-formed entities would already be covered under the
FTC’s existing rules.
In the analysis for the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”) below, the staff
identified certain initial and ongoing hour burdens and associated time costs related to

47

compliance with section 162.30. However, these costs are not new costs, but are current costs
associated with compliance with the Agencies’ existing rules. CFTC-regulated entities will incur
these hours and costs regardless of whether the CFTC adopts section 162.30. These hours and
costs would be transferred from the Agencies’ PRA allotment to the CFTC. No new costs
should result from the adoption of section 162.30.
These existing costs related to section 162.30 would include, for newly-formed
CFTC-regulated entities, the one-time cost for financial institutions and creditors to conduct
initial assessments of covered accounts, create a Program, obtain board approval of the Program,
and train staff. 151 The existing costs would also include the ongoing cost to periodically review
and update the Program, report periodically on the Program, and conduct periodic assessments of

151

CFTC staff estimates that the one-time burden of compliance would include 2 hours to conduct
initial assessments of covered accounts, 25 hours to develop and obtain board approval of a
Program, and 4 hours to train staff. CFTC staff estimates that, of the 31 hours incurred, 12 hours
would be spent by internal counsel at an hourly rate of $354, 17 hours would be spent by
administrative assistants at an hourly rate of $66, and 2 hours would be spent by the board of
directors as a whole, at an hourly rate of $4000, for a total cost of $13,370 per entity for entities
that need to come into compliance with proposed subpart C to Part 162. This estimate is based on
the following calculations: $354 x 12 hours = $4,248; $66 x 17 = $1,122; $4,000 x 2 = $8,000;
$4,248 + $1,122 + $8,000 = $13,370.
As discussed in the PRA analysis, CFTC staff estimates that there are 702 CFTC-regulated
entities that newly form each year and that would fall within the definitions of “financial
institution” or “creditor.” Of these 702 entities, 54 entities would maintain covered accounts. See
infra note 168 and text following note 168. CFTC staff estimates that 2 hours of internal
counsel’s time would be spent conducting an initial assessment to determine whether they have
covered accounts and whether they are subject to the proposed rule (or 702 entities). The cost
associated with this determination is $497,016 based on the following calculation: $354 x 2 =
$708; $708 x 702 = $497,016. CFTC staff estimates that 54 entities would bear the remaining
specified costs for a total cost of $683,748 (54 x $12,662 = $683,748). See SIFMA’s Office
Salaries in the Securities Industry 2011.
Staff also estimates that in response to Dodd-Frank, there will be approximately 125 newly
registered SDs and MSPs. Staff believes that each of these SDs and MSPs will be a financial
institution or creditor with covered accounts. The additional cost of these SDs and MSPs is
$1,671,250 (125 x $13,370 = $1,671,250).

48

covered accounts. 152
The benefits related to adoption of section 162.30, which already exist in connection with
the Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules, would include a reduction in the risk of identity theft
for investors (consumers) and cardholders, and a reduction in the risk of losses due to fraud for
financial institutions and creditors. It is not practicable for the CFTC to estimate with precision
the dollar value associated with the benefits that will inure to the public from the adoption of
section 162.30, as the quantity or value of identity theft deterred or prevented is not knowable.
The CFTC, however, recognizes that the cost of any given instance of identity theft may be
substantial to the individual involved. Joint adoption of identity theft red flags rules in a form
that is substantially similar to the Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules might also benefit
financial institutions and creditors because entities regulated by multiple federal agencies could
comply with a single set of standards, which would reduce potential compliance costs. As is true
of the Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules, the CFTC has designed section 162.30 to provide
financial institutions and creditors significant flexibility in developing and maintaining a
Program that is tailored to the size and complexity of their business and the nature of their
152

CFTC staff estimates that the ongoing burden of compliance would include 2 hours to conduct
periodic assessments of covered accounts, 2 hours to periodically review and update the Program,
and 4 hours to prepare and present an annual report to the board, for a total of 8 hours. CFTC
staff estimates that, of the 8 hours incurred, 7 hours would be spent by internal counsel at an
hourly rate of $354 and 1 hour would be spent by the board of directors as a whole, at an hourly
rate of $4,000, for a total hourly cost of $6,500. This estimate is based on the following
calculations rounded to two significant digits: $354 x 7 hours = $2,478; $4,000 x 1 hour =
$4,000; $2,478 + $4,000 = $6,478 ≈ $6,500.
As discussed in the PRA analysis, CFTC staff estimates that 2,946 existing CFTC-regulated
entities would be financial institutions or creditors, of which 260 maintain covered accounts.
CFTC staff estimates that 2 hours of internal counsel’s time would be spent conducting periodic
assessments of covered accounts and that all financial institutions or creditors subject to the
proposed rule (or 2,946 entities) would bear this cost for a total cost of $2,100,000 based on the
following calculations rounded to two significant digits: $354 x 2 = $708; $708 x 2,946 =
$2,085,768 ≈ $2,100,000. CFTC staff estimates that 260 entities would bear the remaining
specified ongoing costs for a total cost of $1,500,000 (260 x $5,770 = $1,500,200 ≈ $1,500,000).

49

operations, as well as in satisfying the address verification procedures.
Accordingly, as previously discussed, section 162.30 should not result in any significant
new costs or benefits, because it generally reflects a statutory transfer of enforcement authority
from the FTC to the CFTC, does not include any significant new requirements, and does not
include new entities that were not previously covered by the Agencies’ rules.
Section 15(a) Analysis. As stated above, the CFTC is required to consider costs and
benefits of proposed CFTC action in light of (1) protection of market participants and the public;
(2) efficiency, competitiveness, and financial integrity of futures markets; (3) price discovery; (4)
sound risk management practices; and (5) other public interest considerations. These rules
protect market participants and the public by detecting, preventing, and mitigating identity theft,
an illegal act that may be costly to them in both time and money. 153 Because, however, these
rules create no new requirements — rather, as explained above, the CFTC is adopting rules that
reflect requirements already in place — the impact of the rules on the protection of market
participants and the public will remain the same. The Commission is not aware of any effect of
these rules on the efficiency, competitiveness, and financial integrity of futures markets, price
discovery, sound risk management practices, or other public interest considerations. Customers
of CFTC registrants will continue to benefit from these rules in the same way they have
benefited from the rules as they were administered by the Agencies.

153

According to the Javelin 2011 Identity Fraud Survey Report, consumer costs (the average out‐of‐
pocket dollar amount victims pay) increased in 2010. See Javelin 2011 Identity Fraud Survey
Report (2011). The report attributed this increase to new account fraud, which showed longer
periods of misuse and detection and therefore more dollar losses associated with it than any other
type of fraud. Notwithstanding the increase in cost, the report stated that the number of identity
theft victims has decreased in recent years. Id.

50

Cost-Benefit Considerations of Card Issuer Rules
With respect to specific types of identity theft, section 615(e) of the FCRA identified the
scenario involving credit and debit card issuers as being a possible indicator of identity theft.
Accordingly, the card issuer rules in section 162.32 set out the duties of card issuers regarding
changes of address. The card issuer rules will apply only to a person that issues a debit or credit
card and that is subject to the CFTC’s enforcement authority. The card issuer rules require a
card issuer to comply with certain address validation procedures in the event that such issuer
receives a notification of a change of address for an existing account from a cardholder, and
within a short period of time (during at least the first 30 days after such notification is received)
receives a request for an additional or replacement card for the same account. The card issuer
may not issue the additional or replacement card unless it complies with those procedures. The
procedures include: (1) notifying the cardholder of the request in writing or electronically either
at the cardholder’s former address, or by any other means of communication that the card issuer
and the cardholder have previously agreed to use; or (2) assessing the validity of the change of
address in accordance with established policies and procedures.
Section 162.32 will shift oversight of card issuer rules of CFTC-regulated entities from
the FTC to the CFTC. These entities should already be in compliance with the FTC’s existing
card issuer rules, which the FTC began enforcing on January 1, 2011. Because section 162.32 is
substantially similar to those existing card issuer rules, these entities should not bear any new
costs in coming into compliance. The new regulation does not contain new requirements, nor
does it expand the scope of the rules to include new entities that were not already previously
covered by the Agencies’ card issuer rules.
The existing costs related to section 162.32 would include the cost for card issuers to

51

establish policies and procedures that assess the validity of a change of address notification
submitted shortly before a request for an additional card and, before issuing an additional or
replacement card, either notify the cardholder at the previous address or through another
previously agreed-upon form of communication, or alternatively assess the validity of the
address change through existing policies and procedures. As discussed in the PRA analysis,
CFTC staff does not expect that any CFTC-regulated entities would be subject to the
requirements of section 162.32.
The benefits related to adoption of section 162.32, which already exist in connection with
the Agencies’ card issuer rules, would include a reduction in the risk of identity theft for
cardholders, and a reduction in the risk of losses due to fraud for card issuers. However, it is not
practicable for the CFTC to estimate with precision the dollar value associated with the benefits
that will inure to the public from these card issuer rules. As is true of the Agencies’ card issuer
rules, the CFTC has designed section 162.32 to provide card issuers significant flexibility in
developing and maintaining a Program that is tailored to the size and complexity of their
business and the nature of their operations.
Accordingly, as previously discussed, the card issuer rules should not result in any
significant new costs or benefits, because they generally reflect a statutory transfer of
enforcement authority from the FTC to the CFTC, do not include any significant new
requirements, and do not include new entities that were not previously covered by the Agencies’
rules.
Section 15(a) Analysis. As stated above, the CFTC is required to consider costs and
benefits of proposed CFTC action in light of (1) protection of market participants and the public;
(2) efficiency, competitiveness, and financial integrity of futures markets; (3) price discovery; (4)

52

sound risk management practices; and (5) other public interest considerations. These rules
protect market participants and the public by preventing identity theft, an illegal act that may be
costly to them in both time and money. 154 Because, however, these rules create no new
requirements—rather, as explained above, the CFTC is adopting rules that reflect requirements
already in place—their cost and benefits have no incremental impact on the five section 15(a)
factors. Customers of CFTC registrants will continue to benefit from these rules in the same way
they have benefited from the rules as they were administered by the Agencies.
SEC:
The SEC is sensitive to the costs and benefits imposed by its rules. As discussed above,
the Dodd-Frank Act shifted enforcement authority over SEC-regulated entities that are subject to
section 615(e) of the FCRA from the Agencies to the SEC. Section 615(e) of the FCRA, as
amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, requires that the SEC, jointly with the Agencies and the CFTC,
adopt identity theft red flags rules and guidelines. To carry out this requirement, the SEC is
adopting Regulation S-ID, which is substantially similar to the identity theft red flags rules and
guidelines adopted by the Agencies in 2007, and whose scope covers the same categories of
SEC-regulated entities that were covered under the Agencies’ red flags rules.
Regulation S-ID requires a financial institution or creditor that is subject to the SEC’s
enforcement authority and that offers or maintains covered accounts to develop, implement, and
administer a written identity theft prevention Program. A financial institution or creditor must
design its Program to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening
of a covered account or any existing covered account. A financial institution or creditor also
must appropriately tailor its Program to its size and complexity, and to the nature and scope of its
154

See id.

53

activities. In addition, a financial institution or creditor must take certain steps to comply with
the requirements of the identity theft red flags rules, including training staff, providing annual
reports to the board of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a designated senior
management employee, and, if applicable, oversight of service providers.
Section 615(e)(1)(C) of the FCRA singles out change of address notifications sent to
credit and debit card issuers as a possible indicator of identity theft, and requires the SEC to
prescribe regulations concerning such notifications. Accordingly, the card issuer rules in this
release set out the duties of card issuers regarding changes of address. The card issuer rules
apply only to SEC-regulated entities that issue credit or debit cards. 155 The card issuer rules
require a card issuer to comply with certain address validation procedures in the event that such
issuer receives a notification of a change of address for an existing account, and within a short
period of time (during at least the first 30 days after it receives such notification) receives a
request for an additional or replacement card for the same account. The card issuer may not
issue the additional or replacement card unless it complies with those procedures. The
procedures include: (1) notifying the cardholder of the request either at the cardholder’s former
address, or by any other means of communication that the card issuer and the cardholder have
previously agreed to use; or (2) assessing the validity of the change of address in accordance
with established policies and procedures.
The baseline we use to analyze the economic effects of Regulation S-ID is the identity
theft red flags regulatory scheme administered by the Agencies. Regulation S-ID, as discussed
above, implements the transfer of oversight of identity theft red flags rules for SEC-regulated
entities from the Agencies to the SEC. Entities that qualify as a financial institution or creditor
155

See § 248.202(a) (defining scope of the SEC’s rules).

54

and offer or maintain covered accounts should already have existing identity theft red flags
Programs. Regulation S-ID does not contain new requirements, nor does it expand the scope of
the Agencies’ rules to include new entities that the Agencies’ rules did not previously cover.
Regulation S-ID does contain examples and minor language changes designed to help guide
entities within the SEC’s enforcement authority in complying with the rules. Because
Regulation S-ID is substantially similar to the Agencies’ rules, the entities within its scope
should not bear new costs in coming into compliance with Regulation S-ID. 156
Costs
The costs of complying with section 248.201 of Regulation S-ID include both ongoing
costs and initial, one-time costs. 157 These are the same costs that were associated with the
requirements of the Agencies’ red flags rules, and these costs will continue to apply after the
adoption of the SEC’s identity theft red flags rules (section 248.201 of Regulation S-ID). The
ongoing costs include the costs to periodically review and update the Program, report on the

156

See, e.g., NSCP Comment Letter (“Because proposed Regulation S-ID is substantially similar to
[the Agencies’] existing rules and guidelines, broker-dealer firms should not bear any new costs
in coming into compliance with proposed Regulation S-ID.”). As previously indicated, the SEC
staff understands that a number of investment advisers may not currently have identity theft red
flags Programs. See supra note 55 and infra notes 186 and 190. The new guidance in this release
may lead some of these entities to determine that they should comply with Regulation S-ID.
Although the costs and benefits of Regulation S-ID discussed below would be new to these
entities, the costs would result not from Regulation S-ID but instead from the entities’ recognition
that these rules and the previously-existing rules apply to them. In that regard, the initial, onetime costs of Regulation S-ID could be up to $756 for each investment adviser that qualifies as a
financial institution or creditor, and additional one-time costs of $13,885 for each such
investment adviser that maintains covered accounts. See infra notes 158 and 159. Not all
investment advisers will bear the full extent of these costs, however, as some may already have in
place certain identity theft protections. And, the guidance in this release could have the benefit of
further reducing identity theft. See infra discussion of benefits in Part III.A of this release.

157

See infra note 182 and accompanying text.

55

Program, and conduct assessments of covered accounts. 158 All entities that qualify as financial
institutions or creditors and that maintain covered accounts will bear these costs. Existing
entities subject to Regulation S-ID should already bear, and will continue to be subject to, the
ongoing costs.
Initial, one-time costs relate to the initial assessments of covered accounts, creation of a
Program, board approval of the Program, and the training of staff. 159 New entities will bear

158

Unless otherwise stated, all cost estimates for personnel time are derived from SIFMA’s
Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2011, modified to account for an
1800-hour work-year and multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, entity size, employee
benefits, and overhead. The estimates in this release, both for salary rates and numbers of entities
affected, have been updated from those in the Proposing Release to reflect recent SIFMA
management and professional salary data.
SEC staff estimates that the ongoing burden of compliance will include 2 hours to conduct
periodic assessments of covered accounts, 2 hours to periodically review and update the Program,
and 4 hours to prepare and present an annual report to the board, for a total of 8 hours. SEC staff
estimates that, of the 8 hours incurred, 7 hours will be spent by internal counsel at an hourly rate
of $378 and 1 hour will be spent by the board of directors as a whole, at an hourly rate of $4500,
for a total hourly cost of $7146 per entity. This estimate is based on the following calculations:
$378 x 7 hours = $2646; $4500 x 1 hour = $4500; $2646 + $4500 = $7146. The cost estimate for
the board of directors is derived from estimates made by SEC staff regarding typical board size
and compensation that is based on information received from fund representatives and publicly
available sources.
As discussed in the PRA analysis, SEC staff estimates that 10,339 existing SEC-regulated entities
will be financial institutions or creditors under Regulation S-ID, and approximately 90%, or 9305,
of these entities will maintain covered accounts. See infra notes 190 and 191 and accompanying
text. SEC staff estimates that 2 hours of internal counsel’s time will be spent conducting periodic
assessments of covered accounts and that all financial institutions or creditors subject to the rule
(or 10,339 entities) will bear this cost for a total cost of $7,816,284 based on the following
calculations: $378 x 2 = $756; $756 x 10,339 = $7,816,284. SEC staff estimates that 9305
entities will bear the remaining specified ongoing costs for a total cost of $59,458,950 (9305 x
(($378 x 5) + ($4500 x 1)) = $59,458,950).

159

SEC staff estimates that the incremental one-time burden of compliance includes 2 hours to
conduct initial assessments of covered accounts, 25 hours to develop and obtain board approval
of a Program, and 4 hours to train staff. SEC staff estimates that, of the 31 hours incurred, 12
hours will be spent by internal counsel at an hourly rate of $378, 17 hours will be spent by
administrative assistants at an hourly rate of $65, and 2 hours will be spent by the board of
directors as a whole, at an hourly rate of $4500, for a total cost of $14,641 per new entity. This
estimate is based on the following calculations: $378 x 12 hours = $4536; $65 x 17 = $1105;
$4500 x 2 = $9000; $4536 + $1105 + $9000 = $14,641. The cost estimate for administrative
assistants is derived from SIFMA’s Office Salaries in the Securities Industry 2011, modified to

56

these costs.
As discussed above, the final rules require financial institutions and creditors to tailor
their Programs to the size and complexity of the entity and to the nature and scope of the entity’s
activities. Ongoing and one-time costs will therefore depend on the size and complexity of the
SEC-regulated entity. Entities may already have other policies and procedures in place that are
designed to reduce the risks of identity theft for their customers. The presence of other related
policies and procedures could reduce the ongoing and one-time costs of compliance.
Two commenters agreed with the SEC that the substantial similarity of Regulation S-ID
to the Agencies’ rules should minimize any compliance costs for entities that have previously
complied with the Agencies’ rules, 160 and another commenter stated that the benefits of reduced
risk of identity theft would outweigh the costs associated with the rules. 161 Another commenter
raised concerns with the cost estimates in the Proposing Release, and argued that actual costs of
account for an 1800-hour work-year and multiplied by 2.93 to account for bonuses, entity size,
employee benefits, and overhead.
As discussed in the PRA analysis, SEC staff estimates that there are 1271 SEC-regulated entities
that newly form each year and that could be financial institutions or creditors, of which 668 are
likely to qualify as financial institutions or creditors. See infra note 186. Of these 668 entities
that are likely to qualify as financial institutions or creditors, SEC staff estimates that
approximately 90%, or 601, of these entities will maintain covered accounts. See infra note 188
and accompanying text. SEC staff estimates that 2 hours of internal counsel’s time will be spent
conducting an initial assessment of covered accounts and that all newly-formed financial
institutions or creditors subject to Regulation S-ID (or 668 entities) will bear this cost for a total
cost of $505,008 based on the following calculation: $378 x 2 = $756; $756 x 668 = $505,008.
SEC staff estimates that the 601 entities that will maintain covered accounts will bear the
remaining specified costs for a total cost of $8,344,885 (601 x (($378 x 10) + ($65 x 17) + ($4500
x 2)) = $8,344,885).
160

See NSCP Comment Letter (“Because proposed Regulation S-ID is substantially similar to [the
Agencies’] existing rules and guidelines, broker-dealer firms should not bear any new costs in
coming into compliance with proposed Regulation S-ID.”); ICI Comment Letter (“We commend
the Commission for proposing requirements that are consistent with those that have applied to
certain SEC registrants since 2008 pursuant to rules of the [FTC] under [the FACT Act]. This
consistency will facilitate registrants’ transition from compliance with the FTC’s rule to the
Commission’s rule with little or no disruption or added expense.”)

161

See Eric Speicher Comment Letter.

57

compliance could be much greater than estimated. 162 This commenter provided hour burden
estimates for large, complex financial institutions that were significantly higher than the
estimates made for those entities in the Proposing Release. Additionally, the commenter stated
that the Commissions’ estimated compliance costs did not consider the costs to third-party
service providers that may be required to implement an identity theft red flags Program, even
though they are not financial institutions or creditors. The commenter also noted, however, that
burdens placed upon entities currently complying with the Agencies’ rules would be the same
burdens that each of these entities already incurs in regularly assessing whether it maintains
covered accounts and evaluating whether it falls within the rules’ scope.
We note that the commenter who suggested that significantly higher hour burdens would
be associated with the rules focused on large, complex financial institutions. Regulation S-ID
requires each financial institution and creditor to tailor its Program to its size and complexity,
and to the nature and scope of its activities. Our estimates take into account the hour burdens for
small financial institutions and creditors, which we understand, based on discussions with
industry representatives, to be significantly less than the estimates provided by this commenter.
We also note that costs to service providers have already been taken into account, as
SEC-regulated entities that have outsourced identity theft detection, prevention, and mitigation
operations to service providers have effectively shifted a burden that the SEC-regulated entities
otherwise would have carried themselves. 163 As mentioned above, the costs of Regulation S-ID
162

See FSR/SIFMA Comment Letter. FSR/SIFMA estimated that “the initial compliance burden to
implement the [proposed rules] would average 2,000 hours for each line of business conducted by
a large, complex financial institution …” and that “the continuing compliance monitoring for a
large, complex financial institution … would average 400 hours annually.” FSR/SIFMA also
noted that “financial institutions with an existing Red Flags program would experience an
incremental burden” in connection with the SEC’s rules.

163

See infra Section III.C. (describing the SEC’s PRA collection of information requirements).

58

are not new, and existing entities should already have identity theft red flags Programs and bear
the ongoing costs associated with Regulation S-ID.
The existing costs related to the card issuer rules (section 248.202 of Regulation S-ID)
include the cost for card issuers to establish policies and procedures that assess the validity of a
change of address notification submitted shortly before a request for an additional or replacement
card and, before issuing an additional or replacement card, either notify the cardholder at the
previous address or through another previously agreed-upon form of communication, or
alternatively assess the validity of the address change through existing policies and procedures.
As discussed in the PRA analysis, SEC staff does not expect that any SEC-regulated entities will
be subject to the card issuer rules.
In the PRA analysis below, the staff identifies certain ongoing and initial hour burdens
and associated time costs related to compliance with Regulation S ID. These hour burdens and
costs are consistent with those associated with the requirements of the Agencies’ existing rules.
Benefits
The benefits related to adoption of Regulation S-ID, which already exist in connection
with the Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules, include a reduction in the risk of identity theft
for investors (consumers) and cardholders, and a reduction in the risk of losses due to fraud for
financial institutions and creditors. The SEC is the federal agency best positioned to oversee the
financial institutions and creditors subject to its enforcement authority because of its experience
in overseeing these entities. Adoption of Regulation S-ID therefore may have the added benefit
of increasing entities’ adherence to their identity theft red flags Programs, thus further reducing
the risk of identity theft for investors. As is true of the Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules,
the SEC has designed Regulation S-ID to provide financial institutions, creditors, and card

59

issuers significant flexibility in developing and maintaining a Program that is tailored to the size
and complexity of their business and the nature of their operations, as well as in satisfying the
address verification procedures. Many of the benefits and costs discussed are difficult to
quantify, in particular when discussing the potential reduction in the risk of identity theft. The
SEC staff cannot quantify the benefits of the potential reduction in the risk of identity theft
because of the uncertainty of its effect on customer behavior. Therefore, we discuss much of the
benefits qualitatively but, where possible, the SEC staff attempted to quantify the costs.
Alternatives
In analyzing the costs and benefits that could result from the implementation of
Regulation S-ID, the SEC also considered the costs and benefits of any plausible alternatives to
the final rules as set forth in this release. As discussed above, section 615(e) of the FCRA, as
amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, requires that the SEC, jointly with the Agencies and the CFTC,
adopt identity theft red flags rules and guidelines that are substantially similar to those adopted
by the Agencies. The rules the SEC promulgates should achieve a similar outcome with respect
to the reduction in the risk of identity theft as the rules of other Agencies. Alternatives to the
identity theft red flags rules that would achieve a similar outcome may impose additional costs,
especially for those entities that would need to alter existing Programs to conform to a new set of
rules. The SEC does provide additional guidance in this release to better enable entities to
determine whether they fall within the rules’ scope. Although the SEC could have provided
different guidance with this release, the SEC believes that the release provides sufficient
guidance to enable entities to determine whether they need to adopt identity theft red flags
Programs. Lastly, for the reasons discussed above, the SEC is not exempting certain entities
from certain requirements of the identity theft red flags rules. The SEC believes that if an entity

60

determines that it is a financial institution or a creditor that offers or maintains covered accounts,
then the risk of identity theft that the rules are designed to address is present. Under such
circumstances, we believe that the benefits of the rules justify the costs to the financial institution
or creditor subject to the rules and, therefore, no exemptions are appropriate.
B.

Analysis of Effects on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital Formation

Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act and section 2(c) of the Investment Company Act require
the SEC, whenever it engages in rulemaking and must consider or determine if an action is
necessary, appropriate, or consistent with the public interest, to consider, in addition to the
protection of investors, whether the action would promote efficiency, competition, and capital
formation. In addition, section 23(a)(2) of the Exchange Act requires the SEC, when making
rules under the Exchange Act, to consider the impact the rules may have upon competition.
Section 23(a)(2) of the Exchange Act prohibits the SEC from adopting any rule that would
impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the
purposes of the Exchange Act. 164
As discussed in the cost-benefit analysis above, Regulation S-ID will carry out the
requirement in the Dodd-Frank Act that the SEC adopt rules governing identity theft protections,
pursuant to section 615(e) of the FCRA with regard to entities that are subject to the SEC’s
enforcement authority. This requirement was designed to transfer regulatory oversight of
identity theft red flags rules for SEC-regulated entities from the Agencies to the SEC.
Regulation S-ID is substantially similar to the identity theft red flags rules adopted by the

164

See infra Section IV (setting forth statutory authority under, among other things, the Exchange
Act and Investment Company Act for rulemakings).

61

Agencies in 2007, and does not contain new requirements. The entities covered by Regulation
S-ID should already be in compliance with existing identity theft red flags rules.
For the reasons discussed above, Regulation S-ID should have a negligible effect on
efficiency, competition, and capital formation because it does not include new requirements and
does not include new entities that were not previously covered by the Agencies’ rules. 165 The
SEC thereby finds that, pursuant to Exchange Act section 23(a)(2), the adoption of Regulation
S-ID would not result in any burden on competition, efficiency, or capital formation that is not
necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act.
C.

Paperwork Reduction Act

CFTC:
Provisions of sections 162.30 and 162.32 contain collection of information requirements
within the meaning of the PRA. The CFTC submitted the proposal to the Office of Management
and Budget (“OMB”) for review and public comment, in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and
5 CFR 1320.11. The title for this collection of information is “Part 162 Subpart C—Identity
Theft.” Responses to this new collection of information are mandatory.
165

See infra note 182 (discussing the entities that the SEC staff expects, based on discussions with
industry representatives and a review of applicable law, will fall within the scope of Regulation
S-ID). The SEC staff understands, however, that a number of investment advisers may not
currently have identity theft red flags Programs. See supra note 55. The guidance in this release
regarding situations in which certain SEC-regulated entities could qualify as financial institutions
or creditors should not produce any significant effects. These entities may experience a
negligible increase to business efficiency due to the industry-specific guidance in this release
regarding the types of activities that could cause an entity to fall within the scope of Regulation
S-ID. The guidance should also have a negligible effect on capital formation. Prior to Regulation
S-ID, investors preferring to base their capital allocations on the existence of identity theft red
flags Programs could have allocated capital with entities adhering to the Agencies’ rules. The
guidance therefore should have a negligible effect on the amount of capital allocated for
investment purposes. In addition, all entities that conclude based on this guidance that they are
subject to the final rules will be subject to the same requirements, and experience the same costs
and benefits, as all other entities currently adhering to the Agencies’ existing rules. The guidance
therefore should have a negligible effect on competition.

62

1.

Information Provided by Reporting Entities/Persons

Under part 162, subpart C, CFTC regulated entities – which presently would include
approximately 260 CFTC registrants 166 plus 125 new CFTC registrants pursuant to Title VII of
the Dodd-Frank Act 167 – are required to design, develop and implement reasonable policies and
procedures to identify relevant red flags, and potentially to notify cardholders of identity theft
risks. In addition, CFTC-regulated entities are required to: (i) collect information and keep
records for the purpose of ensuring that their Programs met requirements to detect, prevent, and
mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing
covered account; (ii) develop and implement reasonable policies and procedures to identify,
detect and respond to relevant red flags, as well as periodic reports related to the Program; and

166

See the NFA’s Internet web site at http://www.nfa.futures.org/NFA-registration/NFAmembership-and-dues.HTML for the most up-to-date number of CFTC regulated entities. For the
purposes of the PRA calculation, CFTC staff used the number of registered FCMs, CTAs, CPOs
IBs and RFEDs on the NFA’s Internet web site as of November 20, 2012. The NFA’s site states
that there are 3,485 CFTC registrants as of October 31, 2012. (The total number of registrants
also includes 7 exchanges which are not subject to this rule and not included in the calculation.)
Of the 3,485 registrants, there are 104 FCMs, 1,284 IBs, 1,041 CTAs, 1,035 CPOs, and 14
RFEDs. CFTC staff has observed that approximately 50 percent of all CPOs (518) are dually
registered as CTAs. Moreover, CFTC staff also has observed that all entities registering as
RFEDs (14) also register as FCMs. Based on these observations, the CFTC has determined that
the total number of entities is 2,946 (this total excludes the 7 exchanges that are not subject to this
rule, the 518 CPOs that are also registered as CTAs, and the 14 RFEDs that are also registered as
FCMs).
Of the total 2,946 entities, all of the FCMs (104) are likely to qualify as financial institutions or
creditors carrying covered accounts, approximately 10 percent of CTAs (104) and CPOs (52) are
likely to qualify as financial institutions or creditors carrying covered accounts and none of the
IBs are likely to qualify as a financial institution or creditor carrying covered accounts, for a total
of 260 financial institutions or creditors that would bear the initial one-time burden of compliance
with the CFTC’s rules.

167

CFTC staff estimates that 125 SDs and MSPs will register with the CFTC upon the issuance of
final rules under the Dodd-Frank Act further defining the terms “swap dealers” and “major swap
participants” and setting forth a registration regime for these entities. The CFTC estimates the
number of MSPs to be quite small, at six or fewer.

63

(iii) from time to time, notify cardholders of possible identity theft with respect to their covered
accounts, as well as assess the validity of those accounts.
These burden estimates assume that CFTC-regulated entities already comply with the
identity theft red flags rules jointly adopted by the FTC with the Agencies, as of January 1, 2011.
Consequently, these entities may already have in place many of the customary protections
addressing identity theft and changes of address required by these regulations.
Burden means the total time, effort, or financial resources expended by persons to
generate, maintain, retain, disclose or provide information to or for a federal agency. Because
compliance with identity theft red flags rules jointly adopted by the FTC with the Agencies may
have occurred, the CFTC estimates the time and cost burdens of complying with part 162 to be
both one-time and ongoing burdens. However, any initial or one-time burdens associated with
compliance with part 162 would apply only to newly-formed entities, and the ongoing burden to
all CFTC-regulated entities.
i.

Initial Burden

The CFTC estimates that the one-time burden of compliance with part 162 for its
regulated entities with covered accounts would be: (i) 25 hours to develop and obtain board
approval of a Program; (ii) 4 hours for staff training; and (iii) 2 hours to conduct an initial
assessment of covered accounts, totaling 31 hours. Of the 31 hours, the CFTC estimates that 15
hours would involve internal counsel, 14 hours expended by administrative assistants, and 2
hours by the board of directors in total, for those newly-regulated entities.

64

The CFTC estimates that approximately 702 FCMs, CTAs and CPOs 168 would need to
conduct an initial assessment of covered accounts. As noted above, the CFTC estimates that
approximately 125 newly registered SDs and MSPs would need to conduct an initial assessment
of covered accounts. The total number of newly registered CFTC registrants would be 827
entities. Each of these 827 entities would need to conduct an initial assessment of covered
accounts, for a total of 1,654 hours. 169 Of these 827 entities, CFTC staff estimates that
approximately 179 of these entities may maintain covered accounts. Accordingly, the CFTC
estimates the one-time burden for these 179 entities to be 5,191 hours, 170 for a total burden
among newly registered entities of 6,845 hours. 171
ii.

Ongoing Burden

The CFTC staff estimates that the ongoing compliance burden associated with part 162
would include: (i) 2 hours to periodically review and update the Program, review and preserve
contracts with service providers, and review and preserve any documentation received from such
168

Based on a review of new registrations typically filed with the CFTC each year, CFTC staff
estimates that approximately 7 FCMs, 225 IBs, 400 CTAs, and 140 CPOs are newly formed each
year, for a total of 772 entities. CFTC staff also has observed that approximately 50 percent of all
CPOs are duly registered as CTAs. With respect to RFEDs, CFTC staff has observed that all
entities registering as RFEDs also register as FCMs. Based on these observations, CFTC has
determined that the total number of newly-formed financial institutions and creditors is
702 (772 – 70 CPOs that are also registered as CTAs). Each of these 702 financial institutions or
creditors would bear the initial one-time burden of compliance with the proposed rules.
Of the total 702 newly-formed entities, staff estimates that all of the FCMs are likely to carry
covered accounts, 10 percent of CTAs and CPOs are likely to carry covered accounts, and none
of the IBs are likely to carry covered accounts, for a total of 54 newly-formed financial
institutions or creditors carrying covered accounts that would be required to conduct an initial
one-time burden of compliance with subpart C or Part 162.

169

This estimate is based on the following calculation: 827 entities x 2 hours = 1,654 hours.

170

This estimate is based on the following calculation: 179 entities x 29 hours = 5,191 hours.

171

This estimate is based on the following calculation: 1,654 hours for all newly registered CFTC
registrants + 5,191 hours for the one-time burden of newly registered entities with covered
accounts, for a total of 6,845 hours.

65

providers; (ii) 4 hours to prepare and present an annual report to the board; and (iii) 2 hours to
conduct periodic assessments to determine if the entity offers or maintains covered accounts, for
a total of 8 hours. The CFTC staff estimates that of the 8 hours expended, 7 hours would be
spent by internal counsel, and 1 hour would be spent by the board of directors as a whole.
The CFTC estimates that approximately 3,071 entities may maintain covered accounts,
and that they would be required to periodically review their accounts to determine if they comply
with these rules, for a total of 6,142 hours for these entities. 172 Of these 3,071 entities, the CFTC
estimates that approximately 385 maintain covered accounts, and thus would need to incur the
additional burdens related to complying with the rule, for a total of 2,310 hours. 173 The total
ongoing burden for all CFTC registrants is 8,452 hours. 174
SEC:
Provisions of sections 248.201 and 248.202 contain “collection of information”
requirements within the meaning of the PRA. In the Proposing Release, the SEC solicited
comment on the collection of information requirements. The SEC also submitted the proposed
collections of information to the OMB for review in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5
CFR 1320.11. The title for this collection of information is “Part 248, Subpart C–Regulation
S-ID.” In response to this submission, the OMB issued control number 3235-0692. 175
Responses to the new collection of information provisions are mandatory, and the information,
172

This estimate is based on the following calculation: 3,071 entities x 2 hours = 6,142 hours. (The
Proposing Release contained an arithmetic error in the calculation for the total ongoing burden for
all CFTC registrants. The total number of hours was erroneously calculated to total 76,498 hours
rather than 6,498. See 77 FR 13450, 13467.)

173

This estimate is based on the following calculation: 385 entities x 6 hours = 2,310 hours.

174

This estimate is based on the following calculation: 6,142 hours + 2,310 hours = 8,452 hours.

175

An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.

66

when provided to the SEC in connection with staff examinations or investigations, is kept
confidential to the extent permitted by law.
1.

Description of the Collections

Under Regulation S-ID, SEC-regulated entities are required to develop and implement
reasonable policies and procedures to identify, detect and respond to relevant red flags and, in
the case of entities that issue credit or debit cards, to assess the validity of, and communicate
with cardholders regarding, address changes. Section 248.201 of Regulation S-ID includes the
following “collections of information” by SEC-regulated entities that are financial institutions or
creditors if the entity maintains covered accounts: (1) creation and periodic updating of a
Program that is approved by the board of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a
designated senior management employee; (2) periodic staff reporting on compliance with the
identify theft red flags rules and guidelines, as required to be considered by section VI of the
guidelines; and (3) training of staff to implement the Program. Section 248.202 of Regulation
S-ID includes the following “collections of information” by SEC-regulated entities that are credit
or debit card issuers: (1) establishment of policies and procedures that assess the validity of a
change of address notification if a request for an additional or replacement card on the account
follows soon after the address change; and (2) notification of a cardholder, before issuance of an
additional or replacement card, at the previous address or through some other previously
agreed-upon form of communication, or alternatively, assessment of the validity of the address
change request through the entity’s established policies and procedures.
SEC-regulated entities that must comply with the collections of information required by
Regulation S-ID should already be in compliance with the identity theft red flags rules that the

67

Agencies jointly adopted in 2007. 176 The requirements of those rules are substantially similar
and comparable to the requirements of Regulation S-ID. 177
In addition, SEC staff understands that most SEC-regulated entities that are financial
institutions or creditors may otherwise have in place many of the protections regarding identity
theft and changes of address that Regulation S-ID requires because they are usual and customary
business practices that they engage in to minimize losses from fraud. Furthermore, SEC staff
believes that many of them are likely to have already effectively implemented most of the
requirements as a result of having to comply (or an affiliate having to comply) with other,
existing statutes, regulations and guidance, such as the federal CIP rules implementing section
326 of the USA PATRIOT Act, 178 the Interagency Guidelines Establishing Information Security
Standards that implement section 501(b) of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA), 179 section
216 of the FACT Act, 180 and guidance issued by the Agencies or the Federal Financial
Institutions Examination Council regarding information security, authentication, identity theft,
and response programs. 181
176

SEC staff, however, understands that a number of investment advisers may not currently have
identity theft red flags Programs. See supra note 55. Under the new guidance, for entities having
now determined that they should comply with Regulation S-ID, the collections of information
required by Regulation S-ID and the estimates of time and costs discussed below may be new.
As discussed further below, SEC staff estimates that there are approximately 3791 investment
advisers that are currently registered with the SEC and are likely to qualify as financial
institutions or creditors. SEC staff is unable to estimate how many of these investment advisers
previously complied with the Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules.

177

See 2007 Adopting Release, supra note 8, at Section VI.A (discussing the PRA analysis with
respect to the Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules); “FTC Extends Enforcement Deadline for
Identity Theft Red Flags Rule” at http://www.ftc.gov/opa/2010/05/redflags.shtm.

178

31 U.S.C. 5318(l) (requiring verification of the identity of persons opening accounts).

179

15 U.S.C. 6801.

180

15 U.S.C. 1681w.

181

See 2007 Adopting Release, supra note 8, at nn.55–57 (describing applicable statutes,
regulations, and guidance).

68

SEC staff estimates of time and cost burdens represent the one-time burden of complying
with Regulation S-ID for newly-formed SEC-regulated entities, and the ongoing costs of
compliance for all SEC-regulated entities. 182 SEC staff estimates also attribute all burdens to
entities that are directly subject to the requirements of the rulemaking. An entity directly subject
to Regulation S-ID that outsources activities to a service provider is, in effect, shifting to that
service provider the burden that it would otherwise have carried itself. Under these
circumstances, the burden is, by contract, shifted from the entity that is directly subject to
Regulation S-ID to the service provider, but the total amount of burden is not increased. Thus,
service provider burdens are already included in the burden estimates provided for entities that
are directly subject to Regulation S-ID. The time and cost estimates made here are based on
conversations with industry representatives and on a review of comments received on the
proposed rules as well as the estimates made in the regulatory analyses of the identity theft red
flags rules previously issued by the Agencies.
2.

Section 248.201 (duties regarding the detection, prevention, and
mitigation of identity theft)

The collections of information required by section 248.201 apply to SEC-regulated
entities that are financial institutions or creditors. 183 As stated above, SEC staff expects that
SEC-regulated entities should already have incurred initial or one-time burdens associated with

182

Based on discussions with industry representatives and a review of applicable law, SEC staff
expects that, of the SEC-regulated entities that fall within the scope of Regulation S-ID, most
broker-dealers, many investment companies (including almost all open-end investment
companies and ESCs), and some registered investment advisers will likely qualify as financial
institutions or creditors. SEC staff expects that other SEC-regulated entities described in the
scope section of Regulation S-ID, such as BDCs, transfer agents, NRSROs, SROs, and clearing
agencies may be less likely to be financial institutions or creditors as defined in the rules, and
therefore we do not include these entities in our estimates.

183

§ 248.201(a).

69

compliance with Regulation S-ID because they should already be in compliance with the
substantially identical requirements of the Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules. 184 Any initial
or one-time burden estimates associated with compliance with section 248.201 of Regulation
S-ID apply only to newly-formed entities. The ongoing burden estimates apply to all
SEC-regulated entities that are financial institutions or creditors. Existing entities subject to
Regulation S-ID should already bear, and will continue to be subject to, this burden. In the
Proposing Release, the SEC solicited comment on its estimates of the burdens associated with
the collections of information required by section 248.201; one commenter raised concerns with
the estimates in the Proposing Release, arguing that actual burdens could be greater than
estimated. 185
i.

Initial Burden

SEC staff estimates that the one-time burden of compliance with section 248.201 for
SEC-regulated financial institutions and creditors with covered accounts is: (i) 25 hours to
develop and obtain board approval of a Program; (ii) 4 hours to train staff; and (iii) 2 hours to
conduct an initial assessment of covered accounts, for a total of 31 hours. SEC staff estimates
that, of the 31 hours incurred, 12 hours will be spent by internal counsel, 17 hours will be spent
by administrative assistants, and 2 hours will be spent by the board of directors as a whole for
newly-formed entities.

184

See 2007 Adopting Release, supra note 8, at Section VI.A (discussing the PRA analysis with
respect to the Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules). Because the requirements of Regulation SID are substantially identical to the requirements of the Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules,
the SEC staff took the Agencies’ PRA analysis into account in estimating the regulatory burdens
of Regulation S-ID.

185

See supra note 162 and accompanying text.

70

SEC staff estimates that approximately 668 SEC-regulated financial institutions and
creditors are newly formed each year. 186 Each of these 668 entities will need to conduct an
initial assessment of covered accounts, for a total of 1336 hours. 187 Of these 668 entities, SEC
staff estimates that approximately 90% (or 601) maintain covered accounts. 188 Accordingly,
SEC staff estimates that the total initial burden for the 601 newly formed SEC-regulated entities
that are likely to qualify as financial institutions or creditors and maintain covered accounts is
18,631 hours, and the total initial burden for all newly formed SEC-regulated entities is 18,765
hours. 189
ii.

Ongoing Burden

SEC staff estimates that the ongoing burden of compliance with section 248.201
includes: (i) 2 hours to conduct periodic assessments to determine if the entity offers or
maintains covered accounts; (ii) 4 hours to prepare and present an annual report to the board; and
(iii) 2 hours to periodically review and update the Program, including review and preservation of
186

Based on a review of new registrations typically filed with the SEC each year, SEC staff
estimates that approximately 900 investment advisers, 231 broker-dealers, 139 investment
companies, and 1 ESC typically apply for registration with the SEC or otherwise are newly
formed each year, for a total of 1271 entities that could be financial institutions or creditors. Of
these, SEC staff estimates that all of the investment companies, ESCs, and broker-dealers are
likely to qualify as financial institutions or creditors, and 33% (or 297) of investment advisers are
likely to qualify, for a total of 668 total financial institutions or creditors that will bear the initial
one-time burden of assessing covered accounts under Regulation S-ID. Information regarding the
method used to estimate that 33% of investment advisers are likely to qualify as financial
institutions or creditors can be found in note 190 below.

187

This estimate is based on the following calculation: 668 entities x 2 hours = 1336 hours.

188

In the Proposing Release, the SEC requested comment on the estimate that approximately 90% of
all financial institutions and creditors maintain covered accounts; the SEC received no comments
on this estimate.

189

These estimates are based on the following calculations: 601 financial institutions and creditors
that maintain covered accounts x 31 hours = 18,631 hours; 17,429 hours (601 financial
institutions and creditors that maintain covered accounts x 29 hours) + 1336 hours (burden for all
SEC-regulated entities that are financial institutions or creditors to conduct an initial assessment
of covered accounts) = 18,765 hours.

71

contracts with service providers, and review and preservation of any documentation received
from service providers, for a total of 8 hours. SEC staff estimates that, of the 8 hours incurred, 7
hours will be spent by internal counsel and 1 hour will be spent by the board of directors as a
whole.
SEC staff estimates that there are 10,339 SEC-regulated entities that are either financial
institutions or creditors, and that all of these are required to periodically review their accounts to
determine if they offer or maintain covered accounts, for a total of 20,678 hours for these
entities. 190 Of these 10,339 entities, SEC staff estimates that approximately 90%, or 9305,
maintain covered accounts, and thus will bear the additional burdens related to complying with
190

Based on a review of entities that the SEC regulates, SEC staff estimates that, as of July 1, 2012,
there are approximately 11,622 investment advisers, 4706 broker-dealers, 1692 active open-end
investment companies, and 150 ESCs. Of these, SEC staff estimates that all of the
broker-dealers, open-end investment companies and ESCs are likely to qualify as financial
institutions or creditors, and approximately 3791 investment advisers (or about 33%, as explained
further below) are likely to qualify, for a total of 10,339 total financial institutions or creditors
that will bear the ongoing burden of assessing covered accounts under Regulation S-ID. (The
SEC staff estimates that the other types of entities that are covered by the scope of the SEC’s
rules will not be financial institutions or creditors and therefore will not be subject to the rules’
requirements. See supra note 182.) The total hours estimate is based on the following
calculation: 10,339 entities x 2 hours = 20,678 hours.
The SEC staff estimate that 33% of SEC-registered investment advisers will be subject to the
requirements of Regulation S-ID is based on the following calculation. According to Investment
Adviser Registration Depository (IARD) data, there are approximately 11,622 investment
advisers registered with the SEC as of July 1, 2012. Of these advisers, approximately 7327 could
potentially be subject to the rule as financial institutions because they indicate they have
customers who are natural persons. We estimate that approximately 16%, or 1202 of these 7327
advisers, hold transaction accounts belonging to natural persons and therefore would qualify as
financial institutions under the rule. Additionally, 4055 of the 11,622 advisers registered with the
SEC have private fund clients. We expect that most of the funds advised by these advisers would
have at least one natural person investor, and thus they could potentially meet the definition of
“financial institution.” In addition, some of these private fund advisers may engage in lending
activities that would also qualify them as creditors under the rule. In order to avoid duplication,
however, we are deducting 1466 private fund advisers from the total number of advisers we
estimate will be subject to the rule, because they also indicated on Form ADV that they have
individual or high net worth clients and are already accounted for in our estimates above.
Accordingly, the staff estimates that approximately 3791 (i.e., 1202 + 4055 – 1466) advisers
registered with the SEC will be subject to the rule. These 3791 advisers are about 33% of the
11,622 SEC-registered advisers.

72

the rules. 191 Accordingly, SEC staff estimates that the total ongoing burden for these 9305
financial institutions and creditors that maintain covered accounts will be 74,440 hours. 192 The
estimated total ongoing burden for the 10,339 SEC-regulated entities that are financial
institutions or creditors covered by Regulation S-ID will be 76,508 hours. 193
2.

Section 248.202 (duties of card issuers regarding changes of address).

The collections of information required by section 248.202 apply only to SEC-regulated
entities that issue credit or debit cards. 194 SEC staff understands that SEC-regulated entities
generally do not issue credit or debit cards, but instead have arrangements with other entities,
such as banks, that issue cards on their behalf. These other entities, which are not regulated by
the SEC, are already subject to substantially similar change of address obligations pursuant to the
Agencies’ identity theft red flags rules. In addition, SEC staff understands that card issuers
already assess the validity of change of address requests and, for the most part, have automated
the process of notifying the cardholder or using other means to assess the validity of changes of
address. Therefore, implementation of this requirement poses no further burden.
SEC staff does not expect that any SEC-regulated entities will be subject to the
information collection requirements of section 248.202. Accordingly, SEC staff estimates that
191

In the Proposing Release, the SEC requested comment on the estimate that approximately 90% of
all financial institutions and creditors maintain covered accounts; the SEC received no comments
on this estimate. See supra note 188 and accompanying text. If a financial institution or creditor
does not maintain covered accounts, there will be no ongoing annual burden for purposes of the
PRA.

192

This estimate is based on the following calculation: 9305 financial institutions and creditors that
maintain covered accounts x 8 hours = 74,440 hours.

193

This estimate is based on the following calculation: 20,678 hours (10,339 financial institutions
and creditors x 2 hours (for review of accounts)) + 55,830 hours (9305 financial institutions and
creditors that maintain covered accounts x 6 hours (for report to board, and review and update of
Program)) = 76,508 hours.

194

§ 248.202(a).

73

there is no hourly or cost burden for SEC-regulated entities related to section 248.202. In the
Proposing Release, the SEC solicited comment on this same estimate of the burdens associated
with the collections of information required by section 248.202 and received no comments on its
burden estimate.
D.

Regulatory Flexibility Act

CFTC:
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”) requires that federal agencies consider whether
the rules they propose will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small
entities and, if so, provide a regulatory flexibility analysis respecting the impact. 195 The CFTC
has already established certain definitions of “small entities” to be used in evaluating the impact
of its rules on such small entities in accordance with the RFA. 196 The CFTC’s final identity theft
red flags regulations affect FCMs, RFEDs, IBs, CTAs, CPOs, SDs, and MSPs. SDs and MSPs
are new categories of registrants. Accordingly, the CFTC has noted in other rule proposals that it
has not previously addressed the question of whether such persons were, in fact, small entities
for purposes of the RFA. 197
In this regard, the CFTC has previously determined that FCMs should not be considered
to be small entities for purposes of the RFA, based, in part, upon FCMs’ obligation to meet the
minimum financial requirements established by the CFTC to enhance the protection of
customers’ segregated funds and protect the financial condition of FCMs generally. 198 Like

195

See 5 U.S.C. 601–612.

196

47 FR 18618 (Apr. 30, 1982).

197

See 75 FR 81519 (Dec. 28, 2010); 76 FR 6708 (Feb. 8, 2011); 76 FR 6715 (Feb. 8, 2011).

198

See, e.g., 75 FR 81519 (Dec. 28, 2010).

74

FCMs, SDs will be subject to minimum capital and margin requirements, and are expected to
comprise the largest global financial institutions—and the CFTC is required to exempt from
designation as an SD entities that engage in a de minimis level of swaps dealing in connection
with transactions with or on behalf of customers. Accordingly, for purposes of the RFA, the
CFTC has determined that SDs not be considered “small entities” for essentially the same
reasons that it has previously determined FCMs not to be small entities. 199
The CFTC also has previously determined that large traders are not “small entities” for
RFA purposes, with the CFTC considering the size of a trader’s position to be the only
appropriate test for the purpose of large trader reporting. 200 The CFTC also has noted that MSPs
maintain substantial positions in swaps, creating substantial counterparty exposure that could
have serious adverse effects on the financial stability of the United States banking system or
financial markets. 201 Accordingly, for purposes of the RFA, the CFTC has determined that
MSPs not be considered “small entities” for essentially the same reasons that it has previously
determined large traders not to be small entities. 202
The CFTC did not receive any comments on its analysis of the application of the RFA to
SDs and MSPs. Moreover, the CFTC has issued final rules in which it determined that the
registration and regulation of SDs and MSPs would not have a significant economic impact on a
substantial number of small entities. 203

199

Id.

200

See 47 FR 18618 (Apr. 30, 1982).

201

See, e.g., 75 FR 81519 (Dec. 28, 2010).

202
203

Id.
See, e.g., 77 FR 2613 (Jan. 19, 2012); 77 FR 20128 (Apr. 3, 2012).

75

Further, the CFTC has determined that the requirements on financial institutions and
creditors, and card issuers set forth in the identity theft red flags rules, respectively, will not have
a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because many of these
entities are already complying with the identity theft red flags rules of the Agencies. Moreover,
the CFTC believes that the rules include a great deal of flexibility to assist its regulated entities
in complying with such rules and guidelines.
In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the CFTC Chairman, on behalf of the CFTC,
certifies that these rules will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of
small entities.
SEC:
The SEC has prepared the following Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (“FRFA”)
regarding Regulation S-ID in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 604. The SEC included an Initial
Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (“IRFA”) in the Proposing Release in February 2012. 204
1.

Need for Regulation S-ID

The FACT Act, which amended FCRA to address identity theft red flags, was enacted in
part to help prevent the theft of consumer information. The statute contains several provisions
relating to the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft. Section 1088(a) of the
Dodd-Frank Act amended section 615(e) of the FCRA by adding the SEC (and CFTC) to the list
of federal agencies required to adopt rules related to the detection, prevention, and mitigation of
identity theft. Regulation S-ID implements the statutory directives in section 615(e) of the
FCRA, which require the SEC to adopt identity theft rules jointly with the Agencies and the
CFTC.
204

See Proposing Release, supra note 12.

76

Section 615(e) requires the SEC to adopt rules that require financial institutions and
creditors to establish policies and procedures to implement guidelines established by the SEC
that address identity theft with respect to account holders and customers. Section 615(e) also
requires the SEC to adopt rules applicable to credit and debit card issuers to implement policies
and procedures to assess the validity of change of address requests.
2.

Significant Issues Raised by Public Comment

In the Proposing Release, we requested comment on the IRFA. None of the comment
letters we received specifically addressed the IRFA. None of the comment letters made specific
comments about Regulation S-ID’s impact on smaller financial institutions and creditors.
3.

Small Entities Subject to the Rule

For purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”), an investment company is a
small entity if it, together with other investment companies in the same group of related
investment companies, has net assets of $50 million or less as of the end of its most recent fiscal
year. SEC staff estimates that approximately 119 of the 1692 active open-end investment
companies registered on Form N-1A meet this definition. 205
Under SEC rules, for purposes of the Investment Advisers Act and the RFA, an
investment adviser generally is a small entity if it: (i) has assets under management having a
total value of less than $25 million; (ii) did not have total assets of $5 million or more on the last
day of its most recent fiscal year; and (iii) does not control, is not controlled by, and is not under
common control with another investment adviser that has assets under management of $25
million or more, or any person (other than a natural person) that had total assets of $5 million or

205

This information is based on staff analysis of information from filings on Form N-SAR and from
databases compiled by third-party information providers, including Lipper Inc.

77

more on the last day of its most recent fiscal year. 206 Based on information in filings submitted
to the SEC, 561 of the approximately 11,622 investment advisers registered with the SEC are
small entities. 207
For purposes of the RFA, a broker-dealer is a small business if it had total capital (net
worth plus subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the date in the prior fiscal year as of
which its audited financial statements were prepared pursuant to rule 17a-5(d) of the Exchange
Act or, if not required to file such statements, a broker-dealer that had total capital (net worth
plus subordinated liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the last business day of the preceding
fiscal year (or in the time that it has been in business, if shorter) and if it is not an affiliate of an
entity that is not a small business. 208 SEC staff estimates that approximately 797 broker-dealers
meet this definition. 209
4.

Projected Reporting, Recordkeeping, and Other Compliance
Requirements

Section 615(e) of the FCRA, as amended by section 1088 of the Dodd-Frank Act,
requires the SEC to adopt rules that require financial institutions and creditors to establish
reasonable policies and procedures to implement guidelines established by the SEC that address
identity theft with respect to account holders and customers. Section 248.201 of Regulation S-ID
implements this mandate by requiring a covered financial institution or creditor that offers or

206

17 CFR 275.0-7(a).

207

This information is based on data from the Investment Adviser Registration Depository (IARD)
as of July 1, 2012.

208

17 CFR 240.0–10(c).

209

This estimate is based on information provided in FOCUS Reports filed with the SEC as of July
1, 2012. There are approximately 4706 broker-dealers registered with the SEC.

78

maintains certain accounts to create an identity theft prevention Program that detects, prevents,
and mitigates the risk of identity theft applicable to these accounts.
Section 615(e) also requires the SEC to adopt rules applicable to credit and debit card
issuers to implement policies and procedures to assess the validity of change of address requests.
Section 248.202 of Regulation S-ID implements this requirement by requiring credit and debit
card issuers to establish reasonable policies and procedures to assess the validity of a change of
address if it receives notification of a change of address for a credit or debit card account and
within a short period of time afterwards (within 30 days), the issuer receives a request for an
additional or replacement card for the same account.
Because all SEC-regulated entities, including small entities, should already be in
compliance with the substantially similar identity theft red flags rules that the Agencies began
enforcing in 2008 and 2011, 210 Regulation S-ID should not impose new compliance,
recordkeeping, or reporting burdens. If a SEC-regulated small entity is not already in
compliance with the existing identity theft red flags rules issued by the Agencies, the burden of
compliance with Regulation S-ID should be minimal because we understand that these entities
already engage in various activities to minimize losses due to fraud as part of their usual and
customary business practices. In particular, the rules allow these entities to consolidate their
existing policies and procedures into their written Program and may require some additional staff
training. Accordingly, the impact of the requirements should be largely incremental and not
significant, and we do not anticipate that Regulation S-ID will disproportionately affect small
entities.

210

See supra note 8.

79

The SEC has estimated the costs of Regulation S-ID for all entities (including small
entities) in the PRA and economic analysis included in this release. No new classes of skills are
required to comply with Regulation S-ID. SEC staff does not anticipate that small entities will
face unique or special burdens when complying with Regulation S-ID.
5.

Agency Action to Minimize Effect on Small Entities

The RFA directs the SEC to consider significant alternatives that would accomplish our
stated objective, while minimizing any significant economic impact on small issuers. In
connection with Regulation S-ID, the SEC considered the following alternatives: (i) the
establishment of differing compliance or reporting requirements or timetables that take into
account the resources available to small entities; (ii) the clarification, consolidation, or
simplification of compliance requirements under Regulation S-ID for small entities; (iii) the use
of performance rather than design standards; and (iv) an exemption from coverage of Regulation
S-ID, or any part thereof, for small entities.
Regulation S-ID requires covered financial institutions and creditors that offer or
maintain certain accounts to create an identity theft prevention Program and report to the board
of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a designated senior management employee at
least annually on compliance with the regulations. Credit and debit card issuers are required to
respond to a change of address request by notifying the cardholder or using other means to assess
the validity of a change of address.
The standards in Regulation S-ID are flexible, and take into account a covered financial
institution or creditor’s size and sophistication, as well as the costs and benefits of alternative
compliance methods. A Program under Regulation S-ID should be tailored to the risk of identity
theft in a financial institution or creditor’s covered accounts, thereby permitting small entities

80

whose accounts pose a low risk of identity theft to avoid much of the cost of compliance.
Because small entities maintain covered accounts that pose a risk of identity theft for consumers
just as larger entities do, providing an exemption from Regulation S-ID for small entities could
subject consumers with covered accounts at small entities to a higher risk of identity theft.
Pursuant to section 615(e) of the FCRA, as amended by section 1088 of the Dodd-Frank
Act, the SEC and the CFTC are jointly adopting identity theft red flags rules that are
substantially similar and comparable to the identity theft red flags rules previously adopted by
the Agencies. Providing a new exemption for small entities, or further consolidating or
simplifying the regulations for small entities, could result in significant differences between the
identity theft red flags rules adopted by the Commissions and the rules adopted by the Agencies.
Because SEC-regulated entities, including small entities, should already be in compliance with
the substantially similar identity theft red flags rules that the Agencies began enforcing in 2008
and 2011, SEC staff does not expect that small entities will need a delayed effective or
compliance date beyond that already provided to all entities subject to the rules.
IV.

STATUTORY AUTHORITY AND TEXT OF AMENDMENTS
The CFTC is amending Part 162 under the authority set forth in sections 1088(a)(8),

1088(a)(10), and 1088(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act, 211 and sections 615(e), 621(b), 624, and 628 of
the FCRA. 212
The SEC is adopting Regulation S-ID under the authority set forth in sections 1088(a)(8),
1088(a)(10), and 1088(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act, 213 section 615(e) of the FCRA, 214 sections 17

211

Pub. L. No. 111-203, §§ 1088(a)(8), 1088(a)(10), and § 1088(b), 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

212

15 U.S.C 1681m(e), 1681s(b), 1681s-3 and note, and 1681w(a)(1).

213

Pub. L. No. 111-203, §§ 1088(a)(8), 1088(a)(10), 1088(b), 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

81

and 23 of the Exchange Act, 215 sections 31 and 38 of the Investment Company Act, 216 and
sections 204 and 211 of the Investment Advisers Act. 217
List of Subjects
17 CFR Part 162
Cardholders, Card issuers, Commodity pool operators, Commodity trading advisors,
Confidential business information, Consumer reports, Credit, Creditors, Consumer, Customer,
Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act, Financial institutions,
Futures commission merchants, Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Identity theft, Introducing brokers,
Major swap participants, Privacy, Red flags, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Retail
foreign exchange dealers, Self-regulatory organizations, Service provider, Swap dealers.
17 CFR Part 248
Affiliate marketing, Brokers, Cardholders, Card issuers, Confidential business
information, Consumers, Consumer financial information, Consumer reports, Credit, Creditors,
Customers, Dealers, Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act, Fair Credit Reporting Act,
Financial institutions, Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Identity theft, Investment advisers, Investment
companies, Privacy, Red flags, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities, Security
measures, Self-regulatory organizations, Service providers, Transfer agents.

214

15 U.S.C. 1681m(e).

215

15 U.S.C. 78q and 78w.

216

15 U.S.C. 80a-30 and 80a-37.

217

15 U.S.C. 80b-4 and 80b-11.

82

TEXT OF FINAL RULES
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
For the reasons stated above in the preamble, the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission is amending 17 CFR part 162 to read as follows:
1. Add subpart C to part 162 read as follows:
Subpart C—Identity Theft Red Flags
Sec.
162.22–162.29 [Reserved]
162.30 Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
Subpart C—Identity Theft Red Flags
§ 162.30 Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
(a) Scope of this subpart. This section applies to financial institutions or creditors that are
subject to administrative enforcement of the FCRA by the Commission pursuant to Sec.
621(b)(1) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681s(b)(1).
(b) Special definitions for this subpart. For purposes of this section, and Appendix B, the
following definitions apply:
(1) Account means a continuing relationship established by a person with a financial
institution or creditor to obtain a product or service for personal, family, household or business
purposes. Account includes an extension of credit, such as the purchase of property or services
involving a deferred payment.
(2) The term board of directors includes:
(i) In the case of a branch or agency of a foreign bank, the managing official in charge of
the branch or agency; and

83

(ii) In the case of any other creditor that does not have a board of directors, a designated
senior management employee.
(3) Covered account means:
(i) An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit multiple payments
or transactions, such as a margin account; and
(ii) Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains for
which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of the
financial institution or creditor from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance,
reputation, or litigation risks.
(4) Credit has the same meaning in Sec. 603(r)(5) of the FCRA, 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(5) Creditor has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4), and includes any futures
commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor, commodity
pool operator, introducing broker, swap dealer, or major swap participant that regularly extends,
renews, or continues credit; regularly arranges for the extension, renewal, or continuation of
credit; or in acting as an assignee of an original creditor, participates in the decision to extend,
renew, or continue credit.
(6) Customer means a person that has a covered account with a financial institution or
creditor.
(7) Financial institution has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(t) and includes any
futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, commodity trading advisor,
commodity pool operator, introducing broker, swap dealer, or major swap participant that
directly or indirectly holds a transaction account belonging to a consumer.

84

(8) Identifying information means any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person, including any—
(i) Name, Social Security number, date of birth, official State or government issued
driver’s license or identification number, alien registration number, government passport
number, employer or taxpayer identification number;
(ii) Unique biometric data, such as fingerprint, voice print, retina or iris image, or other
unique physical representation;
(iii) Unique electronic identification number, address, or routing code; or
(iv) Telecommunication identifying information or access device (as defined in 18 U.S.C.
1029(e)).
(9) Identity theft means a fraud committed or attempted using the identifying information
of another person without authority.
(10) Red Flag means a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible
existence of identity theft.
(11) Service provider means a person that provides a service directly to the financial
institution or creditor.
(c) Periodic identification of covered accounts. Each financial institution or creditor
must periodically determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts. As a part of this
determination, a financial institution or creditor shall conduct a risk assessment to determine
whether it offers or maintains covered accounts described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section,
taking into consideration:
(1) The methods it provides to open its accounts;
(2) The methods it provides to access its accounts; and

85

(3) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(d) Establishment of an Identity Theft Prevention Program–(1) Program requirement.
Each financial institution or creditor that offers or maintains one or more covered accounts must
develop and implement a written Identity Theft Prevention Program that is designed to detect,
prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any
existing covered account. The Identity Theft Prevention Program must be appropriate to the size
and complexity of the financial institution or creditor and the nature and scope of its activities.
(2) Elements of the Identity Theft Prevention Program. The Identity Theft Prevention
Program must include reasonable policies and procedures to:
(i) Identify relevant Red Flags for the covered accounts that the financial institution or
creditor offers or maintains, and incorporate those Red Flags into its Identity Theft Prevention
Program;
(ii) Detect Red Flags that have been incorporated into the Identity Theft Prevention
Program of the financial institution or creditor;
(iii) Respond appropriately to any Red Flags that are detected pursuant to paragraph
(d)(2)(ii) of this section to prevent and mitigate identity theft; and
(iv) Ensure the Identity Theft Prevention Program (including the Red Flags determined to
be relevant) is updated periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers and to the safety and
soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft.
(e) Administration of the Identity Theft Prevention Program. Each financial institution or
creditor that is required to implement an Identity Theft Prevention Program must provide for the
continued administration of the Identity Theft Prevention Program and must:

86

(1) Obtain approval of the initial written Identity Theft Prevention Program from either
its board of directors or an appropriate committee of the board of directors;
(2) Involve the board of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a designated
employee at the level of senior management in the oversight, development, implementation and
administration of the Identity Theft Prevention Program;
(3) Train staff, as necessary, to effectively implement the Identity Theft Prevention
Program; and
(4) Exercise appropriate and effective oversight of service provider arrangements.
(f) Guidelines. Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement an
Identity Theft Prevention Program must consider the guidelines in appendix B of this part and
include in its Identity Theft Prevention Program those guidelines that are appropriate.
§ 162.31 [Reserved]
§ 162.32 Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
(a) Scope. This section applies to a person described in § 162.30(a) of this part that
issues a debit or credit card (card issuer).
(b) Definition of cardholder. For purposes of this section, a cardholder means a
consumer who has been issued a credit or debit card.
(c) Address validation requirements. A card issuer must establish and implement
reasonable policies and procedures to assess the validity of a change of address if it receives
notification of a change of address for a consumer’s debit or credit card account and, within a
short period of time afterwards (during at least the first 30 days after it receives such
notification), the card issuer receives a request for an additional or replacement card for the same
account. Under these circumstances, the card issuer may not issue an additional or replacement

87

card, until, in accordance with its reasonable policies and procedures and for the purpose of
assessing the validity of the change of address, the card issuer:
(1)(i) Notifies the cardholder of the request:
(A) At the cardholder’s former address; or
(B) By any other means of communication that the card issuer and the cardholder have
previously agreed to use; and
(ii) Provides to the cardholder a reasonable means of promptly reporting incorrect address
changes; or
(2) Otherwise assesses the validity of the change of address in accordance with the
policies and procedures the card issuer has established pursuant to § 162.30 of this part.
(d) Alternative timing of address validation. A card issuer may satisfy the requirements
of paragraph (c) of this section if it validates an address pursuant to the methods in paragraph
(c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section when it receives an address change notification, before it receives a
request for an additional or replacement card.
(e) Form of notice. Any written or electronic notice that the card issuer provides under
this paragraph must be clear and conspicuous and provided separately from its regular
correspondence with the cardholder.
2. Add Appendix B to part 162 to read as follows:
Appendix B to Part 162—Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection, Prevention,
and Mitigation
Section 162.30 of this part requires each financial institution or creditor that offers or
maintains one or more covered accounts, as defined in § 162.30(b)(3) of this part, to develop and
provide for the continued administration of a written Identity Theft Prevention Program to detect,

88

prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection with the opening of a covered account or any
existing covered account. These guidelines are intended to assist financial institutions and
creditors in the formulation and maintenance of an Identity Theft Prevention Program that
satisfies the requirements of § 162.30 of this part.
I.

The Identity Theft Prevention Program
In designing its Identity Theft Prevention Program, a financial institution or creditor may

incorporate, as appropriate, its existing policies, procedures, and other arrangements that control
reasonably foreseeable risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial
institution or creditor from identity theft.
II.

Identifying Relevant Red Flags
(a) Risk factors. A financial institution or creditor should consider the following factors

in identifying relevant Red Flags for covered accounts, as appropriate:
(1) The types of covered accounts it offers or maintains;
(2) The methods it provides to open its covered accounts;
(3) The methods it provides to access its covered accounts; and
(4) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(b) Sources of Red Flags. Financial institutions and creditors should incorporate relevant
Red Flags from sources such as:
(1) Incidents of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has experienced;
(2) Methods of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has identified that
reflect changes in identity theft risks; and
(3) Applicable supervisory guidance.

89

(c) Categories of Red Flags. The Identity Theft Prevention Program should include
relevant Red Flags from the following categories, as appropriate. Examples of Red Flags from
each of these categories are appended as Supplement A to this Appendix B.
(1) Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer reporting agencies or
service providers, such as fraud detection services;
(2) The presentation of suspicious documents;
(3) The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information, such as a suspicious
address change;
(4) The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a covered account; and
(5) Notice from customers, victims of identity theft, law enforcement authorities, or other
persons regarding possible identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the
financial institution or creditor.
III.

Detecting Red Flags
The Identity Theft Prevention Program’s policies and procedures should address the

detection of Red Flags in connection with the opening of covered accounts and existing covered
accounts, such as by:
(a) Obtaining identifying information about, and verifying the identity of, a person
opening a covered account; and
(b) Authenticating customers, monitoring transactions, and verifying the validity of
change of address requests, in the case of existing covered accounts.

90

IV.

Preventing and Mitigating Identity Theft
The Identity Theft Prevention Program’s policies and procedures should provide for

appropriate responses to the Red Flags the financial institution or creditor has detected that are
commensurate with the degree of risk posed. In determining an appropriate response, a financial
institution or creditor should consider aggravating factors that may heighten the risk of identity
theft, such as a data security incident that results in unauthorized access to a customer’s account
records held by the financial institution or creditor, or third party, or notice that a customer has
provided information related to a covered account held by the financial institution or creditor to
someone fraudulently claiming to represent the financial institution or creditor or to a fraudulent
Internet website. Appropriate responses may include the following:
(a) Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
(b) Contacting the customer;
(c) Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices that permit access
to a covered account;
(d) Reopening a covered account with a new account number;
(e) Not opening a new covered account;
(f) Closing an existing covered account;
(g) Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a covered account to a
debt collector;
(h) Notifying law enforcement; or
(i) Determining that no response is warranted under the particular circumstances.

91

V.

Updating the Identity Theft Prevention Program
Financial institutions and creditors should update the Identity Theft Prevention Program

(including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) periodically, to reflect changes in risks to
customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity
theft, based on factors such as:
(a) The experiences of the financial institution or creditor with identity theft;
(b) Changes in methods of identity theft;
(c) Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft;
(d) Changes in the types of accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or
maintains; and
(e) Changes in the business arrangements of the financial institution or creditor, including
mergers, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.
VI.

Methods for Administering the Identity Theft Prevention Program
(a) Oversight of Identity Theft Prevention Program. Oversight by the board of directors,

an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated senior management employee should
include:
(1) Assigning specific responsibility for the Identity Theft Prevention Program’s
implementation;
(2) Reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding compliance by the financial institution
or creditor with § 162.30 of this part; and
(3) Approving material changes to the Identity Theft Prevention Program as necessary to
address changing identity theft risks.

92

(b) Reports. (1) In general. Staff of the financial institution or creditor responsible for
development, implementation, and administration of its Identity Theft Prevention Program
should report to the board of directors, an appropriate committee of the board, or a designated
senior management employee, at least annually, on compliance by the financial institution or
creditor with § 162.30 of this part.
(2) Contents of report. The report should address material matters related to the Identity
Theft Prevention Program and evaluate issues such as: The effectiveness of the policies and
procedures of the financial institution or creditor in addressing the risk of identity theft in
connection with the opening of covered accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts;
service provider arrangements; significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s
response; and recommendations for material changes to the Identity Theft Prevention Program.
(c) Oversight of service provider arrangements. Whenever a financial institution or
creditor engages a service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more
covered accounts the financial institution or creditor should take steps to ensure that the activity
of the service provider is conducted in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures
designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. For example, a financial
institution or creditor could require the service provider by contract to have policies and
procedures to detect relevant Red Flags that may arise in the performance of the service
provider’s activities, and either report the Red Flags to the financial institution or creditor, or to
take appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
VII.

Other Applicable Legal Requirements
Financial institutions and creditors should be mindful of other related legal requirements

that may be applicable, such as:

93

(a) For financial institutions and creditors that are subject to 31 U.S.C. 5318(g), filing a
Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation;
(b) Implementing any requirements under 15 U.S.C. 1681c-1(h) regarding the
circumstances under which credit may be extended when the financial institution or creditor
detects a fraud or active duty alert;
(c) Implementing any requirements for furnishers of information to consumer reporting
agencies under 15 U.S.C. 1681s-2, for example, to correct or update inaccurate or incomplete
information, and to not report information that the furnisher has reasonable cause to believe is
inaccurate; and
(d) Complying with the prohibitions in 15 U.S.C. 1681m on the sale, transfer, and
placement for collection of certain debts resulting from identity theft.
Supplement A to Appendix B
In addition to incorporating Red Flags from the sources recommended in section II(b) of
the Guidelines in Appendix B of this part, each financial institution or creditor may consider
incorporating into its Identity Theft Prevention Program, whether singly or in combination, Red
Flags from the following illustrative examples in connection with covered accounts:
Alerts, Notifications or Warnings from a Consumer Reporting Agency
1. A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer report.
2. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze in response to a
request for a consumer report.
3. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address discrepancy, as defined in
Sec. 603(f) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a(f)).

94

4. A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is inconsistent with the history
and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or customer, such as:
a. A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
b. An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
c. A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect to recently established
credit relationships; or
d. An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of account privileges by a
financial institution or creditor.
Suspicious Documents
5. Documents provided for identification appear to have been altered or forged.
6. The photograph or physical description on the identification is not consistent with the
appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the identification.
7. Other information on the identification is not consistent with information provided by
the person opening a new covered account or customer presenting the identification.
8. Other information on the identification is not consistent with readily accessible
information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor, such as a signature card or a
recent check.
9. An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the appearance of
having been destroyed and reassembled.
Suspicious Personal Identifying Information
10. Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when compared against
external information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address does not match any address in the consumer report; or

95

b. The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is listed on the Social
Security Administration’s Death Master File.
11. Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not consistent with
other personal identifying information provided by the customer. For example, there is a lack of
correlation between the SSN range and date of birth.
12. Personal identifying information provided is associated with known fraudulent
activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor.
For example:
a. The address on an application is the same as the address provided on a fraudulent
application; or
b. The phone number on an application is the same as the number provided on a
fraudulent application.
13. Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly associated with
fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution
or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a prison; or
b. The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or answering service.
14. The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons opening an account
or other customers.
15. The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar to the address or
telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of other persons opening accounts or
by other customers.

96

16. The person opening the covered account or the customer fails to provide all required
personal identifying information on an application or in response to notification that the
application is incomplete.
17. Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with personal identifying
information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor.
18. For financial institutions or creditors that use challenge questions, the person opening
the covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information beyond that
which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer report.
Unusual Use of, or Suspicious Activity Related to, the Covered Account
19. Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered account, the
institution or creditor receives a request for a new, additional, or replacement means of accessing
the account or for the addition of an authorized user on the account.
20. A new revolving credit account is used in a manner commonly associated with
known patterns of fraud. For example:
a. The majority of available credit is used for cash advances or merchandise that is easily
convertible to cash (e.g., electronics equipment or jewelry); or
b. The customer fails to make the first payment or makes an initial payment but no
subsequent payments.
21. A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with established patterns
of activity on the account. There is, for example:
a. Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
b. A material increase in the use of available credit;
c. A material change in purchasing or spending patterns;

97

d. A material change in electronic fund transfer patterns in connection with a deposit
account; or
e. A material change in telephone call patterns in connection with a cellular phone
account.
22. A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy period of time is
used (taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of usage and other
relevant factors).
23. Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable although
transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the customer’s covered account.
24. The financial institution or creditor is notified that the customer is not receiving
paper account statements.
25. The financial institution or creditor is notified of unauthorized charges or
transactions in connection with a customer’s covered account.
Notice from Customers, Victims of Identity Theft, Law Enforcement Authorities, or Other
Persons Regarding Possible Identity Theft in Connection With Covered Accounts Held by the
Financial Institution or Creditor
26. The financial institution or creditor is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a fraudulent account for
a person engaged in identity theft.

98

Securities and Exchange Commission
For the reasons stated in the preamble, the Securities and Exchange Commission is
amending 17 CFR part 248 as follows:
Part 248–REGULATIONS S-P, S-AM, AND S-ID
3. The authority citation for part 248 is revised to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78q, 78q-1, 78o-4, 78o-5, 78w, 78mm, 80a-30, 80a-37, 80b-4,
80b-11, 1681m(e), 1681s(b), 1681s-3 and note, 1681w(a)(1), 6801–6809, and 6825; Pub. L.
111-203, §§ 1088(a)(8), (a)(10), and § 1088(b), 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).
4. Revise the heading for part 248 to read as set forth above.
5. Add subpart C to part 248 to read as follows:
Subpart C–Regulation S-ID: Identity Theft Red Flags
Sec.
248.201 Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
248.202 Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 248 – Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection,
Prevention, and Mitigation
Subpart C–Regulation S-ID: Identity Theft Red Flags
§ 248.201 Duties regarding the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft.
(a) Scope. This section applies to a financial institution or creditor, as defined in the Fair
Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681), that is:
(1) A broker, dealer or any other person that is registered or required to be registered
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934;

99

(2) An investment company that is registered or required to be registered under the
Investment Company Act of 1940, that has elected to be regulated as a business development
company under that Act, or that operates as an employees’ securities company under that Act; or
(3) An investment adviser that is registered or required to be registered under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940.
(b) Definitions. For purposes of this subpart, and Appendix A of this subpart, the
following definitions apply:
(1) Account means a continuing relationship established by a person with a financial
institution or creditor to obtain a product or service for personal, family, household or business
purposes. Account includes a brokerage account, a mutual fund account (i.e., an account with an
open-end investment company), and an investment advisory account.
(2) The term board of directors includes:
(i) In the case of a branch or agency of a foreign financial institution or creditor, the
managing official of that branch or agency; and
(ii) In the case of a financial institution or creditor that does not have a board of directors,
a designated employee at the level of senior management.
(3) Covered account means:
(i) An account that a financial institution or creditor offers or maintains, primarily for
personal, family, or household purposes, that involves or is designed to permit multiple payments
or transactions, such as a brokerage account with a broker-dealer or an account maintained by a
mutual fund (or its agent) that permits wire transfers or other payments to third parties; and
(ii) Any other account that the financial institution or creditor offers or maintains for
which there is a reasonably foreseeable risk to customers or to the safety and soundness of the

100

financial institution or creditor from identity theft, including financial, operational, compliance,
reputation, or litigation risks.
(4) Credit has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r)(5).
(5) Creditor has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681m(e)(4).
(6) Customer means a person that has a covered account with a financial institution or
creditor.
(7) Financial institution has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(t).
(8) Identifying information means any name or number that may be used, alone or in
conjunction with any other information, to identify a specific person, including any—
(i) Name, Social Security number, date of birth, official State or government issued
driver’s license or identification number, alien registration number, government passport
number, employer or taxpayer identification number;
(ii) Unique biometric data, such as fingerprint, voice print, retina or iris image, or other
unique physical representation;
(iii) Unique electronic identification number, address, or routing code; or
(iv) Telecommunication identifying information or access device (as defined in 18 U.S.C.
1029(e)).
(9) Identity theft means a fraud committed or attempted using the identifying information
of another person without authority.
(10) Red Flag means a pattern, practice, or specific activity that indicates the possible
existence of identity theft.
(11) Service provider means a person that provides a service directly to the financial
institution or creditor.

101

(12) Other definitions.
(i) Broker has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(4) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(4)).
(ii) Commission means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(iii) Dealer has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(5)).
(iv) Investment adviser has the same meaning as in section 202(a)(11) of the Investment
Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-2(a)(11)).
(v) Investment company has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Investment Company
Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a-3), and includes a separate series of the investment company.
(vi) Other terms not defined in this subpart have the same meaning as in the Fair Credit
Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.).
(c) Periodic Identification of Covered Accounts. Each financial institution or creditor
must periodically determine whether it offers or maintains covered accounts. As a part of this
determination, a financial institution or creditor must conduct a risk assessment to determine
whether it offers or maintains covered accounts described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section,
taking into consideration:
(1) The methods it provides to open its accounts;
(2) The methods it provides to access its accounts; and
(3) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(d) Establishment of an Identity Theft Prevention Program–
(1) Program requirement. Each financial institution or creditor that offers or maintains
one or more covered accounts must develop and implement a written Identity Theft Prevention

102

Program (Program) that is designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in connection
with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. The Program must be
appropriate to the size and complexity of the financial institution or creditor and the nature and
scope of its activities.
(2) Elements of the Program. The Program must include reasonable policies and
procedures to:
(i) Identify relevant Red Flags for the covered accounts that the financial institution or
creditor offers or maintains, and incorporate those Red Flags into its Program;
(ii) Detect Red Flags that have been incorporated into the Program of the financial
institution or creditor;
(iii) Respond appropriately to any Red Flags that are detected pursuant to paragraph
(d)(2)(ii) of this section to prevent and mitigate identity theft; and
(iv) Ensure the Program (including the Red Flags determined to be relevant) is updated
periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers and to the safety and soundness of the
financial institution or creditor from identity theft.
(e) Administration of the Program. Each financial institution or creditor that is required
to implement a Program must provide for the continued administration of the Program and must:
(1) Obtain approval of the initial written Program from either its board of directors or an
appropriate committee of the board of directors;
(2) Involve the board of directors, an appropriate committee thereof, or a designated
employee at the level of senior management in the oversight, development, implementation and
administration of the Program;
(3) Train staff, as necessary, to effectively implement the Program; and

103

(4) Exercise appropriate and effective oversight of service provider arrangements.
(f) Guidelines. Each financial institution or creditor that is required to implement a
Program must consider the guidelines in Appendix A to this subpart and include in its Program
those guidelines that are appropriate.
§ 248.202 Duties of card issuers regarding changes of address.
(a) Scope. This section applies to a person described in § 248.201(a) that issues a credit
or debit card (card issuer).
(b) Definitions. For purposes of this section:
(1) Cardholder means a consumer who has been issued a credit card or debit card as
defined in 15 U.S.C. 1681a(r).
(2) Clear and conspicuous means reasonably understandable and designed to call
attention to the nature and significance of the information presented.
(3) Other terms not defined in this subpart have the same meaning as in the Fair Credit
Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681 et seq.).
(c) Address validation requirements. A card issuer must establish and implement
reasonable written policies and procedures to assess the validity of a change of address if it
receives notification of a change of address for a consumer’s debit or credit card account and,
within a short period of time afterwards (during at least the first 30 days after it receives such
notification), the card issuer receives a request for an additional or replacement card for the same
account. Under these circumstances, the card issuer may not issue an additional or replacement
card, until, in accordance with its reasonable policies and procedures and for the purpose of
assessing the validity of the change of address, the card issuer:
(1)(i) Notifies the cardholder of the request:

104

(A) At the cardholder’s former address; or
(B) By any other means of communication that the card issuer and the cardholder have
previously agreed to use; and
(ii) Provides to the cardholder a reasonable means of promptly reporting incorrect address
changes; or
(2) Otherwise assesses the validity of the change of address in accordance with the
policies and procedures the card issuer has established pursuant to § 248.201.
(d) Alternative timing of address validation. A card issuer may satisfy the requirements
of paragraph (c) of this section if it validates an address pursuant to the methods in paragraph
(c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section when it receives an address change notification, before it receives a
request for an additional or replacement card.
(e) Form of notice. Any written or electronic notice that the card issuer provides under
this paragraph must be clear and conspicuous and be provided separately from its regular
correspondence with the cardholder.
Appendix A to Subpart C of Part 248—Interagency Guidelines on Identity Theft Detection,
Prevention, and Mitigation
Section 248.201 requires each financial institution and creditor that offers or maintains
one or more covered accounts, as defined in § 248.201(b)(3), to develop and provide for the
continued administration of a written Program to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft in
connection with the opening of a covered account or any existing covered account. These
guidelines are intended to assist financial institutions and creditors in the formulation and
maintenance of a Program that satisfies the requirements of § 248.201.

105

I.

The Program
In designing its Program, a financial institution or creditor may incorporate, as

appropriate, its existing policies, procedures, and other arrangements that control reasonably
foreseeable risks to customers or to the safety and soundness of the financial institution or
creditor from identity theft.
II.

Identifying Relevant Red Flags
(a) Risk Factors. A financial institution or creditor should consider the following factors

in identifying relevant Red Flags for covered accounts, as appropriate:
(1) The types of covered accounts it offers or maintains;
(2) The methods it provides to open its covered accounts;
(3) The methods it provides to access its covered accounts; and
(4) Its previous experiences with identity theft.
(b) Sources of Red Flags. Financial institutions and creditors should incorporate relevant
Red Flags from sources such as:
(1) Incidents of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has experienced;
(2) Methods of identity theft that the financial institution or creditor has identified that
reflect changes in identity theft risks; and
(3) Applicable regulatory guidance.
(c) Categories of Red Flags. The Program should include relevant Red Flags from the
following categories, as appropriate. Examples of Red Flags from each of these categories are
appended as Supplement A to this Appendix A.
(1) Alerts, notifications, or other warnings received from consumer reporting agencies or
service providers, such as fraud detection services;

106

(2) The presentation of suspicious documents;
(3) The presentation of suspicious personal identifying information, such as a suspicious
address change;
(4) The unusual use of, or other suspicious activity related to, a covered account; and
(5) Notice from customers, victims of identity theft, law enforcement authorities, or other
persons regarding possible identity theft in connection with covered accounts held by the
financial institution or creditor.
III.

Detecting Red Flags
The Program’s policies and procedures should address the detection of Red Flags in

connection with the opening of covered accounts and existing covered accounts, such as by:
(a) Obtaining identifying information about, and verifying the identity of, a person
opening a covered account, for example, using the policies and procedures regarding
identification and verification set forth in the Customer Identification Program rules
implementing 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) (31 CFR 1023.220 (broker-dealers) and 1024.220 (mutual
funds)); and
(b) Authenticating customers, monitoring transactions, and verifying the validity of
change of address requests, in the case of existing covered accounts.
IV.

Preventing and Mitigating Identity Theft
The Program’s policies and procedures should provide for appropriate responses to the

Red Flags the financial institution or creditor has detected that are commensurate with the degree
of risk posed. In determining an appropriate response, a financial institution or creditor should
consider aggravating factors that may heighten the risk of identity theft, such as a data security
incident that results in unauthorized access to a customer’s account records held by the financial

107

institution, creditor, or third party, or notice that a customer has provided information related to a
covered account held by the financial institution or creditor to someone fraudulently claiming to
represent the financial institution or creditor or to a fraudulent website. Appropriate responses
may include the following:
(a) Monitoring a covered account for evidence of identity theft;
(b) Contacting the customer;
(c) Changing any passwords, security codes, or other security devices that permit access
to a covered account;
(d) Reopening a covered account with a new account number;
(e) Not opening a new covered account;
(f) Closing an existing covered account;
(g) Not attempting to collect on a covered account or not selling a covered account to a
debt collector;
(h) Notifying law enforcement; or
(i) Determining that no response is warranted under the particular circumstances.
V.

Updating the Program
Financial institutions and creditors should update the Program (including the Red Flags

determined to be relevant) periodically, to reflect changes in risks to customers or to the safety
and soundness of the financial institution or creditor from identity theft, based on factors such as:
(a) The experiences of the financial institution or creditor with identity theft;
(b) Changes in methods of identity theft;
(c) Changes in methods to detect, prevent, and mitigate identity theft;
(d) Changes in the types of accounts that the financial institution or creditor offers or

108

maintains; and
(e) Changes in the business arrangements of the financial institution or creditor, including
mergers, acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, and service provider arrangements.
VI.

Methods for Administering the Program
(a) Oversight of Program. Oversight by the board of directors, an appropriate committee

of the board, or a designated employee at the level of senior management should include:
(1) Assigning specific responsibility for the Program’s implementation;
(2) Reviewing reports prepared by staff regarding compliance by the financial institution
or creditor with § 248.201; and
(3) Approving material changes to the Program as necessary to address changing identity
theft risks.
(b) Reports.
(1) In general. Staff of the financial institution or creditor responsible for development,
implementation, and administration of its Program should report to the board of directors, an
appropriate committee of the board, or a designated employee at the level of senior management,
at least annually, on compliance by the financial institution or creditor with § 248.201.
(2) Contents of report. The report should address material matters related to the Program
and evaluate issues such as: the effectiveness of the policies and procedures of the financial
institution or creditor in addressing the risk of identity theft in connection with the opening of
covered accounts and with respect to existing covered accounts; service provider arrangements;
significant incidents involving identity theft and management’s response; and recommendations
for material changes to the Program.
(c) Oversight of service provider arrangements. Whenever a financial institution or

109

creditor engages a service provider to perform an activity in connection with one or more
covered accounts the financial institution or creditor should take steps to ensure that the activity
of the service provider is conducted in accordance with reasonable policies and procedures
designed to detect, prevent, and mitigate the risk of identity theft. For example, a financial
institution or creditor could require the service provider by contract to have policies and
procedures to detect relevant Red Flags that may arise in the performance of the service
provider’s activities, and either report the Red Flags to the financial institution or creditor, or to
take appropriate steps to prevent or mitigate identity theft.
VII.

Other Applicable Legal Requirements
Financial institutions and creditors should be mindful of other related legal requirements

that may be applicable, such as:
(a) For financial institutions and creditors that are subject to 31 U.S.C. 5318(g), filing a
Suspicious Activity Report in accordance with applicable law and regulation;
(b) Implementing any requirements under 15 U.S.C. 1681c-1(h) regarding the
circumstances under which credit may be extended when the financial institution or creditor
detects a fraud or active duty alert;
(c) Implementing any requirements for furnishers of information to consumer reporting
agencies under 15 U.S.C. 1681s-2, for example, to correct or update inaccurate or incomplete
information, and to not report information that the furnisher has reasonable cause to believe is
inaccurate; and
(d) Complying with the prohibitions in 15 U.S.C. 1681m on the sale, transfer, and
placement for collection of certain debts resulting from identity theft.

110

Supplement A to Appendix A
In addition to incorporating Red Flags from the sources recommended in section II.b. of
the Guidelines in Appendix A to this subpart, each financial institution or creditor may consider
incorporating into its Program, whether singly or in combination, Red Flags from the following
illustrative examples in connection with covered accounts:
Alerts, Notifications or Warnings from a Consumer Reporting Agency
1. A fraud or active duty alert is included with a consumer report.
2. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of credit freeze in response to a
request for a consumer report.
3. A consumer reporting agency provides a notice of address discrepancy, as referenced
in Sec. 605(h) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S.C. 1681c(h)).
4. A consumer report indicates a pattern of activity that is inconsistent with the history
and usual pattern of activity of an applicant or customer, such as:
a. A recent and significant increase in the volume of inquiries;
b. An unusual number of recently established credit relationships;
c. A material change in the use of credit, especially with respect to recently established
credit relationships; or
d. An account that was closed for cause or identified for abuse of account privileges by a
financial institution or creditor.
Suspicious Documents
5. Documents provided for identification appear to have been altered or forged.
6. The photograph or physical description on the identification is not consistent with the
appearance of the applicant or customer presenting the identification.

111

7. Other information on the identification is not consistent with information provided by
the person opening a new covered account or customer presenting the identification.
8. Other information on the identification is not consistent with readily accessible
information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor, such as a signature card or a
recent check.
9. An application appears to have been altered or forged, or gives the appearance of
having been destroyed and reassembled.
Suspicious Personal Identifying Information
10. Personal identifying information provided is inconsistent when compared against
external information sources used by the financial institution or creditor. For example:
a. The address does not match any address in the consumer report; or
b. The Social Security Number (SSN) has not been issued, or is listed on the Social
Security Administration’s Death Master File.
11. Personal identifying information provided by the customer is not consistent with
other personal identifying information provided by the customer. For example, there is a lack of
correlation between the SSN range and date of birth.
12. Personal identifying information provided is associated with known fraudulent
activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution or creditor.
For example:
a. The address on an application is the same as the address provided on a fraudulent
application; or
b. The phone number on an application is the same as the number provided on a
fraudulent application.

112

13. Personal identifying information provided is of a type commonly associated with
fraudulent activity as indicated by internal or third-party sources used by the financial institution
or creditor. For example:
a. The address on an application is fictitious, a mail drop, or a prison; or
b. The phone number is invalid, or is associated with a pager or answering service.
14. The SSN provided is the same as that submitted by other persons opening an account
or other customers.
15. The address or telephone number provided is the same as or similar to the address or
telephone number submitted by an unusually large number of other persons opening accounts or
by other customers.
16. The person opening the covered account or the customer fails to provide all required
personal identifying information on an application or in response to notification that the
application is incomplete.
17. Personal identifying information provided is not consistent with personal identifying
information that is on file with the financial institution or creditor.
18. For financial institutions and creditors that use challenge questions, the person
opening the covered account or the customer cannot provide authenticating information beyond
that which generally would be available from a wallet or consumer report.

113

Unusual Use of, or Suspicious Activity Related to, the Covered Account
19. Shortly following the notice of a change of address for a covered account, the
institution or creditor receives a request for a new, additional, or replacement means of accessing
the account or for the addition of an authorized user on the account.
20. A covered account is used in a manner that is not consistent with established patterns
of activity on the account. There is, for example:
a. Nonpayment when there is no history of late or missed payments;
b. A material increase in the use of available credit;
c. A material change in purchasing or spending patterns; or
d. A material change in electronic fund transfer patterns in connection with a deposit
account.
21. A covered account that has been inactive for a reasonably lengthy period of time is
used (taking into consideration the type of account, the expected pattern of usage and other
relevant factors).
22. Mail sent to the customer is returned repeatedly as undeliverable although
transactions continue to be conducted in connection with the customer’s covered account.
23. The financial institution or creditor is notified that the customer is not receiving
paper account statements.
24. The financial institution or creditor is notified of unauthorized charges or
transactions in connection with a customer’s covered account.

114

Notice from Customers, Victims of Identity Theft, Law Enforcement Authorities, or Other
Persons Regarding Possible Identity Theft in Connection With Covered Accounts Held by the
Financial Institution or Creditor
25. The financial institution or creditor is notified by a customer, a victim of identity
theft, a law enforcement authority, or any other person that it has opened a fraudulent account for
a person engaged in identity theft.

By the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
April 10, 2013

Melissa Jurgens,
Secretary of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
By the Securities and Exchange Commission.
April 10, 2013

Elizabeth M. Murphy,
Secretary of the Securities and Exchange Commission

115

