UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-12400

In the Matter of
PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP, LLC,
formerly known as PRUDENTIAL
SECURITIES, INC.,
Respondent.

)

)

)

)

)

)

)

)

)


PROPOSED PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION

I.

BACKGROUND

A. Description
1. This Plan of Distribution (“Plan” or “Distribution Plan”) proposes a
methodology for distributing to investors $270 million, and any interest or earnings
thereon, paid by Prudential Equity Group, LLC, formerly known as Prudential
Securities, Inc. (collectively, “PSI” or “Respondent”) in settlement of administrative
proceedings concerning findings of deceptive market timing practices in the trading of
mutual funds.
2. On August 28, 2006, Respondent consented to the entry of an Order by the
Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or “Commission”),1 without admitting or
denying the Order’s findings. The Order found, among other things, that beginning in at
least September 1999 and continuing through at least June 2003, former registered
representatives of PSI used deceptive trading practices to conceal their identities, and
those of their customers, to evade mutual funds’ prospectus limitations on market
timing.2 The registered representatives’ deceptive practices included the use of multiple
broker identifying numbers (known as Financial Advisor, or “FA” numbers) and
multiple customer accounts; the use of accounts coded as confidential in PSI’s systems;
and their use of “under the radar” trading to avoid notice by mutual funds.3 The Order
further found as early as the fourth quarter of 1999, several mutual fund companies
identified the registered representatives’ use of deceptive trading practices and notified
PSI of the registered representatives’ conduct.4

Although the firm issued policies and

procedures concerning market timing, these policies and procedures were ineffective in
curtailing the registered representatives’ fraud and were largely not enforced.5

The

Order also found that even in situations where PSI purportedly enforced any of these
1

Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions

Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Order”), Release No. 34-54371 

(August 28, 2006). 

2
Order at ¶ 4. 

3
Order at ¶ 2. 

4
Order at ¶ 3. 

5
Order at ¶ 5. 


-2­

policies, PSI senior officers undermined them by granting exceptions for PSI’s largest
producing registered representatives.6 Additionally, PSI repeatedly failed to deprive the
registered representatives of their inappropriate use of hundreds of FA numbers, even
though their use of multiple FA numbers was the primary means by which the registered
representatives carried out their fraud.7
3. The Order also called for the establishment of a distribution fund for these
monies and required Respondent to retain the services of an Independent Distribution
Consultant (“IDC”) acceptable to the staff of the Commission.8 The Order requires the
IDC to develop a proposed Distribution Plan for the distribution of the $270 million in
disgorgement, and any interest or earnings thereon, according to a methodology
developed in consultation with the staff of the Commission.9
4. In accordance with the terms of the Order,10 Respondent has provided all
information requested for its review, including providing access to its files, books,
records, and personnel. Also in accordance with the Order, Respondent is responsible
for all costs and expenses associated with the development and implementation of the
Distribution Plan, including the compensation of the IDC and of a tax administrator; the
payment of taxes; and the payment of any distribution or consulting service fees that
may be reasonably required by the IDC.11
5. This submission serves as the proposed Plan of Distribution as required by
the August 28, 2006 Order. The PSI Distribution Fund (“Fund”) was established to
provide for the ultimate distribution of the disgorgement funds to investors who were
harmed by the conduct described in the Order. This Fund has been deposited at the U.S.
Treasury Bureau of Public Debt ("Treasury") for investment in government obligations.
Other than interest from these investments, it is not anticipated that the Fund will receive

6

Order at ¶ 5.
Order at ¶ 5.
8
Order at ¶ 50.
9
Order at ¶ 50c.
10
Order at ¶ 50b.
11
Order at ¶ 50a.
7

-3­

additional funds. The Plan of Distribution for Fund monies is subject to approval by the
Commission.
B. Appointment of Independent Distribution Consultant
6. Paragraph 50 of the Order requires Respondent to retain the services of an
independent distribution consultant acceptable to the staff of the Commission in this
matter. Accordingly, Respondent has retained Francis E. McGovern, Esq., a professor
of law at Duke University, to be the Independent Distribution Consultant (“IDC”) for
this matter.12
7. As the IDC, Professor McGovern has been asked to develop a Distribution
Plan for the distribution of Fund monies according to a methodology developed in
consultation with Respondent and acceptable to the staff of the SEC. In completing this
engagement, Professor McGovern has been guided by the terms of the Order. Professor
McGovern has developed this Plan in consultation with other Fund Family IDCs
retained to effect distributions in other market timing cases, Commission staff,
Respondent, and COMPASS LEXECON, an economics consulting firm retained by him
in connection with this matter.
8. Under this Plan, Fund monies will be allocated to Eligible Mutual Funds13
according to a formula designed to capture the proportional dilution in such mutual
funds relative to the dilution in all Eligible Mutual Funds. In other words, the total
dilution ascribed to all Eligible Mutual Funds will be calculated, and, then, each Eligible
Mutual Fund will be allocated its percentage of such total dilution amount. Allocations
of Fund monies will be made from the $270 million disgorgement amount paid by
Respondent together with any interest or earnings thereon accrued by the Fund.

12

Professor McGovern is widely published on the topics of alternative dispute resolution and case 

settlement. Professor McGovern also has broad experience advising courts and parties on settlement

mechanisms and fund distribution. 

13
See Defined Terms, Sec. II at ¶ 9. 


-4­

II. DEFINED TERMS
9. This Distribution Plan makes use of a number of terms with specific
meanings and references. Following is a list of definitions for the specific terms used
herein.
“Approval Date” means the date on which the Commission issues an
administrative order approving this Distribution Plan.
“Commission” or “SEC” means the United States Securities and Exchange
Commission.
“Contemporaneous Accountholders” means shareholders of Eligible Mutual
Funds that held shares during all or part of the Relevant Period.
“Distributable Amount” means $270 million plus any earnings or interest thereon
earned on the foregoing through the Approval Date.
“Plan” means this Plan of Distribution as developed by the Independent
Distribution Consultant and approved by the Commission.
“Distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders” means the method of
distribution employed to distribute Fund monies to Contemporaneous
Accountholders of select Eligible Mutual Funds.
“Eligible Mutual Funds” means those mutual funds that may have been affected
by the conduct described in the Order during all or part of the Relevant Period and
are eligible to receive a payment of at least $1,000 from the Fund.
“Escrow Bank” means Deutsche Bank.
“Fund Family IDC” means the Independent Distribution Consultant retained by a
family of mutual funds to effect the distribution of the fund family’s market
timing distribution fund.
“IDC” or “Fund IDC” means Professor Francis E. McGovern, Esq., the
Independent Distribution Consultant retained by the Respondent pursuant to the
terms of the Order.
“LIFO” means last-in, first-out, an accounting convention used in this
Distribution Plan.
“Order” means the Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings, Making
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the

-5­

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 against Prudential Equity Group, LLC, formerly
known as Prudential Securities, Inc., dated August 28, 2006.
“Relevant Period” means September 1999 through at least June 2003, the period
of the conduct described in the Order.
“Respondent” or ”PSI” means Prudential Equity Group, LLC, formerly known as
Prudential Securities, Inc., individually or in the aggregate.
“Settlement Amount” means the $270 million paid by Respondent to the
Commission in connection with the Order in this matter.
“Tax Administrator” means Damasco & Associates LLP, a certified public
accounting firm, appointed by the Commission to administer taxes for the Fund in
this proceeding.
“Transaction Database” means the database provided by Respondent to the IDC
containing information regarding all mutual fund transactions effected by former
PSI registered representatives during the Relevant Period.
III. ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN
A. Appointment of Administrator for the Fund
10. The Commission’s Order requires that the IDC submit the Distribution Plan
“for the administration and distribution of disgorgement funds pursuant to Rules 1100­
1106 [17 C.F.R. §201.1100-1106] of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans.”14

Accordingly, the IDC has proposed the retention of Rust

Consulting, Inc., a services company well experienced in the distribution and
administration of market timing fair funds, to act as the Fund Administrator (“Fund
Administrator”).

The Respondent will pay all fees and costs associated with the

administration of the Plan of Distribution, including the fees of the Fund Administrator.
11. The Fund Administrator, working with the IDC, will be responsible for,
among other things: assisting in the administration of the Fund, obtaining accurate
mailing information for accountholders;15 preparing accountings; cooperating with the

14

Order at ¶ 50g.

The Fund Administrator will undertake accountholder identification and administrative support efforts 

only where distributions are made to Contemporaneous Accountholders.

15

-6­

tax administrator in providing the information necessary for income tax compliance;
distributing money from the Fund to accountholders in accordance with this Plan; and
setting up and staffing a call center to address accountholder questions or concerns
regarding the distribution.
12. While the distribution is being implemented, the Fund Administrator will
file an accounting during the first ten days of each calendar quarter.

The Fund

Administrator will submit a final accounting for approval by the Commission prior to
termination of the Fund and discharge of the Fund Administrator.
13. In lieu of bond, the Fund Administrator maintains and will continue to
maintain insurance until termination of the Fund. The current primary insurer, Illinois
Unions Ins. Co. (ACE USA), is a company which, as of its most recent renewal, was
rated (“A+ XV”) by A.M. Best. The Fund Administrator maintains and will continue to
maintain until termination of the Fund, errors and omissions coverage in the amount of
$10,000,000. It has a policy limit of $10,000,000 per occurrence and an overall limit of
$10,000,000 during the life of the policy. The Fund Administrator also maintains an
additional $10,000,000 in excess errors and omissions coverage, which is provided by
Lloyd's of London.

Lastly, the Fund Administrator maintains a crime policy in the

amount of $5,000,000 per occurrence, which provides protection against employee
dishonesty, forgery or fraudulent alteration of securities, and electronic and computer
crime exposures, which include losses due to transfer, payment or delivery of funds as a
result of fraudulent input, preparation or modification of computer instructions, data or
fraudulent electronic transmissions or communications. Under the Plan of Distribution,
at no time will there be funds under the custody of the Fund Administrator, and the Fund
Administrator will have only limited control over the funds. These policies have been
provided to the Commission staff for review and have been deemed "not unacceptable."
14. Because the (1) the Fund Administrator will have no custody, and only
limited control, of the Fund; (2) the Fund will be held by Treasury until immediately
before transmittal of checks or electronic transfers to eligible investors; (3) upon transfer
from Treasury, funds will be held in an escrow account, separate from Escrow Bank

-7­

assets, until presentation of a check or electronic transfer, at which time funds will be
transferred to a controlled distribution account; (4) presented checks or electronic
transfers will be subject to “positive pay” controls before honored by the Escrow Bank;
and (5) both the Escrow Bank and the Fund Administrator will maintain, throughout this
process, insurance and/or a financial institution bond that covers errors and omissions,
misfeasance, and fraud, the Plan proposes that the requirement that a bond be posted
pursuant to Rule 1105(c) be waived by the Commission for good cause shown.
B. Appointment of the Tax Administrator
15. The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates LLP as the Tax
Administrator (“Tax Administrator”) of the Fund.16 The IDC, Fund Administrator, and
Respondent will cooperate with the Tax Administrator in providing information
necessary to accomplish the income tax compliance, ruling, and advice work assigned to
the Tax Administrator by the Commission. The Tax Administrator shall be compensated
by the Respondent.
C.

Control of the Fund
16. Pursuant to the Order, on or about August 28, 2006, Respondent paid a total

of $270 million to the SEC. The Fund is currently deposited at the U.S. Treasury Bureau
of Public Debt.
17. The Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund (“QSF”) under Section
468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. §468B(g), and related regulations, 26
C.F.R. §§1.468B-l through 1.468B-5.

The assets of the Fund are subject to the

continuing jurisdiction and control of the Commission.
IV. DISTRIBUTION METHODOLOGY AND PROCEDURES
A. Objective of the Plan
18. The Order provides that the IDC shall develop a Distribution Plan for the
distribution of the $270 million in disgorgement, and any interest or earnings thereon,

16

See Order Appointing Tax Administrator, SEC Release No. 34-54470, September 19, 2006.

-8­

according to a methodology developed in consultation with and acceptable to the staff of
the Commission.17 Accordingly, this Plan is designed to allocate Fund monies among
those harmed by the conduct described in the Order during the Relevant Period. This
allocation will be based upon an analysis that will reflect an estimate of the
proportionate dilution in value of each Eligible Mutual Fund during the Relevant Period
relative to the dilution in all Eligible Mutual Funds during that period. For example, if
the total dilution calculated for all Eligible Mutual Funds during the Relevant Period is
$100, and the dilution calculated for a particular Eligible Mutual Fund during that period
is $10, then the Eligible Mutual Fund will be allocated 10% of the Distributable Amount
as its Fund payment.
19. This Plan is designed to compensate those harmed by the practices
described in the Order. While other Fund Family IDCs have access to detailed
information regarding the accountholders within their respective fund families, such
information is not similarly available to this IDC or the Respondent. Therefore, under
this Plan, in order to maximize the distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders,
where practicable and feasible, the IDC will use an existing Fund Family IDC or a
services company to obtain the data necessary to distribute Fund monies directly to
Contemporaneous Accountholders of select Eligible Mutual Funds. In many instances,
however, distributions to Contemporaneous Accountholders may not be practicable and
feasible, and in these cases, the IDC will allocate Fund monies directly to the asset base
of the Eligible Mutual Funds.
20. The IDC believes that the methodology described in this Plan is a fair and
reasonable way in which to allocate Fund monies to those Eligible Mutual Funds harmed
by the deceptive market timing practices, as are described more fully in the Order. The
realized profits method, as described more fully in Paragraphs 30-34 below, will be used
to allocate Fund monies to each Eligible Mutual Fund..

17

Order at ¶ 50.

-9­

B. Methodology Used to Develop Distribution Plan
Transaction Database

21. Respondent provided the IDC with a database containing information
regarding mutual fund transactions (the “Transaction Database”) effected by former PSI
registered representatives during the Relevant Period and executed by the Respondent.
The Transaction Database identifies for each transaction the customer’s account number;
account name; branch code; financial advisor, or “FA” number; the mutual fund traded;
date of trade; number of shares traded, and the price at which the trade was executed.
22. All data provided to the IDC and any analyses produced by the IDC are
strictly confidential and held exclusively by the IDC and those retained to assist the IDC.
Identifying Market Timers

23. The Order in this matter provides that former registered representatives of
Respondent used deceptive market timing practices to conceal their identities, and those
of their customers, to evade mutual funds’ prospectus limitations on market timing.18
The Order does not identify these registered representatives or their customers.
24. Because the Order does not identify any of the registered representatives
who engaged in the conduct described therein, it was determined that for purposes of this
Plan, a discrete group of former PSI registered representatives engaged in deceptive
market timing practices during the Relevant Period (collectively, the “Described Market
Timers”).
25. All customer accounts associated with the FA numbers assigned to the
Described Market Timers were identified (collectively, the “Described Customer
Accounts”).

18

Order at ¶ 2.

- 10 ­

26. Described Customer Accounts with a redemption or exchange of $10,000
or more of mutual fund shares in a given mutual fund family in any thirty-day period
following a purchase of at least $100,000 of mutual fund shares in the same fund family
were included in the dilution analysis underlying this Plan (collectively, the “Included
Accounts”). Overall, a total of approximately 1,200 customer accounts were identified,
and all transactions associated with these Included Accounts formed the basis of the
dilution analysis. During the Relevant Period, these Included Accounts were involved in
transactions with approximately 1,600 different mutual funds.
Estimating Dilution Losses
27. This Plan uses dilution to measure the harm caused by the trades of the
Included Accounts. Dilution is the difference in the wealth of shareholders in a mutual
fund with market timer trades compared to the same fund without these same trades. “In
other words, dilution is the amount of money necessary to return shareholders to where
they would have been but for the flows from market timers.”19
28. As previously indicated, the allocation of Fund monies to mutual funds is
based upon an estimate of the relative dilution in the value of the Eligible Mutual Funds.
The amount of dilution that results from market timing activity is directly related to how
a fund manager invests the influx of cash flows received from the market timers. A
precise estimate of dilution losses would require access to information about how
individual fund managers invested the cash received from individual market timers, i.e.,
whether the fund managers invested the market timers’ cash on the same day or held the
cash in reserve. Such information, however, is not available to the Respondent or to the
IDC. In this case, because such information cannot be obtained, it was determined after
careful review that the realized profits measure provides a fair and equitable method for
allocating Fund monies consistent with the guidelines set forth in the Order.
29. A dilution analysis was conducted in the aggregate for all trades of the
Included Accounts in order to allocate Fund monies to Eligible Mutual Funds. Due to

19

See Greene, Jason T. and Ciccotello, Conrad S., “Mutual Fund Dilution from Market Timing Trades”
(September 27, 2004).

- 11 ­

inadequacies inherent in the data, it was not economically practicable or feasible to
identify precisely which trades were deceptive market timing trades as described in the
Order.
Calculating Realized Profits
30. The implementation of the realized profits approach requires an adoption of
several rules and conventions in order to ensure uniform treatment of transaction data
and an accurate calculation of dilution under the Plan. As mentioned previously, all
transactions associated with the Included Accounts for the Relevant Period were
compiled and identified in the Transaction Database.
31. In order to calculate actual profits made by the Included Accounts, each sale
made by an Included Account for a particular fund was matched to a purchase by the
same account to create a “roundtrip” transaction. “Sells” were matched with “buys”
using the last-in, first-out (“LIFO”) accounting convention.

The LIFO convention

makes the assumption that sells are processed in chronological order. Therefore, each
sell was matched to the buy that immediately preceded it. One sell might have been
matched to multiple buys, and many sells could have been matched to one buy to adjust
for quantity differences. LIFO is generally accepted as a reasonable method and was
thereby adopted for this Plan.
32. After examining the roundtrip transactions and conducting additional
research, it was necessary to impose some basic limits to exclude certain market timer
trades from the profits analysis. Market timers profited by moving money in and out of
mutual funds quickly. The benefits of any market timing activity would be diluted over
an extended holding period. Due to these facts, it was practical to limit the number of
roundtrip market timer transactions included in the profits calculation, based upon the
length of the roundtrip. Therefore, the Plan included in the profits analysis only those
roundtrips that occurred within 30 days.
33. The profits of the Included Accounts must also reflect any applicable
dividends and capital gain distributions that accrued to these accounts. Therefore, in

- 12 ­

conducting the profit analysis, such dividends and distributions, if any, were added to the
profits received by these accounts during that roundtrip.
34. Profits on a roundtrip for an account were calculated as the difference
between the selling price and the purchase price multiplied by the number of shares
traded in each roundtrip, plus any applicable dividends and capital gain distributions
accrued during that roundtrip. The total dilution for each mutual fund was calculated by
aggregating the profits (and losses) earned for all roundtrips by the Included Accounts
for each mutual fund during the Relevant Period. If some accounts suffered losses on
roundtrips, the losses were netted against the profits earned on other roundtrips during
the Relevant Period. Profits of accounts were netted against losses of other accounts if
and only if the roundtrips were in the same mutual fund.
35. The estimated total dilution of Eligible Mutual Funds was less than the
amount available for distribution, and, therefore, a proportional gross up factor was
applied to the allocation to all Eligible Mutual Funds.
C. Implementation of the Distribution Plan
36. The process of calculating the distributions to be made and of actually
causing those distributions to occur will be implemented according to the steps outlined
herein.
37. As mentioned in the previous section, estimates of dilution were calculated
based on a realized profits approach, and payments were determined for each Eligible
Mutual Fund. Because there are approximately 900 Eligible Mutual Funds, and the size
of payments to the majority of these mutual funds is small relative to the number of
Contemporaneous Accountholders within each mutual fund, the IDC has concluded that
in many instances, distributions to such Contemporaneous Accountholders are not
practicable or feasible. Therefore, in those cases, Fund payments will be deposited
directly into each Eligible Mutual Fund’s asset base.
38. In certain instances, based on a number of factors, the IDC, in his
discretion, may determine that distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders of an

- 13 ­

Eligible Mutual Fund is practicable and feasible. These factors include, but are not
limited to, the existence of a Fund Family IDC, the size of the payment to a mutual fund;
the availability of Contemporaneous Accountholder data, the percentage of mutual fund
Contemporaneous Accountholders who would receive a payment, the time that it would
take to effect a distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders, and cost estimates
associated with a distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders.
39. Accordingly, the IDC will employ the following two distribution methods
in order to achieve a fair, equitable, reasonable, and timely means by which to distribute
Fund monies.
Distributions to the Asset Base of Eligible Mutual Funds
40. As mentioned above, for many of the contemplated distributions to Eligible
Mutual Funds, the IDC has concluded it is neither practicable nor feasible to effect
distributions to Contemporaneous Accountholders.

In these instances, the Eligible

Mutual Fund will receive its share of Fund monies, and these monies will be deposited
directly into the mutual fund’s asset base.
41. In order to implement this method of distribution, the fund family will be
notified that the allocated monies are designated solely for the fund, are to be deposited
into the fund’s asset base, and prior to deposit in the fund’s asset base are not to be used
directly for administrative or management fees. In addition, the fund family will be
required to certify that the money will be deposited into the mutual fund as intended. If
the Fund Administrator does not receive a certification from the fund family that the
Fund monies will be deposited into their Eligible Mutual Funds’ asset bases within the
deadline specified by the Fund Administrator, then these mutual funds will no longer be
considered Eligible Mutual Funds, and these Fund monies will be allocated to the
remaining Eligible Mutual Funds per the methodology in paragraph 18. The Fund
Administrator will keep records of each contact attempt for a fund family and each
response received, if any. These records will be provided to the Commission staff at
least 30 days before the scheduled distribution is to be made.

To reduce the

administrative costs of distribution, the minimum distribution from the Fund has been set

- 14 ­

at $1,000 for each Eligible Mutual Fund. Monies allocated to funds that fall below the
minimum threshold of $1,000 will be added back to the Distributable Amount. These
mutual funds are not considered Eligible Mutual Funds, and these monies will be
allocated to the Eligible Mutual Funds per the methodology outlined in Paragraph 18.
42. Redesignation.

If a fund family cannot be determined for a particular

Eligible Mutual Fund, then the fund ownership will be examined to determine eligibility
for distribution. If the mutual fund, for example, has merged with another mutual fund
or has been purchased by another entity, the entity that controls the mutual fund will
become the designated party. The controlling entity will be treated as if it had owned or
controlled the mutual fund at the time of the market timing activity. If a mutual fund no
longer exists, then neither the mutual fund nor the investors in such fund will be eligible
for compensation.

Monies allocated to such funds will be added back to the

Distributable Amount. These mutual funds will no longer be considered Eligible Mutual
Funds, and these monies will be allocated to the remaining Eligible Mutual Funds per
the methodology outlined in Paragraph 18.
43. The IDC or Fund Administrator shall cooperate with the Tax Administrator
to provide necessary Forms W-9 or W-8BEN or any other necessary forms to determine
withholding status, if any, and to accomplish any withholding required.
44. Once the Tax Administrator has completed verification of tax withholding
amounts and any additional requests for funds, the validated list of payees will be
submitted to the Commission staff, who will seek Commission approval for the
disbursement. After the issuance of the order directing disbursement, payments to
Eligible Mutual Funds under this distribution method will be completed within 30 days
from the order directing disbursement.
Distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders
45. In certain instances, as discussed above, distributions to Contemporaneous
Accountholders may be practicable and feasible. This may be accomplished through
either (a) cooperation with a mutual fund family’s assigned IDC, or (b) via direct

- 15 ­

distribution from the PSI Distribution Fund to Contemporaneous Accountholders in a
mutual fund.
Distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders Through an Existing Fund
Family IDC
46. Where a fund family has an assigned IDC related to market timing conduct,
and in the interest of minimizing the administrative costs associated with accountholder
distributions and the confusion associated with multiple distributions from different fair
funds, where appropriate and feasible, the IDC will consult with the Fund Family IDC to
determine whether distribution of PSI Distribution Fund monies to individual
accountholders in the Eligible Mutual Funds within the fund family is practicable and
feasible.
47. An examination will then be made to determine the extent of overlap
between the mutual funds, the relevant time periods, and dilution estimates among the
mutual funds covered by the Fund Family IDC and the PSI Distribution Fund. If there is
sufficient concurrence or overlap, and the Fund Family IDC is determined to be able to
accept and distribute applicable Fund monies at a reasonable cost and within a
reasonable time frame, then all of the Fund monies attributable to the same fund family
will be transferred to the Fund Family IDC for distribution to Contemporaneous
Accountholders within the fund family.
48. In cases where a sufficient concurrence or overlap exists for a smaller
subset of mutual funds, and the Fund Family IDC is able to direct monies to
Contemporaneous Accountholders within these specific mutual funds under this IDC’s
direction, then monies for these mutual funds will be transferred to the Fund Family IDC
for distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders.
49. A validated list of payments to existing Fund Family IDCs will be
submitted to the Commission, where possible, within 30 days of the Approval Date, but
no later than 60 days from the Approval Date. Payments will be made to Fund Family
IDCs within one week of receipt of Fund monies into the Escrow Bank.

- 16 ­

Distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders from the PSI Distribution
Fund using an Existing Fund Family IDC’s Allocation Methodology
50. If there exists sufficient concurrence or overlap, but the Fund Family IDC is
unable to distribute Fund monies to Contemporaneous Accountholders, the Fund Family
IDC will be asked to provide a list of the fund family’s fair fund/disgorgement fund
beneficiaries and associated payment amounts. If possible at a reasonable cost and
within a reasonable time frame, the PSI Distribution Fund payment to this fund family
will then be allocated by the IDC to the list of beneficiaries in the same proportion as the
Fund Family IDC’s allocation of funds. This allocation will be implemented by the IDC
for all funds covered by the Fund Family IDC or a smaller set of funds depending on
which mutual funds are covered by the Fund Family IDC’s plan and those covered by
the Fund.
51. In the event the IDC undertakes a Contemporaneous Accountholder
distribution in a Fund Family using the Fund Family IDC’s allocation methodology, as
described above, it is proposed that the IDC and the Respondents engage the fund
administrator previously approved for that fund family to perform the administrative
services set forth in Paragraphs 69 and 70 of the Plan and any ancillary, related services
to distribute Fund monies to Contemporaneous Accountholders in qualifying funds20
within that fund family. The previously approved fund administrator for the fund family
is hereby appointed and shall be entitled to all of the protections, rights and obligations
of a “Fund Administrator” as set forth in the SEC’s Rules on Fair Fund and
Disgorgement Plans. A validated list of payees (Contemporaneous Accountholders)
under this process, where possible, will be submitted to the Commission within 90 days
of the Approval Date, but no later than eight months after the Approval Date.
Distributions to Contemporaneous Accountholders will be completed within 30 days of
the Commission staff obtaining an order directing disbursement.

20

In certain instances, mutual funds within a fund family may be slated to receive payments too small to
warrant distributions to individual accountholders.

- 17 ­

Distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders from the PSI Fund using the
Plan’s Allocation Methodology
52. If the option to distribute Fund monies through a Fund Family IDC is not
available, then the IDC will determine whether the monies to be allocated to a fund
family are sufficient to justify distributions to Contemporaneous Accountholders within
the mutual fund family. If, after an evaluation of the factors listed in Paragraph 38, it is
determined that a distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders is feasible and
practicable, then the following series of steps is contemplated using the Fund
Administrator to distribute Fund monies to Contemporaneous Accountholders for
qualifying mutual funds within the fund family:
1.	 The Fund Administrator will contact the fund family to collect relevant
share ownership information for individual accounts during the Relevant
Period within each qualifying mutual fund slated to receive payment from
the Fund.21
2.	 Once the relevant data have been collected, the Fund Administrator will
load and verify the integrity of these data on their systems. Share
ownership data will then be provided to the IDC’s staff, and the IDC’s
staff will calculate the payment amounts for each of these investor
accounts. The Fund Administrator will then confirm the IDC’s
calculations by programming and implementing an allocation algorithm
specified by the IDC.
3.	 After payment amounts have been verified, the Fund Administrator will
compile updated address information for each investor account and
contract with a vendor to print and mail individual checks. Any returned
checks will be traced for updated contact information, reissued and
remailed.
4.	 In addition to the above efforts, the Fund Administrator will establish a
toll-free call center and web site to answer investor questions and for
miscellaneous administrative requests.

21

Please see section titled “Gathering Information for Distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders,”
Paragraphs 55-59, for further details on the data collection efforts required for distribution to individual
accounts.

- 18 ­

De Minimis Threshold for Distributions to Contemporaneous Accountholders
from the PSI Distribution Fund
53. A de minimis distribution amount for a Contemporaneous Accountholder
will be set at $10. In order to implement this de minimis distribution amount, the IDC
will apply a gross-up formula. The gross-up formula requires that the distributions to
Contemporaneous Accountholders be ranked in descending order of the size of the
contemplated distribution. The IDC will then calculate the total amount of distributions
below $10 (the “De minimis Amount”). Beginning with the largest distribution less than
$10 and proceeding through the list, the IDC will assign a distribution of $10 to each
Contemporaneous Accountholder until the De minimis Amount is depleted and then all
remaining Contemporaneous Accountholder accounts below $10 will be set to $0.
54. If for any reason, distribution of Fund monies cannot be made to
Contemporaneous Accountholders using a Fund Family IDC, or a validated list of
payees22 has not been submitted to Commission staff within a time period of eight
months after the Approval Date, the allocated amounts will be deposited to the asset base
of the Eligible Mutual Fund to which the allocation relates within nine months of the
Approval Date. All distributions will be on terms providing that checks not cashed
within ninety days after distribution shall be void, and the issuing financial institution
shall be instructed to void those checks.
Gathering Information for Distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders
55. A data set that contains all relevant Contemporaneous Accountholder data
will be compiled for each Eligible Mutual Fund slated for distribution to
Contemporaneous Accountholders by the Fund Administrator. The accountholders’
database will include account data for direct purchase accounts, transparent omnibus
accounts, opaque omnibus accounts, and retirement accounts. The database will also
incorporate information relating to known closed accounts, and will contain information
22

A validated list of individual account payees will be submitted to the Commission staff when a
distribution to Contemporaneous Accountholders is undertaken with the assistance of the Fund
Administrator.

- 19 ­

sufficient to allow for computation of distributions for all eligible accounts. With the
assistance of the relevant fund family or transfer agent, the database will be reviewed for
accuracy.
56. It is necessary to identify each type of investor that may have held a
relevant mutual fund account. Mutual fund investors purchase and sell shares through
several distribution channels. For purposes of this Plan, accountholders are identified by
the type of distribution channel used to buy and sell funds. Each accountholder is
treated separately in the Distribution Plan, as follows:
a. Direct Purchase Accountholders. Some mutual fund investors purchase
their shares directly from the fund via telephone or computer, and submit their
order information to the fund’s primary third party transfer agent or an
affiliated fund servicing company. The transfer agent acts as the master
record keeper for the fund, keeping track of shares sold and redeemed, along
with a record of the cash flowing into and out of the fund. For direct purchase
accounts, the identity of the accountholder may be known to the fund family.
b. Transparent Omnibus Accountholders. Other mutual fund investors
purchase their shares through intermediaries such as broker-dealers, banks,
and retirement plans. These financial intermediaries form a network to process
and record mutual fund transactions. Under an omnibus account arrangement,
the financial intermediary is the shareholder of record and holds securities on
behalf of the customer. The financial intermediary provides the transfer agent
with daily customer transaction data on the number of shares purchased and
sold by all customers on an aggregate basis. The omnibus account is
transparent if there is access to records that identify the actual beneficial
owners.
c. Opaque Omnibus Accountholders. An opaque omnibus account is identical
to that of a transparent omnibus arrangement, except that the fund family does
not have access to the records that identify the actual owners of the account.
The financial intermediary does not provide any specific customer
information, such as a Tax Identification Number, to the transfer agent in
connection with an opaque account.
d. Retirement Accountholders. A large portion of mutual fund investors
purchase their shares through tax-advantaged retirement plans, such as 401(k)

- 20 ­

accounts. About one-third of all mutual fund shares are held through
retirement accounts.23
Distribution to Omnibus Accounts
57. Under the IDC’s direction, all omnibus accounts will be categorized
according to whether they are opaque or transparent.24 The Fund Administrator will
identify all known opaque omnibus accounts with contemplated distributions of $1,000
or more.

The Fund Administrator will then approach all known opaque omnibus

intermediaries with contemplated distributions of $1,000 or more. The Fund
Administrator and the IDC will exercise commercially reasonable efforts to obtain from
those intermediaries all data necessary to allow the intermediary accounts to be treated
as though they are transparent accounts held at the fund family, or allow the omnibus
accountholder to distribute Fund monies per the options detailed under Paragraph 60,
sections b and c.
If an opaque omnibus accountholder elects to have the Fund Administrator
distribute Fund monies as outlined under Paragraph 60, section a, the Fund Administrator
will request the name, address, Tax Identification Number and account information for all
underlying shareholders of the omnibus account.

Omnibus accountholders might

consider this information commercially sensitive. The Fund Administrator shall maintain
in confidence Shareholder Identifying Information and any other information relating to
sub-accountholders obtained from any omnibus accountholder pursuant to this
Distribution Plan, and shall not share such information with Respondent. The Fund
Administrator, however, may share such information with its service providers or other
parties to the extent necessary to perform its duties under this Distribution Plan, and the
Fund Administrator shall require that such service providers and other parties maintain
such information in confidence.

23

See Investment Company Institute, Mutual Funds and the U.S. Retirement Market in 2002, 

Fundamentals, at 1, 2 (June 2003). 

24
As transparent omnibus accountholders provide information regarding the underlying shareholders of the 

omnibus account, the underlying shareholders will be treated as if they were Direct Purchase 

Accountholders, and additional outreach efforts to the omnibus accountholder may not be required. 


- 21 ­

58. The Respondent will reimburse opaque omnibus accountholders for actual
and commercially reasonable expenses incurred in gathering and providing the necessary
data, subject to the limitation that the amount of reimbursement will not exceed the
contemplated distribution. The Fund Administrator will maintain records of efforts
made to obtain the cooperation of opaque omnibus accountholders and of the responses
to these efforts.
59. No later than 150 days after Commission approval of the Plan, and after the
expenditure of reasonable efforts to obtain these data from opaque omnibus account
holders, where all determinations as to reasonableness will be made by the IDC, the data
obtained from the omnibus accountholders will be added to the database. Under the
IDC’s direction, the database will be reviewed for accuracy.
Distribution Options for Opaque Omnibus Accountholders
60. All omnibus accountholders who respond to the Fund Administrator will
receive a further communication that describes steps the recipient should take in light of
its status as an omnibus or collective accountholder. For omnibus accounts held at
registered broker-dealers that receive distributions of $1,000 or more, these options are:
a.	 Provision of all necessary data to the Fund Administrator so that the Fund
Administrator can apply an allocation methodology to the amount that has
already been set to be distributed to that account. Any omnibus
accountholder who elects this option must notify the Fund Administrator
within 30 days of the mailing of the letter describing these alternatives and
must provide the necessary data within 60 days. Under this option, the
Fund Administrator would perform the required calculations and
distribute the payments to the beneficial shareholders of the omnibus
account within 90 days of receipt of these data.
b.	 Provision of all necessary data to the Fund Administrator so that the Fund
Administrator can apply an allocation methodology to the amount that has
already been set to be distributed to that account. Any omnibus
accountholder who elects this option must notify the Fund Administrator
within 30 days of the mailing of the letter describing these alternatives and
must provide the necessary data within 60 days. Under this option, the
Fund Administrator would perform the required calculations, but the
omnibus accountholder would remain responsible for the actual
distribution.
The Fund Administrator will provide the omnibus
accountholder with a beneficiary payment list within 60 days of obtaining
- 22 ­

the necessary data. Omnibus accountholders electing this alternative must
certify in writing to the IDC that they will distribute the proceeds to
beneficiaries in accordance with this Plan within 30 days from receipt of
the beneficiary payment list, or they will not receive any proceeds.
c.	 The omnibus accountholder will apply an allocation methodology
specified by the IDC to the amount that has already been set to be
distributed to that account. Any omnibus accountholder who elects this
option must notify the Fund Administrator within 30 days of the mailing
of the letter describing these alternatives. Under this option, the omnibus
accountholder would perform the required calculations and would be
responsible for the actual distribution. The Fund Administrator will
provide the allocation methodology within 30 days of notification by the
omnibus accountholder. Omnibus accountholders electing this alternative
must certify in writing to the IDC that they will distribute the proceeds to
beneficial shareholders in accordance with this Plan within 90 days from
receipt of the allocation methodology, or they will not receive any Fund
proceeds.
In addition, omnibus accountholders that elect to distribute Fund monies as
detailed under options b or c above, must certify that any checks will state on their
face, "Void After 90 Days", and any proceeds from these checks or any
undistributed Fund monies will be returned by the omnibus accountholder by wire
or check to the Fund Administrator for deposit into the Distribution Fund escrow
account.
61. All other opaque omnibus accountholders receiving distributions less than
$1,000 will receive a distribution payment. The options for distribution are:
a.	 Application of any distribution technique that the recipient, in the
exercise of its reasonable discretion, deems to be consistent with its
fiduciary or other legal obligations.
b.	 Distribution of the proceeds to beneficiaries in the ratios that would be
determined by an allocation methodology specified by the IDC within 90
days of receipt of the allocation methodology. Accountholders who elect
this alternative will be provided with information sufficient to perform
the necessary calculations.
c.	 Return the check or the credit to the Fund Administrator or simply elect
not to cash the check.
62. If the Fund Administrator is unable to obtain within a reasonable time
information identifying shareholders from an opaque or transparent omnibus

- 23 ­

accountholder, the amount of Fund monies allocated to such omnibus accountholder
shall be deposited to the asset base of the Eligible Mutual Fund to which the distribution
relates subject to the restrictions set forth in paragraph 41. The Fund Administrator will
maintain records of each attempt to contact an omnibus accountholder, and each
response received, if any. These records will be provided to Commission staff at least
30 days before the scheduled distribution is to be made.
Distributions to Retirement Plans/Accounts
63. “Retirement Plan” as used in this Plan means an employee benefit plan, as
such plans are defined in section 3(3) of ERISA, 29 U.S.C. § 1002(3), which is not an
Individual Retirement Account (IRA), whether or not the plan is subject to Title I of
ERISA. Under this Plan, IRA retirement plans are treated as “transparent omnibus
accounts,” and distributions to IRAs will be made in accordance with Paragraphs 57
through 61 of this Plan.
64. Assets of Retirement Plans are held in trust by a trustee, and the trust is the
legal owner of the assets. This Plan requires the plan fiduciaries and intermediaries, as
defined in Department of Labor Field Assistance Bulletin No. 2006-01, April 19, 2006
(the “Field Assistance Bulletin”), of Retirement Plans to distribute the monies received
in accordance with their legal, fiduciary, and contractual obligations and consistent with
guidance issued by the Department of Labor, including, but not limited to, the Field
Assistance Bulletin within 90 days of receipt of the allocation from the Fund
65.

An intermediary to one or more Retirement Plans may allocate the

distribution it receives pursuant to this Plan among eligible Retirement Plans participating
in an omnibus account administered by such intermediary according to a method specified
by the IDC or on behalf of the IDC or according to the average share or dollar balances of
the Retirement Plans’ investment in Eligible Mutual Funds during the Relevant Period,
provided, however, that for the purposes of such allocation each Retirement Plan itself
(and not the individual plan participants) shall be treated as the beneficial owner.

- 24 ­

The fiduciary of a Retirement Plan receiving a distribution may distribute it
pursuant to one of the following four alternatives:
a.	 Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the distribution to current and
former participants in the Retirement Plan using the methodology
specified by the IDC. The IDC will make this methodology available to
Retirement Plan fiduciaries.
b.	 Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the distribution pro rata (based
on total account balance) among the accounts of all persons who are
currently participants in the Retirement Plan (whether or not they are
currently employees).
c.	 Retirement Plan fiduciaries may allocate the distribution per capita among
the accounts of all persons who are currently participants in the
Retirement Plan (whether or not they are currently employees).
d.	 To the extent that none of the three preceding alternatives is
administratively feasible because the costs of effecting the allocation
exceed the amount of the distribution, Retirement Plan fiduciaries may, to
the extent permitted by the Retirement Plan, use the distribution amount to
pay the reasonable expenses of administering the plan.
In view of, among other things, alternative distribution methodologies available to
eligible plan fiduciaries and intermediaries, such intermediaries will not be reimbursed
for the costs and expenses associated with the administration of the Distribution Plan.
D.

Validation, Approval and Process of Disbursement of Fund Monies
66. Payments from the Fund will occur in tranches, and for each tranche, in

order to distribute funds, the IDC will submit a validated list of payees and the payment
amounts to the assigned Commission staff, who will obtain authorization from the
Commission to disburse Fund monies pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6). For example, it is
anticipated that the first tranche of payments will be comprised of allocations to Eligible
Mutual Funds for deposit to the funds’ asset bases or payments to other Fund Family
IDCs for distribution to individual accountholders.

Additional tranches will be

payments to Contemporaneous Accountholders within Eligible Mutual Funds. These
payment lists will be submitted to the Commission staff on a rolling basis and after the
Approval Date, but without a date certain to avoid opportunities for arbitrage. The
payees and amounts in each list will be validated under the IDC’s direction. The
- 25 ­

validation will state that each payment list was compiled in accordance with the Plan and
provides all information necessary to make disbursement to each distributee. Unless
otherwise directed by the Commission, the Commission staff will obtain an order
directing disbursement that releases funds to the bank account established by the Fund
Administrator based upon each validated list and distributions will occur according to
timing determined by the Fund Administrator. The Fund Administrator will report to
Commission staff, within 30 days of each distribution mailing date, that the distribution
has been accomplished.
Check Cutting Process
67. All checks shall bear a stale date 90 days from the date of issue. All
distributions will be on terms providing that checks not cashed within 90 days after
distribution shall be void, and the Escrow Bank shall be instructed to stop payment on
those checks or otherwise assure that payment on such checks is prevented.

The

proceeds of stale and voided checks shall be deposited to the asset base of the Eligible
Mutual Fund to which the distribution relates.
Information Mailing to Accompany Payments
68. All payments shall be preceded or accompanied by a communication that
includes, as appropriate: (a) a statement characterizing the distribution; (b) a link to a
web site that will provide a description of the tax information reporting and other related
tax matters; (c) a statement that checks will be void after 90 days; and (d) the name of a
person to contact in the event of any questions regarding the distribution. Any such
information letter or other mailing to recipients characterizing their distributions shall be
submitted to the assigned Commission staff for review and approval.

Distribution

checks, on their face, or in the accompanying mailing will clearly indicate that the
money is being distributed from a Fund established by the SEC.
Support Services for Investors
69. The Fund Administrator will provide customer support and communications
programs which will become active at least by the time the first distribution occurs to
Contemporaneous Accountholders from the Fund. These services will include a toll-free

- 26 ­

call center for investors of funds who received individual account distributions, and a
website to the public. The Commission staff retains the right to review and approve any
material posted on the website.
Procedure for Handling Returned Checks or Electronic Transfers
70. Returned mail and checks will be handled as follows.
1.	 All mail returned by the United States Postal Service (“USPS”) for which
a new forwarding address has been provided by the USPS will be
immediately repackaged and sent to the new address. The database will
be updated with the new address. All mail returned by the USPS for the
first time, without a new forwarding address, will be coded as returned
mail, the check will be voided, and current address information forwarded
to a nationally recognized address search service for address research. If a
new address is found, that address will be updated to the master database
and a new check will be issued. This new check may be issued with a
stale date of 30 or 60 days after issuance. If no new address is found, the
original check will remain voided. Additional efforts to identify the
addresses of recipients will be conducted as is commercially reasonable in
the view of the IDC, where the costs of further research and the amount to
be distributed will be considered, subject to a presumption that the
additional costs of distribution will not exceed the amount to be
distributed.
2.	 All mail forwarded by the USPS from a second attempt mailing, for which
a new forwarding address has been provided by the USPS, will be
immediately repackaged and sent to that new address. The master
database will be updated with the new address.
3.	 All mail returned by the USPS from a second attempt mailing, without a
new forwarding address, will be coded as returned mail and the check will
be voided. Additional efforts to identify the addresses of recipients will be
conducted as is commercially reasonable in the view of the IDC, where
the costs of further research and the amount to be distributed will be
considered, subject to a presumption that the additional costs of
distribution will not exceed the amount to be distributed.
Under the IDC’s direction, this procedure for handling returned checks or
electronic transfers will be validated.

- 27 ­

No Claims-Made Process
71. This Fund is not being distributed according to a claims-made process, and
therefore the procedures for making and approving claims are not applicable.
Provision for Management and Distribution of Fund Monies
72. Upon approval of the Plan, the Fund Administrator shall establish an
account at the Escrow Bank, in the name of and bearing the Taxpayer Identification
Number of the QSF (the "QSF Account"). The Fund Administrator shall be the signer
on the QSF account, subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of the
Commission.
In order to distribute funds, the IDC will submit a validated list of payees and the
payment amounts to the assigned Commission staff, who will seek authorization from the
Commission to disburse pursuant to SEC Rule 1101(b)(6). The payees and amounts will
be validated under the IDC’s direction.

The validation will state that the list was

compiled in accordance with the Plan and provides all information necessary to make a
disbursement to each distributee. Unless otherwise directed by the Commission, the
Commission staff will seek an Order Directing Disbursement that releases funds to the
QSF Account based upon the validated list and representation by the Fund Administrator
that the checks or electronic transfers will be issued within the next 5 business days.
The Fund Administrator shall authorize the Escrow Bank to provide account
information to the Tax Administrator. The Fund Administrator shall use the assets and
earnings of the Fund to provide payments to Fund beneficiaries.
73. The Escrow Bank will hold Fund assets during the check-cashing period
and require use of a positive payment system. Once the Fund assets are transferred from
the Bureau of Public Debt to the Escrow Bank, they shall be placed in an escrow account
which shall invest and reinvest the escrow property in short-term U.S. Treasury
securities and obligations, all backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. Government;
provided however, that investments in short-term U.S. Treasury securities will not be
made through repurchase agreements or other derivative products. This shall be done
pursuant to the terms of an escrow agreement that must be acceptable to the staff of the
- 28 ­

Commission. When checks are presented for payment by recipients of the distribution,
and validated by the Fund Administrator, the exact amount necessary to pay such
presented checks shall be transferred from the escrow account into a distribution account
bearing the name and taxpayer identification number of the Fund, and validated
presented checks shall be paid from this distribution account. For any payment to be
made by wire instruction, the appropriate funds will be distributed by the Escrow Bank
directly to the payee in accordance with written instructions provided to the Escrow
Bank by the Fund Administrator. The Escrow Bank maintains a Financial Institutions
(FI) Bond, including errors and omissions coverage with a per occurrence and aggregate
limit of 210,000,000 Euro and a bankers blanket bond of 125,000,000 Euro. The primary
insurer is Chubb, a company which, as of its most recent renewal, was rated (“A+ XV”)
by A.M. Best. The Escrow Bank annually assesses the adequacy of its policy limits
through extensive analysis of historical loss data, exposure to loss and internal company
controls. The Escrow Bank limits are reviewed annually by the company’s Board of
Directors.
Termination and Provision for Disposition of Undistributed Funds
74. The Fair Fund shall be eligible for termination, and the Fund Administrator
shall be discharged, after all of the following have occurred: (1) a final accounting, in an
SEC standard accounting format provided by the staff, has been submitted by the Fund
Administrator for approval of, and has been approved by, the Commission, (2) all taxes,
fees and expenses have been paid, and (3) any amount remaining in the Fair Fund has
been received by the Commission.

When the Commission has approved the final

accounting, the staff shall seek an order from the Commission to approve the transfer of
any amount remaining in the Fair Fund to the U.S. Treasury, and shall arrange for the
termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the Fund Administrator.
E.

Amendment and Notices

Plan Amendments
75. The IDC and Fund Administrator shall take reasonable and appropriate
steps to distribute the Fair Fund according to the Plan. The IDC will inform the

- 29 ­

Commission staff of any changes needed in the Plan. Upon agreement with Commission
staff, the IDC may implement immaterial changes to the Plan to effectuate its general
purposes. If a change is deemed to be material by the Commission staff, Commission
approval is required prior to implementation by amending the Plan, which may be done
upon the motion of any party or the Fund Administrator or upon the Commission’s own
motion.
Notice of Proposed Plan and Opportunity for Comment
76. Notice of this Plan shall be published in the SEC Docket, on the
Commission website [http://www.sec.gov], on the website www.psidistributionfund.com,
and in such other publications as the Commission may require. Any person or entity
wishing to comment on the Plan must do so in writing by submitting their comments
within thirty days of the date of the notice (i) by sending a letter to the Office of the
Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E.,
Washington, D.C. 20549-1090; (ii) by using the Commission’s Internet comment form
(www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or (iii) by sending an e-mail to rule­
comments@sec.gov. Comments submitted by e-mail or via the Commission’s website
should include the Administrative Proceeding File Number (Admin. Proc. File No. 3­
12400) in the subject line.

Comments received will be available to the public.

Commenters should only submit information that they wish to make publicly available.
77. This Distribution Plan is subject to approval by the Commission, and the
Commission retains jurisdiction over the implementation of the Plan.

- 30 ­

