UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 


SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 61601 / February 26, 2010
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-11578

In the Matter of
CIHC, INC., CONSECO
SERVICES, LLC, and
CONSECO EQUITY SALES, INC.,

ORDER APPROVING PLAN,
APPOINTING A FUND
ADMINISTRATOR, AND
WAIVING BOND

Respondents.

On August 9, 2004, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) entered an
Order instituting settled administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings against subsidiaries of
public insurance company Conseco, Inc.: CIHC, Inc. (“CIHC”), Conseco Services, LLC
(“Conseco Services”), and Conseco Equity Sales, Inc. (“CES”) (together, “Respondents”) in this
matter (“Order”). In the Matter of CIHC, Inc., Conseco Services, LLC, and Conseco Equity
Sales, Inc., Admin. Proc. File No. 3-11578, Securities Act of 1933 Release No. 8455 (Aug. 9,
2004). In the Order, the Commission authorized the establishment of a Fair Fund, comprised of
$15,000,000 in disgorgement and penalties paid by Respondents, for distribution to investors
affected by certain market timing trading through Conseco variable annuity products. The Order
provided that the Fair Fund was to be distributed pursuant to a distribution plan developed by an
Independent Distribution Consultant. The Respondents retained Kormendi \ Gardner Partners,
Dr. Roger Kormendi, and Mr. Cyrus Gardner as the IDC, who have developed a proposed
distribution plan (the “Distribution Plan”) in consultation with the Division of Enforcement and
Respondents.
On January 19, 2010, the Commission published an “Amended Notice of Proposed Plan
of Distribution and Opportunity for Comment” (“Notice”) pursuant to Rule 1103 of the
Commission’s Rules of Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1103 (Exchange Act
Release No. 61209A). The Notice advised all interested parties that they may print a copy of the
Distribution Plan from the Commission’s public website, http://www.sec.gov, or by submitting a
written request to George S. Canellos, Regional Director, United States Securities and Exchange
Commission, 3 World Financial Center, Room 400, New York, NY 10281.

The Notice also advised all persons desiring to comment on the Distribution Plan that
they may submit their comments, in writing, no later than 30 days from the date of the Notice by
sending a letter to the Office of the Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549-1090; by using the Commission’s
Internet comment form (http://www.sec.gov/litigation.admin.shtml); or by sending an e-mail to
rule-comments@sec.gov. The Commission received no comments on the Distribution Plan and
no modification has been made to the Distribution Plan since its publication.
The Distribution Plan provides for distribution of the Fair Fund to provide compensation
for losses caused by Respondents’ permitting market timing in Conseco variable annuities
despite prospectus disclosures from December 1999 through October 2002. The Distribution
Plan describes the procedures to be used to identify the eligible investors that will receive
distributions. The Distribution Plan further describes the procedures to be used to calculate the
amounts to be paid to the eligible investors and to distribute those amounts to the eligible investors.
Eligible investors will not be required to make a claim or submit documentation to establish their
eligibility.
The Distribution Plan also proposes Rust Consulting, Inc. (“Rust”) as the Fund
Administrator and sets forth, among other things, procedures for distributing funds from the Fair
Fund to investors; procedures for the administration of the Fair Fund, including provisions for
filing tax returns; and a proposed timeframe for the termination of the Distribution Plan.
Rust has not posted the bond generally required of third parties under Fair Fund Rule
1105(c). Rather, the Plan incorporates several layers of protection for the Fair Fund. Among
other things, under the Plan: (1) the Fund Administrator will have no custody, and only limited
control, of the Fair Fund; (2) the Fair Fund will be held by the U.S. Treasury Bureau of Public
Debt until immediately before transmittal of checks or electronic transfers to eligible investors;
(3) upon transfer from the U.S. Treasury, funds will be held in an escrow account, separate from
bank assets, as defined in paragraph 2 of the Plan, until presentation of a check or electronic
transfer, at which time funds will be transferred to a controlled distribution account; (4)
presented checks or electronic transfers will be subject to “positive pay” controls before being
honored by the bank; and (5) both the bank and the Fund Administrator will maintain,
throughout this process, insurance and/or a financial institution bond that covers errors and
omissions, misfeasance and fraud.
The staff requests that the Commission approve the Distribution Plan, appoint Rust as the
Fund Administrator, and waive the bond requirement of the Fund Administrator for the good
cause shown in the Plan.
Accordingly, pursuant to Fair Fund Rule 1104, it is hereby ORDERED that the
Distribution Plan is approved.

2


It is hereby ORDERED, pursuant to Fair Fund Rules 1105(a) and (c), that Rust is
appointed as the Fund Administrator in accordance with the terms of the Distribution Plan and
that the bond requirement is waived for good cause shown.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

3


