UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

Before the 

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-12678
In the Matter of
Haidar Capital Management, LLC,
Haidar Capital Advisors, LLC and
Said N. Haidar,
Respondents.

)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)

FINAL PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
Overview
1. This Plan of Distribution ("Plan") proposes a methodology for distributing
disgorgement, civil penalties, and prejudgment interest paid by Haidar Capital
Management, LLC, Haidar Capital Advisors, LLC (collectively, "Haidar Advisors"), and
Said N. Haidar ("Haidar") (collectively, "Respondents") in settlement with the Securities
and Exchange Commission ("SEC" or "Commission") of administrative proceedings
involving. findings of deceptive market timing of certain mutual funds and annuities
("Affected Funds"). On July 6, 2007, Respondents consented to the entry of an order
instituting public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings, making findings,
imposing a cease-and-desist order, and imposing remedial sanctions pursuant to Section
SA of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 203(e) and (f) of the Investment Advisers Act
of 1940, and Sections 9(b) and (d) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 ("Order")

(Securities Act Rel. No. 8820). 1 The Order found, among other things, that between
April 2001 and September 2003, Haidar Advisors engaged in an illegal market timing
scheme.
2. The Order required that Respondents pay $4,580,000 in disgorgement, civil
penalties, and prejudgment interest.

The Order also established a Fair Fund under

Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 15 U.S.C. § 7246, and 17 C.F.R. §
201.1100 et seq. promulgated thereunder (Order, Paragraph IV.DJ.). The Order further
required that the Respondents retain the services of an "independent distribution
consultant not unacceptable to the staff of the Commission" to develop a plan "for the
distribution of the total disgorgement and penalty ordered in" the Order "and any interest
or earnings thereon, according to a methodology" acceptable to the staff of the
Commission. The Order also requires that the Respondents "cooperate fully with the
Independent Distribution Consultant, including [by] providing access to their files, books,
records, and personnel as reasonably requested for the review." Respondents agreed to,
and have paid, up to $50,000 of the compensation and expenses of the Independent
Distribution Consultant ("IDC"). Thereafter, the IDC's compensation or expenses shall
be paid first from the interest earned on the funds, and if the interest is not sufficient, then
from the corpus.
3. In accordance with the Order, the Respondents have retained Professor Gordon
Alexander, a professor of finance at the University of Minnesota and a former SEC
economist as the IDC.2 This submission constitutes the Plan required by the Order. The

1

See Order Instituting Proceedings at www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2007/33-8820.pdf.
Professor Alexander has received assistance from staff at Securities Litigation and Consulting Group,
Inc., an economics consulting firm based in Fairfax, Virginia. All work in this matter has been done under

2

2

Plan is subject to approval by the Commission, and the Commission retains jurisdiction
over the implementation ofthe Plan.
Administration of the Distribution Plan
4.

Pumose and Background. The Plan was developed pursuant to the Order and the

SEC Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1100, et seq.
("Rules"). The Fair Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund under Section 468B(g)
of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 468B(g), and related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §
1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5. The assets of the Fair Fund (that were paid by Respondents
on August 3, 2007) are subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of the

.
Commission, and the Commission shall retain control of the assets of the Fair Fund,
which is currently deposited at the United States Treasury Bureau of Public Debt for
investment in government obligations.

5. Fund Administrator. Rule 1105(a) provides that the Commission "shall have the
authority to appoint any person ... as administrator of a plan of disgorgement of a Fair
Fund and to delegate to that person responsibility for administering the plan." Rule
11 OS(a) also provides that an administrator may be removed at any time by order of the
Commission.

Rust Consulting, Inc. ("Rust") will act as the administrator ("Fund

Administrator") for the Plan. Rust has extensive experience in distributing SEC Fair
Funds. 3 The staff has no objection to the selection of Rust as Fund Administrator.

Professor Alexander's direction. In accordance with the Order, the Respondents have paid $50,000 for the
expenses ofthe IDC, Professor Alexander.
3
See, for example, In the Matter of Bank ofAmerica Capital Management, et al., Order Approving the
Distribution
Plan,
Administrative
Proceeding
File
No.
3-11818,
available
at
http://sec.gov/litigation/admin/2007/34-57048.pdf.

3

6. Bond. Rule 1105(c) requires that the Fund Administrator "obtain a bond in the
manner prescribed in 11 U.S.C. 322, in an amount to be approved by the Commission,"
but allows the Commission to ''waive posting of a bond for good cause shown." The
disbursements in this matter will be made by Treasury's Financial Management Services
("FMS") directly to the Affected Funds, with no handling of money by the Fund
Administrator. The payees, and the relative amounts to be paid by FMS to each, will be
reviewed and approved by the Commission prior to the disbursements. In summary, the
Fund Administrator will not have discretion regarding payment amounts made from the
Fair Fund. Accordingly, the bond for the Fund Administrator is waived.
Distribution Plan and Procedures
7.

Specification of Eligible Fair Fund Recipierits. Rule 1101(b)(2) provides that a

plan shall include specification "of categories of persons potentially eligible to receive
proceeds of the fund." This first requires a decision of whether the distribution should
occur (a) at the fund level, meaning that the Fair Funds would be contributed to the
Affected Funds in which the Respondents' conduct caused dilution in share value, with
the distribution resulting in an increase in the net asset value of those collective asset
vehicles; or (b) at the individual investor level, meaning that the distribution process
would attempt to "look through" the ownership structure at the mutual fund level to
identify the individual fund shareholders whose shares were diluted in value as a
consequence of the Respondents' transactions.
8. Fund Level. A fund level distribution is the appropriate mechanism for this
distribution. This conclusion is based on the observations that, among other factors:

4

a. The amounts likely to be paid to the large majority of individual fund
shareholders would be so small as to be de minimis;4 and
b. 	 Implementing an individual level distribution under the circumstances here
would result in significant expense and delay. Because any costs exceeding the
$50,000 contributed by the Respondents to prepare and fully implement the
Distribution Plan are to be paid out of the Fair Fund, it is highly probable that an
individual level distribution would significantly reduce the size of the Fair
Fund. A fund level distribution would, however, avoid the costs of collecting
large amounts of data from various sources and in different formats regarding
daily purchases and redemptions of funds by individuals. In addition, complex
and time-consuming implementation issues would be present in an individual
level distribution such as this where the trading took place at hundreds of funds
in numerous different fund complexes.

The Respondents and the Fund

Administrator in the instant proceedings lack the ability to compel disclosure by
the various funds (not to mention the various brokers, advisors and other
intermediaries) of the daily purchases and redemptions of funds by individuals
that would be essential to any determination of which shareholders of the funds
held fund shares, and how many shares they held, and how many shares were
outstanding, on the various days on which the Respondents engaged in
purchases and redemptions of shares of those same funds.

4

See, for example, In the Matter of Millenni11m Partners, et al., Proposed Plan of Distribution,
Administrative
Proceeding
File
No.
3-12116
and
3-11292,
available
at
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2007/34-55841-pdp.pdf and Order Approving Distribution Plan,
at
Appointing
an
Administrator,
and
Waiving
Bond,
available
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2007/34-56196.pdf.

5

9.

Methodology for Determining Distributions. The Fair Fund will be allocated in

three steps. First, the dilution suffered by each Affected Fund is estimated using the
next-day NAV method. This method calculates the dilution to a fund as the sum of the
profits earned by market timers on purchases plus the losses avoided on sales. This
method assumes that the timer inflows were fully invested at the end of the day after
being received and that the investments were fully liquidated at the end of the day after
being withdrawn.
9(a). The next-day NAV method has been shown to be a valid method of estimating
dilution from market timing 5 and has been used previously for fund-level allocations in
previous distributions.6 Based upon the specific facts in this matter, the IDC believes that
the next-day NAV method is a fair and reasonable approach. The next-day NAV method
was applied to a database of trades produced by the Respondents. The Respondents
represented that these are the trades referred to in the Order. After applying the next-day
NAV method to the trades, 577 mutual funds that were in the database of trades produced
by the Respondents were found to have experienced either positive or negative dilution.
9(b). Of the 577 funds for which the IDC had data, 169 were to experience negative
dilution from the activities of the market timers, and 408 were to experience positive
dilution. There were no other funds in the transaction database that were affected by the
market timing.

The second and third steps use the estimates of positive dilution

experienced by 408 of the 577 mutual funds (the Affected Funds) from the first step to
5

See Greene, J. and C.W. Hodges, 2002. "The Dilution Impact of Daily Fund Flows on Open-End Mutual
Funds," Journal of Financial Economics 65, 131-158, and Greene, J. and C. S. Ciccotello, 2006. "Mutual
Fund Dilution from Market Timing Trades," Journal ofInvestment Management 4, 42-66.
6
See, for example, In re Millennium; see infra fu. 4, In the Matter of Veras Capital Master Fund, et al.,
Plan
of Distribution,
Administrative
Proceeding
File
No.
3-12133,
available
at
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2006/34-54299-pdp.pdf, and Order Directing Disbursement of Fair
Fund, available at http:l/sec.gov/litigation/admin/2007/34-55363.pdf.

6

allocate the Fair Fund. Therefore, in the second step, the Fair Fund is allocated pro rata
to all funds with positive dilution since shareholders in the 169 funds with negative
dilution were not banned by the trades of the market timers.
9(c). In the second step, the amount in the Fair Fund, less reserve allowances for the
IDC and Fund Administrator ("Reserve Allowances") and allowances for the Tax
Administrator and truces ("Tax Allowances"), shall be allocated pro rata to all funds with
positive dilution based on the estimates obtained in the first step. This reserve calculation
shall be performed as close as possible to the expected date of distribution. The Reserve
Allowances and the Tax Allowances calculations shall be provided by the IDC, after
consultation with the Fund Administrator and Tax Administrator, to the staff for approval
by the Commission. The Tax Allowances shall be adequate to cover any anticipated tax
liability ofthe Fair Fund and related costs of tax compliance.
9(d).

Consistent with similar distribution plans, this Distribution Plan sets a de

minimis amount of $1,000. This avoids distributing money to funds in cases where the
cost of the distribution exceeds the amount distributed. Accordingly, the third step re­
allocates the Fair Fund (less the allowances described above) pro rata based on dilution
to all Affected Funds that experienced positive dilution and which had an allocation of at
least $1,000 in step two. Of the 408 mutual funds with positive dilution, 257 funds
("Eligible Foods") were found to have dilution of at least $1,000.
9(e). The IDC deems this method an acceptable method for allocating the Fair Fund
on the specific facts of this case. 7 Each Eligible Fund's share of the Fair Fund ("Fund
Distribution Amount") is intended to result in a payment that restores the impaired value
of the Eligible Fund. Some of this impaired value is susceptible to calculation, while
7

See the disbibution plan cited in footnote 4 for the IDC's basis for using this de minimis amount.

7

some of this impaired value is not.

The method of calculation is intended by the

Commission to fairly estimate the impaired value that each Eligible Fund has suffered
and make a payment in that amount. 8
10. Procedures for Locating and Notifying Responsible Persons for the Eligible
Funds. Rule l 10l(b)(3) provides that a plan shall include procedures "for providing
notice to [potential claimants--in this case, the Eligible Funds] of the existence of the
fund and their potential eligibility to receive proceeds of the fund." The Fund
Administrator will identify the entity with fiduciary responsibility for each Eligible Fund
or its successor entity. Within 30 days of the approval of the Distribution Plan, the Fund
Administrator will mail or send by other reasonable means each such fiduciary a notice
regarding the Commission's approval of the Distribution Plan and the procedure for
distribution.

The Fund Administrator will request from each fiduciary information

sufficient to accomplish the distribution, including the Tax Identification Number for the
Eligible Fund, payment address, contact information and/or wiring instructions.
Furthermore, each Eligible Fund will: (1) be notified that the Fund Distribution Amount
is designated solely for the Eligible Fund and is not to be used for administrative or
management fees, and (2) be required to certify in advance that the money will be
deposited into the Eligible Fund as intended ("Certification").
lO(a). If an Eligible Fund does not respond, including providing the Certification,
~thin

twenty-one days from the mailing date of the notice, the Fund Administrator shall

send a second notice by mail. For those Eligible Funds entitled to a Fund Distribution

8

An example of a fund level disb'ibution is the Plan of Disb'ibution in In the Matter of Veras Capital
Fund, et al., Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-12133, available at
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2006/34-54299-pdp.pdf. See also the disb'ibution plan cited in
footnote 4.

Master

8

Amount of $50,000 or greater that do not respond to the second notice within twenty-one
days of the notice's mailing date, the Fund Administrator shall make three attempts to
contact the Eligible Fund (or its successor) telephonically within the next seven days.
The Fund Administrator will keep records of each contact attempt for each Eligible Fund
and the response received, if any. These records will be provided to Commission staff at
least 30 days before the scheduled distribution is to be made.
11. No Claims-Made Process. This Fair Fund is not being distributed according to a
claims-made process, so the procedures for providing notice and for making and
approving claims are not applicable.
12. Procedures for the Receipt of Additional Funds.

Rule l lOl(b)(l) provides,

among other things, that a plan shall include procedures "for the receipt of additional
funds." The Fair Fund has been deposited at the Bureau of Public Debt for investment in
government obligations. Other than interest from these investments, it is not anticipated
that the Fair Fund will receive additional funds.
13. Checks or Electronic Transfers. The Fund Administrator may elect to make
payment of the Fund Distribution Amount to an Eligible Fund by check or electronic
transfer. Distribution checks or electronic transfers, on their face, or in the accompanying
mailing will clearly indicate that the money is being distributed from an SEC Fair Fund.
14. Validation and Approval of Disbursement of the Fair Fund. The Fair Fund
· disbursement to the Eligible Funds will be implemented through FMS, which will
electronically transfer funds through the Automated Clearing House ("ACH") or mail a
check to each payee. The Fair Fund disbursements will be made as follows:

9

a. 	 Staff will provide the Fund Administrator with appropriate proprietary software
for compiling the information necessary to be submitted to FMS.
b. 	 Approximately 30 days prior to the distribution date, the Fund Administrator
will compile the information available into an electronic file in the Agency
Input format and submit the file to the SEC Office of Financial Management to
ensure the file passes all system edits. Any errors or omissions of data will be
communicated back to the Fund Administrator promptly.

The Fund

Administrator will submit the final electronic file to the staff. However, the
initial distribution shall be made no later than 150 days following approval of
the Distribution Plan. Before submitting a validated payment file to the staff,
the Fund Administrator will coordinate with the Tax Administrator to determine
whether it is necessary to solicit an IRS Form W-9 (resident entities) or W-8
(non-resident entities) from each Eligible Fund.
c. 	 The Fund Administrator will validate the list of Eligible Funds and respective
Fund Distribution Amounts in the electronic file to the staff. The validation will
state that the list was complied in accordance with the Distribution Plan and
provides all information necessary to make a disbursement to each Eligible
Fund.

Unless otherwise directed by the Commission, the staff will obtain

authorization from the Commission to disburse pursuant to Rule 1101 (b)(6).
d. 	 When the electronic file and validation are approved and the order to disburse is
entered, the Commission, through its Office of Financial Management, will
transmit the electronic file to FMS for the transfer of funds pursuant to the

10

following FMS procedures. Within 48 hours of receipt by FMS, funds will be
transferred by the ACH or checks will be mailed.
e. 	 The Fund Administrator will repeat this process as many times as necessary to
complete distribution ofthe Fair Fund.

f. 	 The Fund Administrator also is responsible for accounting for all payments. In
the event that any distribution is in the form of a paper check in lieu of an
electronic transfer, each check will state on its face that it is valid for six
months. After seven months from the date on the distribution check, FMS shall
notify the Commission, which, in turn, will notify the Fund Administrator of all
uncashed checks. FMS will credit the SEC account for the Distribution Fund
for the amount of all uncashed checks.
15. Returned Checks Electronic Transfer Procedures.

FMS will notify the

Commission, which, in turn will notify the Fund Administrator of any returned items due
to non-delivery, insufficient addresses, or other deficiencies. The Fund Administrator is
responsible for researching and reconciling all errors that result in non-delivery and shall
submit a supplemental electronic file for payment ofthe returned items.
16. Termination of the Fair Fund. The Fair Fund shall be eligible for termination,
and the Fund Administrator shall be discharged, after all of the following have occurred:
(1) a final accounting, in an SEC standard accounting format provided by the staff, has

been submitted by the Fund Administrator and approved by the Commission, (2) all
taxes, fees, and expenses have been paid, and (3) any amount remaining in the Fair Fund
has been received by the Commission. When the Commission has approved the final
accounting, the staff shall seek an order from the Commission to approve the transfer of

11

any amount remaining in the Fair Fund to the U.S. Treasury, and shall arrange for the
termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the IDC and Fund Administrator.
17. Taxes.

The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates as the Tax

Administrator ("Tax Administrator") of the Fair Fund (Exchange Act Rel. No. 56909,
Dec. 5, 2007). The IDC, Fund Administrator, and Respondents will cooperate with the
Tax Administrator in providing information necessary to accomplish income tax
compliance, ruling and advice work assigned to the Tax Administrator by the
Commission. The Tax Administrator shall be compensated from the Tax Allowance.
The Fund Administrator and Bureau of Public Debt shall be authorized to provide
account information to the Tax Administrator.
18. Amendment.

The IDC and Fund Administrator shall take reasonable and

appropriate steps to distribute the Fair Fund according to the Plan. The IDC will inform
the staff of any changes needed in the Plan. Upon agreement with the staff, the IDC and
Fund Administrator may implement immaterial changes to the Plan to effectuate its
general purposes.

If a change is deemed to be material by the staff, Commission

approval is required prior to implementation by amending the Plan, which may be done
upon the motion of any party or the Fund Administrator or upon the Commission's own
motion.
19. Procedural Deadlines. For good cause shown, the staff may extend any of the
procedural deadlines set forth in this Plan.

12

