SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-76753; File No. SR-MSRB-2015-03)
December 23, 2015
Self-Regulatory Organizations; Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board; Order Granting
Approval of a Proposed Rule Change, as Modified by Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2,
Consisting of Proposed New Rule G-42, on Duties of Non-Solicitor Municipal Advisors, and
Proposed Amendments to Rule G-8, on Books and Records to be Made by Brokers, Dealers,
Municipal Securities Dealers, and Municipal Advisors
I.

Introduction
On April 24, 2015, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”) filed with the

Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC” or “Commission”), pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act” or “Act”) 1 and Rule 19b-4 thereunder,2 a
proposed rule change consisting of proposed new Rule G-42, on duties of non-solicitor
municipal advisors, and proposed amendments to Rule G-8, on books and records to be made by
brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers, and municipal advisors. The proposed rule change
was published for comment in the Federal Register on May 8, 2015.3 The Commission received
fifteen comment letters on the proposal. 4 On June 16, 2015, the MSRB granted an extension of

1

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

2

17 CFR 240.19b-4.

3

Exchange Act Release No. 74860 (May 4, 2015), 80 FR 26752 (May 8, 2015) (“Proposing
Release”). The comment period closed on May 29, 2015.

4

See Letters to Secretary, Commission, from Dustin McDonald, Director, Federal Liaison
Center, Government Finance Officers Association (“GFOA”), dated May 22, 2015; Leslie
M. Norwood, Managing Director and Associate General Counsel, Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”), dated May 28, 2015; Cristeena Naser, Vice
President, Center for Securities, Trust & Investments, American Bankers Association
(“ABA”), dated May 29, 2015; Terri Heaton, President, National Association of
Municipal Advisors (“NAMA”), dated May 29, 2015; Hill A. Feinberg, Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer and Michael Bartolotta, Vice Chairman, First Southwest
Company (“First Southwest”), dated May 29, 2015; Guy E. Yandel, EVP and Head of

time for the Commission to act on the filing until August 6, 2015. On August 6, 2015, the
Commission issued an order instituting proceedings (“OIP”) under Section 19(b)(2)(B) of the
Act5 to determine whether to approve or disapprove the proposed rule change. 6 On August 12,
2015, the MSRB responded to the comments 7 and filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule
change.8 The Commission published notice of Amendment No. 1 on August 25, 2015. 9 In
response to the OIP or Amendment No. 1, the Commission received 13 comment letters. 10 On
Public Finance, et al., George K. Baum & Company (“GKB”), dated May 29, 2015; David
T. Bellaire, Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Financial Services Institute
(“FSI”), dated May 29, 2015; Robert J. McCarthy, Director of Regulatory Policy, Wells
Fargo Advisors LLC, (“Wells Fargo”), dated May 29, 2015; Tamara K. Salmon, Associate
General Counsel, Investment Company Institute (“ICI”), dated May 29, 2015; W. David
Hemingway, Executive Vice President, Zions First National Bank (“Zions”), dated May
29, 2015; Lindsey K. Bell, Millar Jiles, LLP (“Millar Jiles”), dated May 29, 2015; Michael
Nicholas, Chief Executive Officer, Bond Dealers of America (“BDA”), dated May 29,
2015; Joy A. Howard, WM Financial Strategies (“WM Financial”), dated May 29, 2015;
Leo Karwejna, Managing Director, Chief Compliance Officer, The PFM Group (“PFM”),
dated May 29, 2015; and Dustin T. McDonald, Director, Federal Liaison Center, GFOA,
dated June 15, 2015. Staff from the Office of Municipal Securities discussed the proposed
rule change with representatives from SIFMA on May 21, 2015, representatives from
NAMA on June 3, 2015 and representatives from BDA on June 17, 2015.
5

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2)(B).

6

See Exchange Act Release No. 75628 (August 6, 2015), 80 FR 48355 (August 12, 2015).
The comment period closed on September 11, 2015.

7

See Letter from Michael L. Post, MSRB, to Secretary, SEC, dated August 12, 2015
(“August Response Letter”), available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/sr-msrb-201503/msrb201503-19.pdf.

8

See Letter from Michael L. Post, MSRB, to Secretary, SEC, dated August 12, 2015,
available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/sr-msrb-2015-03/msrb201503-20.pdf.

9

See Exchange Act Release No. 75737 (August 19, 2015), 80 FR 51645 (August 25, 2015).
The comment period closed on September 11, 2015.

10

See letters from Michael Nicholas, Chief Executive Officer, BDA, dated September 11,
2015 and November 4, 2015; John C. Melton, Sr., Executive Vice President, Coastal
Securities (“Coastal Securities”), dated September 11, 2015; Jeff White, Principal,
2

October 28, 2015, the MSRB granted an extension of time for the Commission to act on the
filing until January 3, 2016. On November 9, 2015, the MSRB filed Amendment No. 2 to the
proposed rule change. 11 The Commission published notice of Amendment No. 2 on November
17, 2015,12 and the Commission received seven comment letters in response to Amendment No.
2.13 On December 16, 2015, the MSRB submitted a response to the comments received on the
OIP, Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2. 14 This order approves the proposed rule change,
as modified by Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2.
Columbia Capital Management, LLC (“Columbia Capital”), dated September 10, 2015;
Joshua Cooperman, Cooperman Associates (“Cooperman”), dated September 9, 2015;
David T. Bellaire, Executive Vice President & General Counsel, FSI, dated September 11,
2015; Dustin McDonald, Director, Federal Liaison Center, GFOA, dated September 14,
2015; Tamara K. Salmon, Associate General Counsel, ICI, dated September 11, 2015;
Lindsey K. Bell, Millar Jiles, dated September 11, 2015; Terri Heaton, President, NAMA,
dated September 11, 2015; Leslie M. Norwood, Managing Director and Associate General
Counsel, SIFMA, dated September 11, 2015; Joy A. Howard, Principal, WM Financial,
dated September 11, 2015; and W. David Hemingway, Executive Vice President, Zions,
dated September 10, 2015. Staff from the Office of Municipal Securities discussed the
proposed rule change with representatives from BDA on October 5, 2015 and
representatives from SIFMA on October 15, 2015.
11

See Letter from Michael L. Post, MSRB, to Secretary, SEC, dated November 9, 2015,
available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/sr-msrb-2015-03/msrb201503-36.pdf.

12

See Exchange Act Release No. 76420 (November 10, 2015), 80 FR 71858 (November 17,
2015). The comment period closed on December 1, 2015.

13

See Letters to Secretary, Commission, from Michael Nicholas, Chief Executive Officer,
BDA, dated December 1, 2015; David T. Bellaire, Executive Vice President and General
Counsel, FSI, dated December 1, 2015; Dustin McDonald, Director, Federal Liaison
Center, GFOA, dated December 1, 2015; Tamara K. Salmon, Associate General Counsel,
ICI, dated December 1, 2015; Terri Heaton, President, NAMA, dated December 7, 2015;
Leslie M. Norwood, Managing Director and Associate General Counsel, SIFMA, dated
December 1, 2015; and Spencer Wright dated December 16, 2015.

14

See Letter to Secretary, Commission, from Michael L. Post, MSRB, dated December 16,
2015 (the “December Response Letter” and, together with the August Response Letter, the
“MSRB Response Letters”), available at http://www.sec.gov/comments/sr-msrb-201503/msrb201503-44.pdf.

3

II.

Description of the Proposed Rule Change
As described more fully in the Proposing Release, as modified by Amendment No. 1 and

Amendment No. 2, the MSRB is proposing to adopt new Rule G-42, on duties of non-solicitor
municipal advisors and proposed amendments to Rule G-8, on books and records to be made by
brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers, and municipal advisors (the “proposed rule
change”).
Proposed Rule G-42
Proposed Rule G-42 would establish the core standards of conduct and duties of municipal
advisors when engaging in municipal advisory activities, other than municipal advisory
solicitation activities (“municipal advisors”). In summary, the core provisions of Proposed Rule
G-42 would:


Establish certain standards of conduct consistent with the fiduciary duty owed by a
municipal advisor to its municipal entity clients, which includes a duty of care and of
loyalty;



Establish the standard of care owed by a municipal advisor to its obligated person
clients;



Require the full and fair disclosure, in writing, of all material conflicts of interest and
legal or disciplinary events that are material to a client’s evaluation of a municipal
advisor;



Require the documentation of the municipal advisory relationship, specifying certain
aspects of the relationship that must be included in the documentation;

4



Require that recommendations made by a municipal advisor are suitable for its clients,
or that it determine the suitability of recommendations made by third parties when
appropriate; and



Specifically prohibit a municipal advisor from engaging in certain activities, including,
in summary:
o receiving excessive compensation;
o delivering inaccurate invoices for fees or expenses;
o making false or misleading representations about the municipal advisor’s
resources, capacity or knowledge;
o participating in certain fee-splitting arrangements with underwriters;
o participating in any undisclosed fee-splitting arrangements with providers of
investments or services to a municipal entity or obligated person client of the
municipal advisor;
o making payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement to
perform municipal advisory activities, with limited exceptions; and
o entering into certain principal transactions with the municipal advisor’s
municipal entity clients, within limited exceptions.

In addition, the proposed rule change would define key terms used in Proposed Rule G-42
and provide supplementary material. The supplementary material would provide additional
guidance on the core concepts in the proposed rule, such as the duty of care, the duty of loyalty,
the impact of client action that is independent of or contrary to the advice of a municipal advisor,
suitability of recommendations and “Know Your Client” obligations; provide context for issues
such as the scope of an engagement, conflicts of interest disclosures, excessive compensation, and

5

the applicability of the proposed rule change to 529 college savings plans (“529 plans”) and other
municipal entities; provide guidance regarding the definition of “principal transaction;” recognize
the continued applicability of state and other laws regarding fiduciary and other duties owed by
municipal advisors; include information regarding requirements that must be met for a municipal
advisor to be relieved of certain provisions of Proposed Rule G-42 in instances when it
inadvertently engages in municipal advisory activities; and, finally, provide a narrow exception to
the proposed prohibition on certain principal transactions with municipal entity clients for
transactions in specified types of fixed income securities.
Standards of Conduct
Section (a) of Proposed Rule G-42 would establish the core standards of conduct and
duties applicable to municipal advisors. Subsection (a)(i) of Proposed Rule G-42 would provide
that each municipal advisor in the conduct of its municipal advisory activities for an obligated
person client is subject to a duty of care. Subsection (a)(ii) would provide that each municipal
advisor in the conduct of its municipal advisory activities for a municipal entity client is subject to
a fiduciary duty, which includes a duty of loyalty and a duty of care.
Proposed supplementary material would provide guidance on the duty of care and the duty
of loyalty. Paragraph .01 of the Supplementary Material would describe the duty of care to
require, without limitation, a municipal advisor to: (1) exercise due care in performing its
municipal advisory activities; (2) possess the degree of knowledge and expertise needed to
provide the municipal entity or obligated person client with informed advice; (3) make a
reasonable inquiry as to the facts that are relevant to a client’s determination as to whether to
proceed with a course of action or that form the basis for any advice provided to the client; and
(4) undertake a reasonable investigation to determine that the municipal advisor is not basing any

6

recommendation on materially inaccurate or incomplete information. The duty of care that would
be established in section (a) of Proposed Rule G-42 would also require the municipal advisor to
have a reasonable basis for: any advice provided to or on behalf of a client; any representations
made in a certificate that it signs that will be reasonably foreseeably relied upon by the client, any
other party involved in the municipal securities transaction or municipal financial product, or
investors in the municipal entity client’s securities or securities secured by payments from an
obligated person client; and, any information provided to the client or other parties involved in the
municipal securities transaction in connection with the preparation of an official statement for any
issue of municipal securities as to which the advisor is advising.
Paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material would describe the duty of loyalty to require,
without limitation, a municipal advisor, when engaging in municipal advisory activities for a
municipal entity, to deal honestly and with the utmost good faith with the client and act in the
client’s best interests without regard to the financial or other interests of the municipal advisor.
Paragraph .02 would also provide that the duty of loyalty would preclude a municipal advisor
from engaging in municipal advisory activities with a municipal entity client if it cannot manage
or mitigate its conflicts of interest in a manner that will permit it to act in the municipal entity’s
best interests.
Paragraph .03 of the Supplementary Material would specify that a municipal advisor is not
required to disengage from a municipal advisory relationship if a municipal entity client or an
obligated person client elects a course of action that is independent of or contrary to advice
provided by the municipal advisor.
Paragraph .04 of the Supplementary Material would specify that a municipal advisor could
limit the scope of the municipal advisory activities to be performed to certain specified activities

7

or services if requested or expressly consented to by the client, but could not alter the standards of
conduct or impose limitations on any of the duties prescribed by Proposed Rule G-42. Paragraph
.04 would provide that, if a municipal advisor engages in a course of conduct that is inconsistent
with the mutually agreed limitations to the scope of the engagement, it may result in negating the
effectiveness of the limitations.
Paragraph .08 of the Supplementary Material would state, as a general matter, that,
municipal advisors may be subject to fiduciary or other duties under state or other laws and
nothing in Proposed Rule G-42 would supersede any more restrictive provision of state or other
laws applicable to municipal advisory activities.
Disclosure of Conflicts of Interest and Other Information
Section (b) of Proposed Rule G-42 would require a municipal advisor to fully and fairly
disclose to its client in writing all material conflicts of interest, and to do so prior to or upon
engaging in municipal advisory activities. The provision would set forth a non-exhaustive list of
scenarios under which a material conflict of interest would arise or be deemed to exist and that
would require a municipal advisor to provide written disclosures to its client. Subsections
(b)(i)(A) through (E) would provide specific scenarios that give rise to conflicts of interest that
would be deemed to be material and require proper disclosure to a municipal advisor’s client.
Under the proposed rule change, a material conflict of interest would always include: any affiliate
of the municipal advisor that provides any advice, service or product to or on behalf of the client
that is directly related to the municipal advisory activities to be performed by the disclosing
municipal advisor; any payments made by the municipal advisor, directly or indirectly, to obtain
or retain an engagement to perform municipal advisory activities for the client; any payments
received by the municipal advisor from a third party to enlist the municipal advisor’s

8

recommendations to the client of its services, any municipal securities transaction or any
municipal financial product; any fee-splitting arrangements involving the municipal advisor and
any provider of investments or services to the client; and any conflicts of interest arising from
compensation for municipal advisory activities to be performed that is contingent on the size or
closing of any transaction as to which the municipal advisor is providing advice. Subsection
(b)(i)(F) would require municipal advisors to disclose any other actual or potential conflicts of
interest, of which the municipal advisor is aware after reasonable inquiry, that could reasonably
be anticipated to impair its ability to provide advice to or on behalf of its client in accordance with
the applicable standards of conduct established by section (a) of the proposed rule.
Under subsection (b)(i), if a municipal advisor were to conclude, based on the exercise of
reasonable diligence, that it had no known material conflicts of interest, the municipal advisor
would be required to provide a written statement to the client to that effect.
Subsection (b)(ii) would require disclosure of any legal or disciplinary event that would be
material to the client’s evaluation of the municipal advisor or the integrity of its management or
advisory personnel. A municipal advisor would be permitted to fulfill this disclosure obligation
by identifying the specific type of event and specifically referring the client to the relevant
portions of the municipal advisor’s most recent SEC Forms MA or MA-I15 filed with the
Commission, if the municipal advisor provides detailed information specifying where the client
could access such forms electronically.
Paragraph .05 of the Supplementary Material would provide that the required conflicts of
interest disclosures must be sufficiently detailed to inform the client of the nature, implications

15

See 17 CFR 249.1300 (SEC Form MA); 17 CFR 249.1310 (SEC Form MA-I).

9

and potential consequences of each conflict and must include an explanation of how the
municipal advisor addresses or intends to manage or mitigate each conflict. 16
Paragraph .07 of the Supplementary Material would provide that a municipal advisor that
inadvertently engages in municipal advisory activities but does not intend to continue the
municipal advisory activities or enter into a municipal advisory relationship17 would not be
required to comply with sections (b) and (c) of Proposed Rule G-42 (relating to disclosure of
conflicts of interest and documentation of the relationship), if the municipal advisor takes the
prescribed actions listed under paragraph .07 promptly after it discovers its provision of
inadvertent advice. The municipal advisor would be required to provide to the client a dated
document that would include: a disclaimer stating that the municipal advisor did not intend to
provide advice and that, effective immediately, the municipal advisor has ceased engaging in
municipal advisory activities with respect to that client in regard to all transactions and municipal
financial products as to which advice was inadvertently provided; a notification that the client
should be aware that the municipal advisor has not provided the disclosure of material conflicts of
16

The MSRB believes that this requirement is analogous to the requirement of Form ADV
(17 CFR 279.1) under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80b-1 et seq.) that
obligates an investment adviser to describe how it addresses certain conflicts of interest
with its clients. See, e.g., Form ADV, Part 2, Item 5.E.1 of Part 2A (requiring an
investment adviser to describe how it will address conflicts of interest that arise in regards
to fees and compensation it receives, including the investment adviser’s procedures for
disclosing the conflicts of interest with its client). See also Form ADV, Part 2A Items 6,
10, 11, 14 and 17.

17

Under subsection (f)(vi) of Proposed Rule G-42, the MSRB notes that a municipal
advisory relationship would be deemed to exist when a municipal advisor enters into an
agreement to engage in municipal advisory activities for a municipal entity or obligated
person, and would be deemed to have ended on the earlier of (i) the date on which the
municipal advisory relationship has terminated pursuant to the terms of the documentation
of the municipal advisory relationship required in section (c) of Proposed Rule G-42 or (ii)
the date on which the municipal advisor withdraws from the municipal advisory
relationship.

10

interest and other information required under section (b); an identification of all of the advice that
was inadvertently provided, based on a reasonable investigation; and a request that the municipal
entity or obligated person acknowledge receipt of the document. The municipal advisor also
would be required to conduct a review of its supervisory and compliance policies and procedures
to ensure that they are reasonably designed to prevent inadvertently providing advice to municipal
entities and obligated persons. The final sentence of paragraph .07 of the Supplementary Material
would also clarify that the satisfaction of the requirements of paragraph .07 would have no effect
on the applicability of any provisions of Proposed Rule G-42 other than sections (b) and (c), or
any other legal requirements applicable to municipal advisory activities.
Documentation of the Municipal Advisory Relationship
Section (c) of Proposed Rule G-42 would require each municipal advisor to evidence each
of its municipal advisory relationships by a writing, or writings created and delivered to the
municipal entity or obligated person client prior to, upon or promptly after the establishment of
the municipal advisory relationship. The documentation would be required to be dated and
include, at a minimum:18


the form and basis of direct or indirect compensation, if any, for the municipal
advisory activities to be performed, as provided in proposed subsection (c)(i);



the information required to be disclosed in proposed section (b), including the
disclosures of conflicts of interest, as provided in proposed subsection (c)(ii);



a description of the specific type of information regarding legal and disciplinary
events requested by the Commission on SEC Form MA and SEC Form MA-I, as

18

While no acknowledgement from the client of its receipt of the documentation would be
required, the MSRB notes that a municipal advisor must, as part of the duty of care it owes
its client, reasonably believe that the documentation was received by its client.
11

provided in proposed subsection (c)(iii), and detailed information specifying where
the client may electronically access the municipal advisor’s most recent Form MA
and each most recent Form MA-I filed with the Commission;19


the date of the last material change to the legal or disciplinary event disclosures on
any SEC Forms MA or MA-I filed with the Commission by the municipal advisor
and a brief explanation of the basis for the materiality of the change or addition, as
provided in proposed subsection (c)(iv);



the scope of the municipal advisory activities to be performed and any limitations
on the scope of the engagement, as provided in proposed subsection (c)(v);



the date, triggering event, or means for the termination of the municipal advisory
relationship, or, if none, a statement that there is none, as provided in proposed
subsection (c)(vi); and



any terms relating to withdrawal from the municipal advisory relationship, as
provided in proposed subsection (c)(vii).

Paragraph .06 of the Supplementary Material would require municipal advisors to
promptly amend or supplement the writing(s) required by section (c) during the term of the
municipal advisory relationship as necessary to reflect any material changes or additions in the
required information. Paragraph .06 would also provide that a municipal advisor would not be
required to provide the disclosure of conflicts of interest and other information required under
proposed section (c)(ii) if the municipal advisor previously fully complied with the requirements
of proposed section (b) to disclose such information and proposed subsection (c)(ii) would not
19

The MSRB notes that compliance with this requirement could be achieved in the same
manner, and (so long as done upon or prior to engaging in municipal advisory activities
for the client) concurrently with providing to the client the information required under
proposed subsection (b)(ii).
12

require the disclosure of any materially different information than that previously disclosed to the
client.
Recommendations and Review of Recommendations of Other Parties
Section (d) of Proposed Rule G-42 would provide that a municipal advisor must not
recommend that its client enter into any municipal securities transaction or municipal financial
product unless the municipal advisor has a reasonable basis to believe, based on the information
obtained through the reasonable diligence of the municipal advisor, that the recommended
transaction or product is suitable for the client. Proposed section (d) also contemplates that a
municipal advisor may be requested by the client to review and determine the suitability of a
recommendation made by a third party to the client. If a client were to request this type of review,
and such review were within the scope of the engagement, the municipal advisor’s determination
regarding the suitability of the third-party’s recommendation regarding a municipal securities
transaction or municipal financial product would be subject to the same reasonable diligence
standard -- requiring the municipal advisor to obtain relevant information through the exercise of
reasonable diligence.
As to both types of review, the municipal advisor would be required under proposed
section (d) to inform its municipal entity or obligated person client of its evaluation of the
material risks, potential benefits, structure and other characteristics of the recommended
municipal securities transaction or municipal financial product; the basis upon which the advisor
reasonably believes the recommended transaction or product is, or (as may be applicable in the
case of a review of a recommendation) is not, suitable for the client; and whether the municipal
advisor has investigated or considered other reasonably feasible alternatives to the recommended

13

municipal securities transaction or municipal financial product that might also or alternatively
serve the client’s objectives.
Paragraph .09 of the Supplementary Material would provide guidance related to a
municipal advisor’s suitability obligations. Under this provision, a municipal advisor’s
determination of whether a municipal securities transaction or municipal financial product is
suitable for its client must be based on numerous factors, as applicable to the particular type of
client, including, but not limited to: the client’s financial situation and needs, objectives, tax
status, risk tolerance, liquidity needs, experience with municipal securities transactions or
municipal financial products generally or of the type and complexity being recommended,
financial capacity to withstand changes in market conditions during the term of the municipal
financial product or the period that municipal securities to be issued are reasonably expected to be
outstanding, and any other material information known by the municipal advisor about the client
and the municipal securities transaction or municipal financial product, after the municipal
advisor has conducted a reasonable inquiry.
In connection with a municipal advisor’s obligation to determine the suitability of a
municipal securities transaction or a municipal financial product for a client, which should take
into account its knowledge of the client, paragraph .10 of the Supplementary Material would
require a municipal advisor to know its client. The obligation to know the client would require a
municipal advisor to use reasonable diligence to know and retain essential facts concerning the
client and the authority of each person acting on behalf of the client, and is similar to
requirements in other regulatory regimes. 20 The facts “essential” to knowing one’s client would
20

The MSRB notes that similar requirements apply to brokers and dealers under FINRA
Rule 2090 (Know Your Customer) and swap dealers under Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (“CFTC”) Rule 402(b) (General Provisions: Know Your Counterparty), 17
14

include those required to effectively service the municipal advisory relationship with the client;
act in accordance with any special directions from the client; understand the authority of each
person acting on behalf of the client; and comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations.
Specified Prohibitions
Subsection (e)(i)(A) would prohibit a municipal advisor from receiving compensation
from its client that is excessive in relation to the municipal advisory activities actually performed
for the client. Paragraph .11 of the Supplementary Material would provide additional guidance on
how compensation would be determined to be excessive. Included in paragraph .11 are several
factors that would be considered when evaluating the reasonableness of a municipal advisor’s
compensation relative to the nature of the municipal advisory activities performed, including, but
not limited to: the municipal advisor’s expertise, the complexity of the municipal securities
transaction or municipal financial product, whether the fee is contingent upon the closing of the
municipal securities transaction or municipal financial product, the length of time spent on the
engagement and whether the municipal advisor is paying any other relevant costs related to the
municipal securities transaction or municipal financial product.
Subsection (e)(i)(B) would prohibit municipal advisors from delivering an invoice for fees
or expenses for municipal advisory activities that is materially inaccurate in its reflection of the
activities actually performed or the personnel that actually performed those activities.

CFR 23.402(b), found in CFTC Rules, Ch. I, Pt. 23, Subpt. H (Business Conduct
Standards for Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants Dealing with Counterparties,
including Special Entities) (17 CFR 23.400 et seq.). Notably, the CFTC’s rule applies to
dealings with special entity clients, defined to include states, state agencies, cities,
counties, municipalities, other political subdivisions of a State, or any instrumentality,
department, or a corporation of or established by a State or political subdivision of a State.
See CFTC Rule 401(c) (defining “special entity”) (17 CFR 23.401(c)).

15

Subsection (e)(i)(C) would prohibit a municipal advisor from making any representation
or submitting any information that the municipal advisor knows or should know is either
materially false or materially misleading due to the omission of a material fact, about its capacity,
resources or knowledge in response to requests for proposals or in oral presentations to a client or
prospective client for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement to perform municipal
advisory activities.
Subsection (e)(i)(D) would prohibit municipal advisors from making or participating in
two types of fee-splitting arrangements: (1) any fee-splitting arrangement with an underwriter on
any municipal securities transaction as to which the municipal advisor has provided or is
providing advice; and (2) any undisclosed fee-splitting arrangement with providers of investments
or services to a municipal entity or obligated person client of the municipal advisor.
Subsection (e)(i)(E) would, generally, prohibit a municipal advisor from making payments
for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement to perform municipal advisory activities.
However, the provision contains three exceptions. The prohibition would not apply to: (1)
payments to an affiliate of the municipal advisor for a direct or indirect communication with a
municipal entity or obligated person on behalf of the municipal advisor where such
communication is made for the purpose of obtaining or retaining an engagement to perform
municipal advisory activities; (2) reasonable fees paid to another municipal advisor registered as
such with the Commission and MSRB for making such a communication as described in
subsection (e)(i)(E)(1); and (3) payments that are permissible “normal business dealings” as
described in MSRB Rule G-20.

16

Principal Transactions
Subsection (e)(ii) of Proposed Rule G-42 would, subject to the exception provided in
paragraph .14 of the Supplementary Material, prohibit a municipal advisor to a municipal entity,
and any affiliate of such municipal advisor, from engaging with the municipal entity client in a
principal transaction that is the same, or directly related to the, issue of municipal securities or
municipal financial product as to which the municipal advisor is providing or has provided advice
to the municipal entity client. The ban on principal transactions would apply only with respect to
clients that are municipal entities. The ban would not apply to principal transactions between a
municipal advisor (or an affiliate of the municipal advisor) and the municipal advisor’s obligated
person clients. Although such transactions would not be prohibited, the MSRB notes that all
municipal advisors, including those engaging in municipal advisory activities for obligated person
clients, are currently subject to the MSRB’s fundamental fair-practice rule, Rule G-17.
Paragraph .08 of the Supplementary Material would provide an exception to the ban on
principal transactions in subsection (e)(ii) in order to avoid a possible conflict with existing
MSRB Rule G-23, on activities of financial advisors. Specifically, the ban in subsection (e)(ii)
would not apply to an acquisition as principal, either alone or as a participant in a syndicate or
other similar account formed for the purpose of purchasing, directly or indirectly, from an issuer
all or any portion of an issuance of municipal securities on the basis that the municipal advisor
provided advice as to the issuance, because such a transaction is the type of transaction that is
addressed, and, in certain circumstances, prohibited by Rule G-23.
For purposes of the prohibition in proposed subsection (e)(ii), subsection (f)(ix) would
define the term “principal transaction” to mean “when acting as principal for one’s own account, a
sale to or a purchase from the municipal entity client of any security or entrance into any

17

derivative, guaranteed investment contract, or other similar financial product with the municipal
entity client.” Further, paragraph .13 of the Supplementary Material would clarify that the term
“other similar financial product,” as used in subsection (f)(ix), would include a bank loan, but
only if it is in an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000 or more and is economically
equivalent to the purchase of one or more municipal securities.
Paragraph .14 of the Supplementary Material would provide an exception (the
“Exception”) to the ban on principal transactions for transactions in specified fixed income
securities. As provided in proposed section (a) of paragraph .14 of the Supplementary Material, a
principal transaction could be excepted from the specified prohibition only if the municipal
advisor also is a broker-dealer registered under Section 15 of the Exchange Act,21 and each
account for which the municipal advisor would be relying on the Exception is a brokerage
account subject to the Exchange Act,22 the rules thereunder, and the rules of the self-regulatory
organizations(s) of which the broker-dealer is a member. In addition, the municipal advisor could
not exercise investment discretion (as defined in Section 3(a)(35) of the Exchange Act) 23 with
respect to the account, unless granted by the municipal entity client on a temporary or limited
basis.24
Under proposed section (b) of paragraph .14 of the Supplementary Material, neither the
municipal advisor nor any affiliate of the municipal advisor may be providing, or have provided,
advice to the municipal entity client as to an issue of municipal securities or a municipal financial
21

15 U.S.C. 78o.

22

15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.

23

15 U.S.C. 78(c)(a)(35).

24

The MSRB notes that the proposed requirements are similar to those found in Advisers
Act Rule 206(3)-T(a)(7) and (1), respectively. 17 CFR 275.206(3)-3T(a)(7) and (1).
18

product that is directly related to the principal transaction, except advice as to another principal
transaction that also meets all the other requirements of proposed paragraph .14.
Proposed section (c) of paragraph .14 of the Supplementary Material would limit a
municipal advisor’s principal transactions under the Exception to sales to or purchases from a
municipal entity client of any U.S. Treasury security, agency debt security or corporate debt
security. In addition, the proposed Exception would not be available for transactions involving
municipal escrow investments as defined in Exchange Act Rule 15Ba1-1(h)25 because the MSRB
believes that this is an area of heightened risk where, historically, significant abuses have
occurred. The terms “U.S. Treasury security,” “agency debt security” and “corporate debt
security,” and related terms, “agency,” “government-sponsored enterprise,” “money market
instrument” and “securitized product” would be defined for purposes of proposed paragraphs .14
and .15 of the Supplementary Material in new proposed paragraph .15 of the Supplementary
Material.
To comply with proposed section (d) of paragraph .14 of the Supplementary Material, a
municipal advisor would have two options. Under the first option, which is set forth in proposed
subsection (d)(1) of paragraph .14, a municipal advisor would be required, on a transaction-bytransaction basis, to disclose to the municipal entity client in writing before the completion of the
principal transaction the capacity in which the municipal advisor is acting and obtain the consent
of the client to such transaction. Consent would mean informed consent, and in order to make
informed consent, the municipal advisor, consistent with its fiduciary duty, would be required to
disclose specified information, including the price and other terms of the transaction, as well as

25

17 CFR 240.15Ba1-1(h).

19

the capacity in which the municipal advisor would be acting.26 “Before completion” would mean
either prior to execution of the transaction, or after execution but prior to the settlement of the
transaction.27
Alternatively, a municipal advisor could comply with proposed subsection (d)(2) of
paragraph .14 by meeting six requirements, as set forth in proposed paragraphs (d)(2)(A) through
(F) of paragraph .14 and summarized below. First, under proposed paragraph (d)(2)(A), neither
the municipal advisor nor any of its affiliates could be the issuer, or the underwriter (as defined in
Exchange Act Rule 15c2-12(f)(8)),28 of a security that is the subject of the principal transaction.
Second, under proposed paragraph (d)(2)(B), the municipal advisor would be required to obtain
from the municipal entity client an executed written, revocable consent that would prospectively
authorize the municipal advisor directly or indirectly to act as principal for its own account in
selling a security to or purchasing a security from the municipal entity client, so long as such
written consent were obtained after written disclosure to the municipal entity client explaining: (i)
the circumstances under which the municipal advisor directly or indirectly may engage in
principal transactions; (ii) the nature and significance of conflicts with the municipal entity
client’s interests as a result of the transactions; and (iii) how the municipal advisor addresses
those conflicts.
Third, under proposed paragraph (d)(2)(C), the municipal advisor, prior to the execution
of each principal transaction, would be required to: (i) inform the municipal entity client, orally or
26

See Amendment No. 2.

27

These requirements are substantially similar to long-standing interpretive guidance
regarding Advisers Act Section 206(3). 15 U.S.C. 80b-6(3).

28

17 CFR 240.15c2-12(f)(8).

20

in writing, of the capacity in which it may act with respect to such transaction and (ii) obtain
consent from the municipal entity client, orally or in writing, to act as principal for its own
account with respect to such transaction.
Fourth, under proposed paragraph (d)(2)(D), a municipal advisor would be required to
send a written confirmation at or before completion of each principal transaction that includes the
information required by 17 CFR 240.10b-10 or MSRB Rule G-15, and a conspicuous, plain
English statement informing the municipal entity client that the municipal advisor: (i) disclosed to
the client prior to the execution of the transaction that the municipal advisor may be acting in a
principal capacity in connection with the transaction and the client authorized the transaction and
(ii) sold the security to, or bought the security from, the client for its own account.
Fifth, under proposed paragraph (d)(2)(E), a municipal advisor would be required to send
its municipal entity client, no less frequently than annually, written disclosure containing a list of
all transactions that were executed in the client’s account in reliance upon the Exception, and the
date and price of the transactions.
Sixth, under proposed paragraph (d)(2)(F), each written disclosure would be required to
include a conspicuous, plain English statement regarding the ability of the municipal entity client
to revoke the prospective written consent to principal transactions without penalty at any time by
written notice.
A municipal advisor’s use and compliance with the requirements of the Exception would
not be construed as relieving it in any way from acting in the best interests of its municipal entity
client nor from any obligation that may be imposed by other applicable provisions of the federal
securities laws and state law.

21

Definitions
Section (f) of Proposed Rule G-42 would provide definitions of the terms “affiliate of the
municipal advisor,” “municipal advisory relationship,” “official statement,” and “principal
transaction.” Further, for several terms in Proposed Rule G-42 that have been previously defined
by federal statute or SEC rules, proposed section (f) would, for purposes of Proposed Rule G-42,
adopt the same meanings. These terms would include “advice;” “municipal advisor;” “municipal
advisory activities;” “municipal entity;” and “obligated person.”
Applicability of Proposed Rule G-42 to 529 College Savings Plans and Other Municipal
Fund Securities
Paragraph .12 of the Supplementary Material emphasizes the proposed rule’s application
to municipal advisors whose municipal advisory clients are sponsors or trustees of municipal fund
securities.
Proposed Amendments to Rule G-8
The proposed amendments to Rule G-8 would require each municipal advisor to make and
keep a copy of any document created by the municipal advisor that was material to its review of a
recommendation by another party or that memorializes its basis for any determination as to
suitability.
III.

Summary of Comments Received and the MSRB’s Response
As noted previously, the Commission received 15 comment letters in response to the

Proposing Release, 13 comment letters in response to the OIP or Amendment No. 1 and seven
comment letters in response to Amendment No. 2. 29 The MSRB responded to the comment

29

See supra notes 4, 10 and 13.

22

letters received on the Proposing Release in its August Response Letter,30 and the MSRB
responded to the comment letters received on the OIP, Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2
in its December Response Letter.31
A. Standards of Conduct – Scope of Duties
In response to the Proposing Release, SIFMA stated that the addition of “without
limitation” in Proposed Rule G-42(a)(ii) raises significant and unnecessary ambiguities, as a
fiduciary duty is generally understood to encompass a duty of care and duty of loyalty. 32 It also
stated that the language “includes, but is not limited to” in paragraph .02 of the Supplementary
Material was vague, and suggested that the MSRB specify what other duties are included. In
response to the comment, the MSRB, in Amendment No. 1, eliminated the phrase “, without
limitation,” in Proposed Rule G-42(a)(ii). However, the MSRB did not make the suggested
change to paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material because the MSRB stated its intent to
make clear that the proposed rule change is not an exhaustive statement of all aspects of the duty
of loyalty.33
B. Duty of Care – Reasonable Investigation of Facts
In response to the Proposing Release, four commenters expressed concern regarding the
duty of care standard, as expressed in paragraph .01 of the Supplementary Material, which
requires municipal advisors to undertake “a reasonable investigation” to avoid basing

30

See August Response Letter.

31

See December Response Letter.

32

See SIFMA letter dated May 28, 2015.

33

See August Response Letter.

23

recommendations on “materially inaccurate or incomplete information.” 34 All four commenters
argued that a municipal advisor should be permitted to assume that information beyond what is
publicly available and is provided by the client is complete and accurate. ICI and SIFMA argued
that this requirement was inconsistent with current regulatory regimes as other financial
professionals are not required to investigate information provided by clients. 35 SIFMA expressed
concern that this requirement would make a municipal advisor potentially liable to its client for
that client’s own misrepresentations. 36 ICI argued that in the context of 529 college savings
plans, it is not uncommon for the municipal advisor that is acting as a plan sponsor to rely on its
state partner to provide the advisor with the information necessary for the advisor to fulfill its
obligations and duties to the plan. 37 In such circumstances, ICI argued, municipal advisors should
be able to presume the states’ representatives are providing materially accurate and complete
information. GFOA supported the duty of care provisions generally but expressed concern that
requiring a municipal advisor to investigate this information “may be excessive” and could lead to
cost increases that could be passed on to the client. 38 Finally, NAMA requested the MSRB
provide clarity by providing “non-exclusive explanatory examples of what constitutes a

34

See letters from ICI dated May 29, 2015; GFOA dated June 15, 2015; SIFMA dated May
28, 2015; and WM Financial dated May 29, 2015.

35

See letters from ICI dated May 29, 2015 and SIFMA dated May 28, 2015.

36

See SIFMA letter dated May 28, 2015.

37

See ICI letter dated May 29, 2015.

38

See GFOA letter dated June 15, 2015.

24

‘reasonable inquiry as to the facts that are relevant to a client’s determination as to whether to
proceed with a course of action.’” 39
In its response to comments, the MSRB noted that it had previously responded to similar
comments in the Proposing Release and that it had determined that the requirement would not
result in an unreasonable and unnecessary burden for municipal advisors or their clients. 40 In
response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, Columbia Capital, ICI, NAMA, SIFMA and WM
Financial each expressed similar concerns regarding the same requirement.41 In Columbia
Capital’s view, the proposed requirement is unreasonable because it would hold a municipal
advisor accountable if a municipal entity or obligated person fails to provide the municipal
advisor pertinent non-public information that might have impacted its advice or
recommendations.42 ICI noted its consistent support of Proposed Rule G-42, but reiterated its
objection to the requirement that a municipal advisor conduct a reasonable investigation of the
veracity of the information provided by a municipal advisory client. 43 ICI stated its view that, to
date, the MSRB has failed to provide any rationale, or “meaningful information” supporting the
necessity of the requirement, or why such investigation is in the public interest. In addition, ICI
stated that the MSRB has not provided sufficient economic analysis for this requirement. NAMA
39

See NAMA letter dated May 29, 2015.

40

See August Response Letter (citing Proposing Release, 80 FR 26752, at 26763, 26773-74,
26783-84).

41

See letters from Columbia Capital dated September 10, 2015; ICI dated September 11,
2015; NAMA dated September 11, 2015; SIFMA dated September 11, 2015; and WM
Financial dated September 11, 2015.

42

See Columbia Capital letter dated September 10, 2015.

43

See ICI letter dated September 11, 2015.

25

believed the proposed rule change does not provide adequate guidance as to what a “reasonable
investigation” would require of a municipal advisor. 44 NAMA believed, without further clarity,
examination for compliance with the proposed rule change by financial regulators “could lead to
unsettling results.” SIFMA commented that the proposed obligation is “unnecessary,
counterproductive, and inefficient.” 45 In addition, SIFMA believed that the requirement would
impose unnecessary costs on municipal advisor clients, who, in SIFMA’s opinion, would
ultimately bear the financial burden of having their municipal advisor investigate facts already
known to the client. ICI and SIFMA both pointed to other regulatory regimes and rules where,
according to the commenters, regulated entities (e.g., broker-dealers, swap dealers and investment
advisers) are not required to investigate information provided by clients.
WM Financial supported the requirement that a municipal advisor should conduct
reasonable investigations of publicly available documentation and engage in discussions with the
client such that the municipal advisor’s recommendations reflect what the advisor reasonably
believes is in the customer’s best interest. 46 However, WM Financial commented that a municipal
advisor should not be required to determine whether the information provided to it by its client is
materially inaccurate or incomplete, and should be able to rely on publicly available documents as
being true and accurate.
In response to Amendment No. 2, ICI reiterated the concerns regarding the Proposed
Rule’s requirement that municipal advisors undertake a reasonable investigation of the accuracy

44

See NAMA letter dated September 11, 2015.

45

See SIFMA letter dated September 11, 2015.

46

See WM Financial letter dated September 11, 2015.

26

and completeness of information on which a municipal advisor bases its recommendation. 47 ICI
stated that Amendment No. 2, despite the amendment stating otherwise, did not address its
concerns regarding the “reasonable investigation requirement” and the MSRB should provide its
basis for maintaining the requirement. As included in its previous comment letters addressing the
“reasonable investigation” requirement, ICI again stated that the MSRB has not provided a
sufficient economic analysis of the potential impact of the requirement and should be required to
do so with special particularity for “advice rendered in connection with 529 college savings
plans.”
In response to these comments, the MSRB stated that the duty of care is a core principle
underlying many of the obligations of the proposed rule change, and the proposed requirement to
conduct a reasonable investigation is vital because the veracity of the information on which a
municipal advisor bases its recommendation can have a significant impact on the ability of a
municipal advisor to make informed and suitable recommendations. 48 The MSRB further stated
its belief that the proposed requirement is necessary to promote the integrity of the municipal
advisory relationship and protect clients from the potentially costly consequences of transactions
undertaken based on unsuitable recommendations. The MSRB reiterated that a municipal advisor
would not be required to go to impractical lengths to determine the accuracy and completeness of
the information on which it would be basing its advice and/or recommendation. 49 Instead, the
MSRB stated that a municipal advisor would be required to investigate using reasonable
47

See ICI letter dated December 1, 2015.

48

See December Response Letter.

49

See id.; see also Proposing Release, 80 FR 26752, at 26753, 26761, 26763, 26773-74 and
26784; see also August Response Letter.

27

diligence. The MSRB further stated that it understands that municipal advisors currently, and
regularly, follow an industry practice of conducting due diligence and fact finding inquiries that
may, or, with some modest modifications, satisfy the requirement to undertake a “reasonable
investigation.” In such cases, the MSRB believes the proposed requirement would add only
nominal costs, if any.
C. Duty of Care – Preparing Official Statements
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, SIFMA commented that proposed paragraph
.01 of the Supplementary Material should more explicitly state that municipal advisors assisting
in the preparation of any portion of an official statement in connection with a competitive
transaction must exercise “reasonable diligence with respect to the accuracy and completeness of
any portion of the official statement as to which the municipal advisor assisted in the
preparation.” 50 SIFMA stated that while the proposed rule does include a reference to this
requirement, the rule language should more explicitly clarify this obligation. In response, the
MSRB stated that the rule language, as proposed, is sufficient to alert municipal advisors of their
obligation and that the rule language conveys the importance of exercising due care when
providing information or advice in connection with the preparation of an official statement. 51
D. Disclosure of Conflicts of Interest
Three commenters expressed concerns regarding the differing timing of documentation
required by sections (b) and (c) of Proposed Rule G-42.52 Each of the commenters recommended
50

See SIFMA letter dated September 11, 2015.

51

See December Response Letter.

52

See letters from BDA dated May 29, 2015; GKB dated May 29, 2015; and NAMA dated
May 29, 2015.

28

that the timing requirement in section (b), on disclosure of conflicts of interest and other
information, be changed to match that in section (c), on documentation of the municipal advisory
relationship. BDA and GKB believe that disclosures of conflicts of interest only matter when
municipal advisors enter into municipal advisory relationships. 53 NAMA stated that the differing
timing requirements would lead to “confusing guidance and duplicative disclosures” to clients. 54
The MSRB previously considered and addressed the same or similar comments regarding
the timing requirements of proposed sections (b) and (c),55 and determined not to make the
recommended changes. The MSRB reasoned that the suggested change would conflict with the
intention of having municipal advisors disclose conflicts of interest prior to or at least upon
engaging in municipal advisory activities and could cause municipal advisors to delay making the
required disclosures until the municipal advisory relationship has been reduced to writing, which
could be a significant amount of time after the client has received and considered, and potentially
acted on, advice or recommendations from the municipal advisor. 56 However, in Amendment No.
1, the MSRB streamlined the steps needed to comply with proposed sections (b) and (c) in
proposed paragraph .06 of the Supplementary Material. Under proposed paragraph .06, a
municipal advisor would not be required to provide the disclosure of conflicts of interest and
other information required under proposed subsection (c)(ii), if the municipal advisor previously
fully complied with the requirements of section (b) to disclose such information and subsection

53

See letters from BDA dated May 29, 2015 and GKB dated May 29, 2015.

54

See NAMA letter dated May 29, 2015.

55

See Proposing Release, 80 FR 26752, at 26769-70.

56

See August Response Letter.

29

(c)(ii) would not require the disclosure of any materially different information than that
previously disclosed.
Columbia Capital commented that it supports the requirement in proposed section (b) that
a municipal advisor disclose material conflicts of interest prior to or upon engaging in municipal
advisory activities.57 However, Columbia Capital suggested modifying the rule language to state
that a municipal advisor must provide such disclosures “at any time requested by the municipal
entity or obligated person, but not later than engaging in” municipal advisory activities. Columbia
Capital believed this would provide more clarity regarding the requirement, without changing the
substance, and thereby promote better compliance with the proposed section. In response, the
MSRB stated that the suggested language would not necessarily provide more clarity to municipal
advisors or better aide in compliance with the proposed requirement than the current rule
language. The MSRB believes that it would be desirable to maintain the proposed rule language
of section (b) because it more clearly coordinates with the language in proposed section (c) 58
regarding the documentation of the municipal advisory relationship and would, therefore, better
assist municipal advisors in complying with the different timing requirements of both sections.
The MSRB further responded that section (b) contemplates that disclosures may be made at any
time prior to engaging in municipal advisory activities, and therefore nothing in the proposed rule
change would prevent a municipal advisor and its client from agreeing that the disclosures would

57

See Columbia Capital letter dated September 10, 2015.

58

Proposed section (c) would require a municipal advisor to “evidence each of its municipal
advisory relationships by a writing or writings created and delivered to the municipal
entity or obligated person client prior to, upon or promptly after the establishment of the
municipal advisory relationship.” (emphasis added).

30

be made when requested by the client, so long as the disclosures are made in compliance with all
of the terms of proposed section (b) and other applicable rules.
NAMA suggested merging the two “catch-all provisions” in subsections (b)(i)(A) and
(b)(i)(G) of Proposed Rule G-42 because it is not clear what the difference is between the two
paragraphs.59 In response, the MSRB combined the disclosures required under paragraphs
(b)(i)(A) and (b)(i)(G) in new paragraph (b)(i)(F) of Proposed Rule G-42.60
In response to the Proposing Release, WM Financial stated that contingent fees that are
based on the completion of a transaction, but not on the size of a transaction, are not a conflict of
interest.61 It argued that contingent fee arrangements benefit municipal entities by insuring their
government funds will not be drawn upon for payment of fees if the transaction is not completed.
Accordingly, WM Financial requested that the proposed rule change not require a “conflict of
interest” disclosure for contingent fees that do not inherently create conflicts of interest. In
response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, WM Financial further commented that contingent fee
arrangements do not give rise to material conflicts of interest requiring disclosure in every case,
and disclosure should not be required of contingent fee arrangements that do not inherently create
conflicts of interest. 62 WM Financial believed that such arrangements also serve a useful and
beneficial function for municipal entity clients (e.g., for clients with relatively small budgets) in
that “governmental funds will not be drawn upon for payment of fees if the transaction is not
completed.”
59

See NAMA letter dated May 29, 2015.

60

See Amendment No. 1.

61

See WM Financial letter dated May 29, 2015.

62

See WM Financial letter dated September 11, 2015.

31

Columbia Capital commented that every type of fee structure “creates a set of incentives
and disincentives that can be detrimental to the municipal entity or obligated person,” and
specifying contingent compensation arrangements in the proposed rule implies that contingent
compensation arrangements are more problematic or imbued with greater conflicts of interest than
other compensation arrangements. 63 Columbia Capital suggested that the proposed rule be
modified to require municipal advisors to disclose how they are compensated and to discuss
incentives and disincentives that result from such compensation arrangements and structures.
In response to these comments, the MSRB stated that requiring municipal advisors to
disclose conflicts of interest that could arise from, or are inherent in, contingent compensation is
an appropriate and necessary measure to protect municipal entity and obligated person clients.64
The MSRB noted that, in connection with underwriters, the MSRB requires analogous disclosures
in an analogous context. Pursuant to Rule G-17, the MSRB requires a dealer acting as an
underwriter to disclose to an issuer whether its underwriting compensation will be “contingent on
the closing of a transaction or the size of a transaction,” because, as the MSRB has stated, such
circumstances may present a conflict of interest as a result of the underwriter’s financial incentive
to recommend a transaction that is “unnecessary or to recommend that the size of the transaction
be larger than is necessary.” 65 The MSRB believes that the scenarios in which proposed paragraph
(b)(i)(E) would apply are substantially similar, are subject to the same concerns, and warrant the
application of similar disclosure requirements to help make transparent potential conflicts of
63

See Columbia Capital letter dated September 10, 2015.

64

See December Response Letter.

65

See id. (citing MSRB Interpretive Notice Concerning the Application of MSRB Rule G-17
to Underwriters of Municipal Securities, dated August 2, 2012).

32

interest. The MSRB stated that the purpose of the disclosure requirement, is, of course, to allow a
municipal advisor’s client to make an informed decision based on relevant facts and
circumstances, and, as the MSRB previously explained, municipal advisors would have the
opportunity to provide a client with additional context about the benefits and drawbacks of other
fee arrangements in relation to a contingent fee arrangement so that the client could choose a fee
arrangement that it understands, with which it is comfortable, and that serves its needs. 66 The
MSRB further stated that it does not disagree that other fee arrangements also may give rise to
conflicts, and noted that other terms of proposed section (b) require broad disclosure of all actual
and potential material conflicts of interest. In addition, as the MSRB has emphasized, it does not
endorse, nor discourage, the use of any particular lawful compensation arrangement.
E. Documentation of Municipal Advisory Relationship
GFOA and NAMA expressed concerns with disclosing information regarding legal or
disciplinary events through reference to the municipal advisor’s most recent Form MA and Form
MA-I.67 Both commenters stated it was difficult or burdensome for clients to find the relevant
Form MA and Form MA-I documents in the SEC’s EDGAR system. GFOA requested the
proposed rule be amended to require municipal advisors to provide copies of Form MA-Is
directly to their clients as part of the documentation of the relationship, rather than providing the
location of the forms. 68 GFOA also suggested that municipal advisors be required to notify
clients of changes to Form MA that are material and to provide clients with the updated Form

66

See Proposing Release, 80 FR 26752, at 26764-65; see also August Response Letter.

67

See letters from GFOA dated June 15, 2015 and NAMA dated May 29, 2015.

68

See GFOA letter dated June 15, 2015.

33

MA with an explanation of how any changes made to the form materially pertain to the nature of
the relationship between the municipal advisor and the client.
In response to the comments, the MSRB noted that the provision in proposed section (b)
allowing the municipal advisor to provide legal or disciplinary event disclosures by identifying
the specific type of event and referencing the relevant portions of the municipal advisor’s most
recent Forms MA or MA-I is permissive, not mandatory.69 Also in response to GFOA’s
comment, the MSRB revised Proposed Rule G-42(c)(iv) to require municipal advisors to provide
the client not only the date of the last material change or addition to the legal or disciplinary
event disclosures on any Form MA or Form MA-I, but also to provide a brief explanation of the
basis for the materiality of each change or addition. 70 The MSRB stated that this explanation
would allow a client to assess the effect that such changes may have on the municipal advisory
relationship and evaluate whether it should seek or review additional information. 71
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, SIFMA objected to the revisions to
subsection (c)(iv), requiring municipal advisors to provide a brief explanation of the basis for the
materiality of each change or addition, on the grounds that it would be “unnecessary and overly
burdensome, outweighing any potential benefit.” 72 SIFMA agreed that municipal advisory clients
should have access to information regarding a municipal entity’s legal and disciplinary events,
and that clients should receive notifications of material new disclosures. However, in SIFMA’s
view, the additional requirement would not create any benefit for a municipal advisor’s client
69

See August Response Letter.

70

See Amendment No. 1.

71

See August Response Letter.

72

See SIFMA letter dated September 11, 2015.

34

and would result in “additional paperwork burdens” for the municipal advisor. SIFMA added
that Form MA and MA-I disclosures, in a manner similar to SEC Forms BD and ADV and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) Form U4, already require an explanation of
the events that would also be required to be disclosed and explained under proposed subsection
(c)(iv). In response to SIFMA’s comments, the MSRB stated that requiring a municipal advisor
to provide a brief explanation of the basis for the materiality of each change or addition would
allow a municipal entity client to assess the effect that such changes may have on the municipal
advisory relationship and evaluate whether it should seek or review additional information. 73
When developing this amendment, the MSRB stated that it gave due consideration to comments
submitted by GFOA suggesting changes to the information disclosures that GFOA believed
would allow issuers to focus more efficiently on disclosures that would be material to them and
affect them directly.
NAMA requested the MSRB provide more clarity about the term “detailed information”
in the requirement in subsection (c)(iii) that the municipal advisor provide “detailed information
specifying where the client may electronically access the municipal advisor’s most recent Form
MA and each most recent Form MA-I filed with the Commission.” 74 NAMA suggested the
MSRB provide non-exclusive examples; for example, allowing municipal advisors to provide
clients with a link to the municipal advisor’s EDGAR page. In response to the comment, the
MSRB stated that a municipal advisor would be able to satisfy this aspect of its disclosure
obligation by, for example, providing its client with a functioning Uniform Resource Locator
(“URL”) to the municipal advisor’s most recent Form MA or MA-I filed with the SEC through
73

See December Response Letter.

74

See NAMA letter dated May 29, 2015.

35

the EDGAR system. 75 The MSRB noted that this was only an example and does not preclude
other methods of compliance.
F. Documentation Related to Recommendations
BDA and First Southwest expressed concern that documentation requirements for
recommendations are too burdensome. 76 First Southwest estimated that municipal advisors may
spend between 20% and 30% of their time writing letters to document compliance, providing a
laundry list of consequences that would dilute the advice given, “similar to the way G-17 letters
from underwriters have become boiler plate disclosures and have lost significance.” 77 BDA
suggested that the proposed rule should specifically state that such communication to clients
under section (d) may be oral and is not required to be in writing. 78 BDA was concerned that
informing a client of risks, benefits or other aspects of a transaction in writing may not be in the
client’s best interest because that writing could be obtainable through Freedom of Information Act
requests and other means.
In response, the MSRB stated that the documentation required by Proposed Rule G8(h)(iv) is an appropriately tailored recordkeeping requirement that will assist regulatory
examiners in assessing the compliance of municipal advisors with Proposed Rule G-42.79 In
addition, the MSRB stated its belief that the recordkeeping requirements will not be overly
burdensome because municipal advisors would be required to maintain only the documents
75

See August Response Letter.

76

See letters from BDA dated May 29, 2015 and First Southwest dated May 29, 2015.

77

See First Southwest letter dated May 29, 2015.

78

See BDA letter dated May 29, 2015.

79

See August Response Letter.

36

created by the municipal advisor that were material to its review of a recommendation by another
party or that memorialize the basis for any conclusions as to suitability.
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, BDA, Columbia Capital, NAMA and
SIFMA expressed concern over the documentation requirement under Proposed Rule G-8(h)(iv),
which would require a municipal advisor to keep a copy of any document created by a municipal
advisor “that was material to its review of a recommendation by another party or that
memorializes the basis for any determination as to suitability.” 80 BDA, Columbia Capital and
SIFMA expressed concern about the examination of municipal advisors by financial regulators
(such as the SEC and FINRA), including the question of how the regulators would determine
whether a municipal advisor had complied with the proposed requirements related to
recommendations and documentation retention. The commenters stated that the proposed rule
change should provide additional guidance on the documentation to be maintained. BDA stated
that a transaction on which a municipal advisor is advising may take place over the course of
years, and that it would be difficult for a municipal advisor to have a financial regulatory
examiner come in after the completion of a transaction and examine the municipal advisor’s
documentation process. BDA noted that “it just takes one element of omission to find a firm at
fault.”81 Finally, BDA commented that, without additional guidance about how a municipal
advisor would comply with the proposed provisions addressing recommendations, a discrepancy
may occur between information the examiner desired to review and that which the municipal
advisor could provide.

80

See letters from BDA dated September 11, 2015; Columbia Capital dated September 10,
2015; NAMA dated September 11, 2015; and SIFMA dated September 11, 2015.

81

See BDA letter dated September 11, 2015.

37

Columbia Capital commented that it would be very difficult for a municipal advisor to
“document the rationale for every point of advice in a municipal advisory relationship, including
documenting the rationale for every conceivable path not taken.” 82 Columbia Capital stated that,
without additional specificity, a municipal advisor’s recommendation could be subject to
unreasonable scrutiny by examiners that would not adequately take into account the totality of
the circumstances that impacted the formation of the recommendation provided by the municipal
advisor. SIFMA also commented that it is unclear as to what documentation should be
maintained to “demonstrate in a regulatory examination” that which the municipal advisor relied
upon in making a suitability determination. 83
In addition, Columbia Capital stated its belief that the recordkeeping requirements “might
actually conflict with [a firm’s] fiduciary duty where [the] client desires to maintain such internal
dialogue in confidence” but where the client (in particular public clients) is subject to open
records laws that may frustrate that desire. NAMA stated that the proposed rule is unclear as to
whether the document requirements apply to the financing “as a whole” or whether they apply to
“every facet of a transaction” which could span several months. 84 SIFMA stated that the
proposed documentation requirement is “vastly more burdensome” than the documentation
requirement currently applicable to investment advisers.
In response to comments, the MSRB reiterated its belief that Proposed Rule G-8(h)(iv) is
an appropriately tailored recordkeeping requirement that will assist regulatory examiners in

82

See Columbia Capital letter dated September 11, 2015.

83

See SIFMA letter dated September 11, 2015.

84

See NAMA letter dated September 11, 2015.

38

assessing the compliance of municipal advisors with Proposed Rule G-42.85 The MSRB stated
that the recordkeeping requirement will not be overly burdensome because municipal advisors
would be required to maintain only the documents created by the municipal advisor that: (a)
were material to its review of a recommendation by another party or (b) memorialize the basis
for any conclusions as to suitability of a recommendation the municipal advisor provided. By
limiting the proposed recordkeeping requirement to documents that were material to the review
of a recommendation or that memorialize the basis for a suitability determination as to a
recommendation, the MSRB stated it does not believe that the proposed rule would require, as
suggested by Columbia Capital, a municipal advisor “to document the rationale for every point
of advice” and “the rationale for every conceivable path not taken.” In the Proposing Release, the
MSRB discussed communications between municipal advisors and their clients, noting that
certain communications would constitute recommendations of a municipal securities transaction
or municipal financial product and others, advice. 86 The MSRB clarified that only the former
triggers a suitability determination under the proposed rule. Therefore, if a municipal advisor’s
communication with its municipal entity or obligated person client is advice but not a
recommendation, the proposed documentation requirement would not apply.
With regard to Columbia Capital’s concerns about a municipal advisor maintaining a
level of confidentiality as may be requested by a client, the MSRB stated that the proposed rule
would not create the conflict discussed because Proposed Rule G-8(h)(iv) would not require a
municipal advisor to deliver documents that must be maintained by the municipal advisor to the
client or into the possession of a party not privy to, or contemplated under, the municipal
85

See December Response Letter.

86

See id. (citing Proposing Release, 80 FR 26752, at 26756).

39

advisory relationship. 87 Under Proposed Rule G-42(d), a municipal advisor would be required to
“inform” its client, in a manner that comports with its duty of care and the expressed terms of its
agreement with its client, of certain aspects of its recommendations, and, the municipal advisor
and its client would have some discretion as to the manner in which that information is provided.
The MSRB stated its belief that the discretion provided for in the proposed rule will allow a
municipal advisor to reasonably accommodate a request by a municipal advisory client such as
that described by Columbia Capital and also comply with its fiduciary obligations.
G. Suitability Analysis
NAMA supported section (d)’s requirements to inform clients about reasons for a
recommendation, however, it stated that greater clarity through a non-exclusive list of examples
of how regulated entities could comply with the regulation was needed. 88 Specifically, NAMA
suggested the MSRB provide examples of how a municipal advisor should perform its reasonable
diligence to satisfy the criteria listed in section (d). NAMA also requested guidance on section
(d)(iii), regarding informing a client whether the municipal advisor investigated or considered
reasonably feasible alternatives because NAMA was concerned that a municipal advisor would be
required to provide a list that was exhaustive and non-germane to the client.
PFM requested the MSRB provide a more concise definition of the term “suitable” to
enable municipal advisors to comply with the requirements and stated that the “perfunctory list of
generic factors” for consideration in paragraph .08 of the Supplementary Material failed to
provide municipal advisors with a clear definition of such an important term.89
87

See December Response Letter.

88

See NAMA letter dated May 29, 2015.

89

See PFM letter dated May 29, 2015.
40

The MSRB responded to the comments by stating that it chose not to take a more
prescriptive or descriptive approach to determining suitability in the proposed rule change
because it would risk creating inflexible requirements that would fail to adequately account for
the diversity of municipal advisors, the activities in which they engage and the varying needs of
clients.90 In response to NAMA’s request for additional guidance on proposed subsection
(d)(iii), the MSRB stated that the language in that subsection would not require a municipal
advisor to provide its client with an exhaustive list of “alternative financings” particularly if such
alternative financings are not germane to the client. The MSRB stated that the provision also
would not require the municipal advisor to conduct a suitability analysis on any “reasonably
feasible alternative” considered or investigated by the municipal advisor. Instead, the MSRB
noted that the municipal advisor would be obligated only to inform clients whether or not it
considered or investigated reasonably feasible alternatives, and the decision whether to have the
municipal advisor discuss the alternatives it considered or investigated would be left to the
discretion of the municipal advisor and its client.
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, SIFMA commented that it is unclear when a
communication constitutes a “recommendation” (thus triggering a suitability analysis under the
proposed rule change), as opposed to “advice” or, as SIFMA referenced, “ancillary advice.” 91
According to SIFMA’s comment, in order to “design effective policies and procedures, and to
evidence compliance with this obligation” municipal advisors need to be certain of when their
suitability obligation applies. In SIFMA’s view, because of the uncertainty created by the

90

See August Response Letter.

91

See SIFMA letter dated September 11, 2015.

41

proposed rule regarding “what is a recommendation versus what is ancillary advice,” FINRA and
SEC examiners also would need additional guidance to properly examine for compliance with
the rule.
In response to SIFMA’s comments, the MSRB stated that the proposed rule would adopt,
and apply to municipal advisors, the existing MSRB interpretive guidance regarding the general
principles currently applicable to dealers for determining whether a particular communication
constitutes a recommendation of a securities transaction. 92 In conformance with that interpretive
guidance, the MSRB noted that it has stated that a municipal advisor’s communication to its
client that could reasonably be viewed as a “call to action” to engage in a municipal securities
transaction or enter into a municipal financial product would be considered a recommendation
and would obligate the municipal advisor to conduct a suitability analysis of its recommendation
that adheres to the requirement established by the proposed rule. The MSRB also noted that it
previously has stated that, depending on all of the facts and circumstances, communications by a
municipal advisor to a client that relate to, but are not recommendations of, a municipal
securities transaction or municipal financial product might constitute advice (and therefore
trigger many other provisions of the proposed rule change) but would not trigger the suitability
obligation set forth in proposed section (d). The MSRB stated that providing a more prescriptive
definition of the term “recommendation” is unnecessary and that the proposed rule, along with
the related and referenced interpretive guidance that has been in place for dealers for over a

92

See December Response Letter (citing Proposing Release, 80 FR 26752, at 26756 n. 18
(citing MSRB Rule G-19 and MSRB Notice 2002-30 (September 25, 2002), Notice
Regarding Application of Rule G-19, on Suitability of Recommendations and
Transactions, to Online Communications)).

42

decade, will provide municipal advisors, and SEC and FINRA examiners with sufficient
guidance on this subject.
In response to the Proposing Release, GFOA expressed concern that the language in
subsection (d)(ii) implies that municipal advisors would be permitted to make a recommendation
to a client that is unsuitable, which seemed contrary to the proposed rule’s duty of care and
loyalty requirements. 93 In Amendment No. 1, the MSRB revised the language in subsection
(d)(ii) in response to GFOA’s comment. 94
H. Sophisticated Municipal Issuers
First Southwest requested an exemption to the suitability standard in proposed section (d)
and paragraph .08 of the Supplementary Material for “sophisticated municipal issuers.” 95 First
Southwest stated that certain issuers are capable of independently evaluating risks in issuing
municipal securities, and exercising independent judgment in evaluating recommendations of a
municipal advisor. In response to the comment, the MSRB noted that when the SEC adopted the
final municipal advisor registration rule 96 it did not include an exemption from registration as a
municipal advisor for persons providing advice to clients of a certain sophistication. 97 The MSRB
stated its belief that it would be premature to categorically exclude certain clients from the
protections of the proposed rule given that municipal advisors have become subject only recently
93

See GFOA letter dated June 15, 2015.

94

See August Response Letter.

95

See First Southwest letter dated May 29, 2015.

96

See Registration of Municipal Advisors, Exchange Act Release No. 70462 (September 20,
2013), 78 FR 67467 (November 12, 2013) (“SEC Final Rule”).

97

See August Response Letter.

43

to the SEC’s regulatory framework governing their registration and the MSRB’s developing
regulatory framework for municipal advisors.
I. Inadvertent Advice
SIFMA suggested that the safe harbor in paragraph .0698 of the Supplementary Material
for inadvertent advice be expanded to include the prohibition on principal transactions. 99 SIFMA
argued that firms would be unlikely to rely on the safe harbor unless it also provided an
exemption for inadvertent advice triggering the prohibition on principal transactions.
In response to these comments, the MSRB stated that section (d) of Proposed Rule G-42
applies only in the case where a municipal advisor makes a recommendation of a municipal
securities transaction or municipal financial product, or where within the scope of the engagement
and at the client’s request, the municipal advisor reviews a recommendation of a third party. 100
The MSRB believes these limitations will address SIFMA’s concerns to some degree. In addition,
the MSRB stated that other commenters expressed concern that if the safe harbor were to relieve
municipal advisors from compliance with proposed subsection (e)(ii), on principal transactions,
the provision might be misinterpreted or misused in a manner contrary to the purposes of the
SEC’s registration regime and the fiduciary duty owed to municipal entity clients.
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, Columbia Capital expressed concern
regarding the inadvertent advice exemption, stating it is “rife for abuse” and that the MSRB
should define “inadvertent” very narrowly. 101 WM Financial argued that the inadvertent advice
98

Proposed paragraph .06 was renumbered in Amendment No. 1 as proposed paragraph .07.

99

See SIFMA letter dated May 28, 2015.

100

See August Response Letter.

101

See Columbia Capital letter dated September 10, 2015.
44

provision creates a loophole that would allow broker dealers to serve as financial advisors
(without a fiduciary duty) and then switch to serving as an underwriter by claiming that such
advice was inadvertent. 102 WM Financial suggested that any entity relying on the inadvertent
advice provision should be required to file the required documentation not only with the issuer,
but also with the MSRB, and that the filing should be made public. In addition, WM Financial
suggested that any entity relying on the inadvertent advice provision be allowed to rely on the
exception only one time in any calendar year.
In response to the comments, the MSRB noted that the inadvertent advice exemption
would only apply when a municipal advisor inadvertently engages in municipal advisory
activities but does not intend to continue the municipal advisory activities or enter into a
municipal advisory relationship. 103 The MSRB further explained that the proposed paragraph
would only relieve the municipal advisor from complying with proposed sections (b) and (c)
(relating to disclosure of conflicts of interest and documentation of the relationship) of Proposed
Rule G-42, and not any other requirements. The MSRB believes that proposed paragraph .07 is
sufficiently clear with regard to the narrow relief it allows and that the obligations that municipal
advisors would be required to undertake to obtain that relief are adequate to curb the types of
abuse about which commenters have expressed concern.
J. Prohibition on Delivering Inaccurate Invoices
SIFMA expressed support for the prohibition on delivering inaccurate invoices, but
requested the addition of materiality and knowledge qualifiers (i.e., a municipal advisor may not

102

See WM Financial letters dated May 29, 2015 and September 11, 2015.

103

See December Response Letter.

45

intentionally deliver a materially inaccurate invoice), so that immaterial or unintentional errors
would not be prohibited. 104 In response to the comment, the MSRB modified Proposed Rule G42(e)(i)(B) to prohibit “delivering an invoice …for municipal advisory activities that is materially
inaccurate in its reflection of the activities actually performed or the personnel that actually
performed those activities” and to delete the words “do not accurately reflect” within the same
provision.105 The MSRB declined to add a state-of-mind requirement as SIFMA requested
because it would not sufficiently protect municipal entity and obligated person clients.
K. Prohibited Principal Transactions
In response to the Proposing Release, ten commenters expressed a variety of concerns
with the prohibition on certain principal transactions in Proposed Rule G-42(e)(ii).106 In response
to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, seven commenters addressed the proposed prohibition on
certain principal transactions. 107 In Amendment No. 2, the MSRB incorporated the Exception to
the principal transaction ban in response to the comments received. In response to Amendment
No. 2, six commenters addressed the Exception.108
104

See SIFMA letter dated May 28, 2015.

105

See Amendment No. 1; see also August Response Letter.

106

See letters from SIFMA dated May 28, 2015; Zions dated May 29, 2015; ABA dated May
29, 2015; BDA dated May 29, 2015; GKB dated May 29, 2015; Millar Jiles dated May 29,
2015; FSI dated May 29, 2015; GFOA dated June 15, 2015; Wells Fargo dated May 29,
2015; and NAMA dated May 29, 2015.

107

See letters from BDA dated September 11, 2015 and December 1, 2015; Coastal
Securities dated September 11, 2015; FSI dated September 11, 2015; GFOA dated
September 14, 2015; Millar Jiles dated September 11, 2015; SIFMA dated September 11,
2015; and Zions dated September 10, 2015.

108

See letters from BDA dated December 1, 2015; FSI dated December 1, 2015; GFOA
dated December 1, 2015; NAMA dated December 1, 2015; SIFMA dated December 1,
2015; and Spencer Wright dated December 16, 2015.
46

1. Consistency with Exchange Act
BDA, FSI, Millar Jiles, SIFMA and Zions commented that, if no exception to the
proposed principal transaction ban were added, the Proposed Rule would be inconsistent with
one or more of the following provisions of the Exchange Act:109 Section 15B(b)(2)(L),110 Section
15B(b)(2)(L)(i),111 Section 15B(b)(2)(C),112 and Section 3(f).113 The commenters suggested
exceptions to the proposed ban or other changes, including an exception modeled on those found
in other regulatory regimes, an exception when advice is provided to a municipal entity client
that is incidental to securities execution services, an exception limited to riskless principal
transactions in certain fixed income securities, an exception when the municipal entity is
otherwise represented with respect to the principal transaction by another registered municipal
advisor, an exception for affiliates or remote businesses, and modifications to narrow the scope
of the prohibition.
The MSRB responded to the foregoing comments by incorporating the Exception to the
principal transaction ban, as discussed below under “Exception to Principal Transaction Ban.”
2. Comparison with Similar Regulatory Regimes
109

See letters from BDA dated September 11, 2015; FSI dated September 11, 2015; Millar
Jiles dated September 11, 2015; SIFMA dated September 11, 2015; and Zions dated
September 10, 2015 (raising concerns regarding the following provisions of the Exchange
Act, in connection with the principal transaction ban: Section 15B(b)(2)(L) (SIFMA and
Zions); Section 15B(b)(2)(L)(i) (BDA, FSI, SIFMA and Zions); Section 15B(b)(2)(C)
(FSI, SIFMA and Zions); and Section 3(f) (Millar Jiles and SIFMA)).

110

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(L).

111

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(L)(i).

112

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(C).

113

15 U.S.C. 78c(f).

47

In response to the Proposing Release, SIFMA and Zions expressed concerns that the
prohibition on principal transactions is overbroad and inconsistent with existing regulatory
regimes regarding financial professionals. 114 Both commenters argued that restrictions on
principal transactions for municipal advisors and their affiliates should be consistent with those
on investment advisers, who are permitted to engage in principal transactions provided they
make relevant disclosures and obtain client consent.
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, BDA, Coastal Securities, FSI, Millar Jiles,
SIFMA and Zions commented that the principal transaction ban should be revised to permit
municipal advisors to engage in principal transactions with their municipal entity clients,
provided that disclosure of conflicts is made to the client and the client consents. 115 Commenters
suggested that the MSRB consider incorporating an exception to the proposed ban modeled on,
or similar to, Section 206(3) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) 116 or
Advisers Act Rule 206(3)-3(T),117 available to firms dually registered as a broker-dealer and
investment adviser. 118 FSI and Millar Jiles stated that a ban on principal transactions was
unnecessary in view of the fiduciary relationship between a municipal advisor and its municipal
entity client. Zions commented that the proposed ban is inconsistent with the federal regulation
114

See letters from SIFMA dated May 28, 2015 and Zions dated May 29, 2015.

115

See letters from BDA dated September 11, 2015; Coastal Securities dated September 11,
2015; FSI dated September 11, 2015; Millar Jiles dated September 11, 2015; SIFMA
dated September 11, 2015; and Zions dated September 10, 2015.

116

15 U.S.C. 80b-6(3) (“Section 206(3)”).

117

17 CFR 275.206(3)-3T (“IA Rule”).

118

See, e.g., letters from BDA dated September 11, 2015; FSI dated September 11, 2015;
Millar Jiles dated September 11, 2015; SIFMA dated September 11, 2015; and Zions dated
September 10, 2015.

48

of investment advisers, and stated that the MSRB has no basis for treating municipal advisors
differently than investment advisers when setting fiduciary duty standards, and municipal
advisors should be permitted to engage in principal transactions with their municipal entity
clients, provided that advice and consent requirements are met. FSI suggested an exception to the
ban could include certain disclosure and client consent provisions similar to Advisers Act
Temporary Rule 206(3)-3T that permits investment advisers that are also broker-dealers to act in
a principal capacity in transactions with certain advisory clients. 119 FSI also suggested the
proposed exception be limited to certain fixed-income securities as defined by Rule 10b10(d)(4).
The MSRB responded to the foregoing comments by incorporating the Exception to the
principal transaction ban, as discussed below under “Exception to Principal Transaction Ban.”
3. Advice Incidental to Securities Execution Services
FSI, GFOA and SIFMA requested an exemption to the principal transaction prohibition
when advice is provided to a municipal entity client that is incidental to or ancillary to a brokerdealer’s execution of securities transactions, including transactions involving municipal bond
proceeds or municipal escrow funds. 120 GFOA expressed concern that the proposed prohibition
could force small governments to establish “a more expensive fee-based arrangement with an
investment adviser in order to receive this very limited type of advice on investments that are not
risky.”121
119

See FSI letter dated May 29, 2015.

120

See letters from FSI dated September 11, 2015; GFOA dated June 15, 2015; and SIFMA
dated May 28, 2015.

121

See GFOA letter dated June 15, 2015.

49

In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, BDA, FSI, GFOA, and SIFMA also
suggested that the MSRB consider an exception to the ban for limited advice that is incidental to
securities execution services. 122 GFOA acknowledged that the ban makes sense in the context of a
traditional financial advisor, however, GFOA was concerned about what it viewed to be a
removal of the issuer from the conflicts of interest process and the lack of an exception to the
proposed ban regarding the investment of proceeds of municipal securities and municipal escrow
investments.123 FSI stated that a ban on transactions, where the advice is incidental to the
securities execution services, would impose an unnecessary burden on competition, and suggested
an exception be incorporated for transactions executed in such circumstances. 124 FSI also
suggested that the exception could be limited to transactions in certain fixed income securities or,
alternatively, limited to riskless principal transactions in certain fixed income securities.
Commenters, including BDA, FSI, GFOA, Millar Jiles, SIFMA and Zions, noted the importance,
in their view, of: (i) preserving municipal entities’ choice and access to services and products at
favorable prices; (ii) preserving municipal entities’ access to financial advisors with whom such
municipal entities have relationships; and (iii) avoiding increased costs to municipal entities. 125
The MSRB responded to the foregoing comments by incorporating the Exception to the
principal transaction ban, as discussed below under “Exception to Principal Transaction Ban.”
122

See letters from BDA dated November 4, 2015; FSI dated September 11, 2015; GFOA
dated September 14, 2015; and SIFMA dated September 11, 2015.

123

See GFOA letter dated June 15, 2015.

124

See FSI letters dated May 29, 2015 and September 11, 2015.

125

See letters from BDA dated September 11, 2015 and November 4, 2015; FSI dated
September 11, 2015; GFOA dated September 14, 2015; Millar Jiles dated September 11,
2015; SIFMA dated September 11, 2015; and Zions dated September 10, 2015.

50

4. Scope of Principal Transaction Ban: “Directly Related To”
BDA, GKB and SIFMA expressed concern that the language in subsection (e)(ii) limiting
the principal transaction prohibition to transactions “directly related to the same municipal
securities transaction or municipal financial product” is vague or overly broad. 126 One of the
commenters proposed alternative language prohibiting a principal transaction “if the structure,
timing or terms of such principal transaction was established on the advice of the municipal
advisor….”127 The commenter also requested clarification regarding the application of the
principal transaction ban to several specific scenarios. 128
SIFMA argued that any prohibition should be more narrowly tailored to prevent principal
transactions directly related to the advice provided by the municipal advisor. 129 SIFMA believed
that, as written, the prohibition would prevent a firm from acting as counterparty on a swap after
having advised a municipal entity client on investing proceeds from a connected issuance of
municipal securities. SIFMA proposed alternative language prohibiting principal transactions
“directly related to the advice rendered by such municipal advisor.” SIFMA also requested
clarification regarding when a ban would end because as written, the prohibition would require
firms to check for advisory relationships that may have ended long before the proposed principal
transaction takes place.

126

See letters from BDA dated May 29, 2015; GKB dated May 29, 2015; and SIFMA dated
May 28, 2015.

127

See letters from BDA dated May 29, 2015 and GKB dated May 29, 2015.

128

See BDA letter dated May 29, 2015.

129

See SIFMA letter dated May 28, 2015.

51

In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, SIFMA commented that the MSRB failed to
consider a suggestion to amend the ban to limit its scope to principal transactions that are directly
related to the advice provided by the municipal advisor. 130
In response to the comments, the MSRB determined not to narrow, broaden or otherwise
modify the standard in this regard. 131 The MSRB stated its belief that the alternative rule text
suggested by SIFMA would not be a more effective or efficient means for achieving the stated
objective of the proposed ban, which is to eliminate a category of particularly acute conflicts of
interest that would arise in a fiduciary relationship between a municipal advisor and its municipal
entity client. In this context, the MSRB noted that the suggested change could leave transactions
that have a high risk of self-dealing insufficiently addressed.
The MSRB modified the proposed ban to incorporate the Exception, discussed below
under “Exception to Prohibited Principal Transactions.” In light of the MSRB’s incorporation of
the Exception, the MSRB stated its belief that it is not appropriate to further modify the ban at this
time.132
5. Affiliates or “Remote Businesses”
In response to the Proposing Release, SIFMA and Wells Fargo addressed concerns
regarding the impact of the principal transaction prohibition on affiliates of municipal advisors. 133
Wells Fargo stated that the MSRB should exempt municipal advisor affiliates operating with
information barriers, and stated that if an affiliate has no actual knowledge of the municipal
130

See SIFMA letter dated September 11, 2015.

131

See MSRB Response Letters.

132

See December Response Letter.

133

See letters of SIFMA dated May 28, 2015 and Wells Fargo dated May 29, 2015.

52

advisory relationship between the municipal entity client and the municipal advisor due to
information barriers and governance structures, the risk of a conflict of interest is significantly
diminished.134 SIFMA proposed the addition of a knowledge standard (i.e., to prohibit a
municipal advisor and any affiliate from knowingly engaging in a prohibited principal
transaction), arguing that such a knowledge standard is consistent with Section 206(3) of the
Advisers Act.135 SIFMA suggested that an investment vehicle such as a mutual fund that is
advised by a municipal advisor or its affiliate should not itself be an “affiliate” of the municipal
advisor solely on the basis of the advisory relationship. Otherwise, SIFMA argued the investment
fund may be unable to invest in a municipal security if an affiliate of the fund’s advisor acted as a
municipal advisor on the transaction. SIFMA stated that the ban in this type of situation is
unnecessary because mutual funds and similar vehicles have independent boards and their
affiliates do not have significant equity stakes in the funds they advise.
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, SIFMA commented that the MSRB failed to
consider limiting the application of the ban to affiliates of a municipal advisor that have no
knowledge of the municipal advisory engagement, or more broadly to affiliates and business units
of the municipal advisor that have no such knowledge. 136 SIFMA commented that the proposed
rule would “significantly harm competition” because it would lead to municipal advisor firms
exiting the municipal advisory marketplace. SIFMA commented that a decrease in municipal

134

See Wells Fargo letter dated May 29, 2015.

135

See SIFMA letter dated May 28, 2015.

136

The MSRB responded to a prior comment by SIFMA regarding this matter, stating that
SIFMA’s suggestion to add a knowledge qualifier would be overly stringent, which could
hinder regulatory examinations and enforcement. See August Response Letter.

53

advisors may result in the remaining firms increasing their fees and a deterioration in the quality
of the services provided by municipal advisory firms.
In response to the comments, the MSRB stated its belief that the proposed ban, as to
affiliates, is appropriately targeted given the acute nature of the conflicts of interest presented
and the risk of self-dealing by affiliates in transactions that are “directly related” to the municipal
securities transaction or municipal financial product as to which the affiliated municipal advisor
has provided advice. 137 The MSRB believes that the concerns expressed by various commenters,
including the concerns regarding the potential impact on competition in the municipal advisory
marketplace, will be substantially mitigated, if they at all manifest, by the MSRB’s inclusion of
the Exception to the principal transaction ban.
6. Bank Loans
Several commenters expressed concerns with proposed paragraph .11 of the
Supplementary Material under which a bank loan would be subject to the prohibition on principal
transactions if the loan was “in an aggregate principal amount of $1,000,000 or more and
economically equivalent to the purchase of one or more municipal securities.” 138
ABA expressed a general concern that banking organizations that are required to operate
through a variety of affiliates and subsidiaries would fall within the scope of the “common
control” definition in the statute and the prohibition would prevent a banking organization from
providing ordinary bank services to a municipal entity. 139 ABA also requested the prohibition be
137

See December Response Letter.

138

See letters from ABA dated May 29, 2015; Millar Jiles dated May 29, 2015; BDA dated
May 29, 2015; and Zions dated May 29, 2015.

139

See ABA letter dated May 29, 2015.

54

amended to exclude bank loans made by an affiliate from the definition of “other similar financial
products” if the bank enters into the loan after the municipal entity solicits bidders for such loan
using a request for proposal and the bank intends to hold the loan on its books until maturity.
ABA believed that there should be few concerns regarding conflicts if a loan is entered into by an
affiliate of a municipal advisor and a municipal entity would be free to choose its lender based on
factors most appropriate for the municipality and its taxpayers. In addition, ABA stated that the
potential conflicts of interest should be substantially mitigated if a bank holds a loan on its books
to maturity because in such cases, the commenter believes the interest of the municipal entity and
the bank are aligned in that each party wants funding that serves the particular needs of the
municipal entity and both parties must be satisfied that the loan can be repaid and desire that it be
repaid.140
Similarly, Millar Jiles suggested that a municipal advisor should be able to satisfy its
fiduciary obligation to a municipal entity by procuring bids for the proposed financing (and thus
make a principal bank loan through an affiliated entity permissible), stating that if the affiliate of
the municipal advisor were the lowest bidder, the municipality would be penalized by being
forced to borrow at a higher rate under the proposed rule change. 141
The MSRB responded that even if both elements (i.e., the use of an RFP and intent to hold
a loan to maturity) were incorporated as conditions to exclude certain principal transactions from
the prohibition in Proposed Rule G-42(e)(ii), the conflicts of interest are not sufficiently mitigated
to eliminate the concerns of overreaching and self-dealing and other actions inconsistent with the

140

Id.; see also Zions letter dated May 29, 2015.

141

See Millar Jiles letter dated May 29, 2015.

55

fiduciary duty between a municipal and its client. 142 The MSRB reasoned that the bank and
borrower are counterparties with conflicting interests, and a lender’s intent at one point in time to
hold a loan on its books until maturity would provide insufficient controls or checks over conflicts
of interest inherent in the transaction. The MSRB explained that at any time after making the
loan, a bank would be free to change its intent and sell the loan if doing so was in the bank’s best
interest. The MSRB also stated its belief that an RFP process does not protect a municipal entity
sufficiently from conflicts of interest because, for example, a municipal advisor may be able to
inappropriately influence the municipal entity client to obtain a loan instead of issuing a
municipal security, or to influence the RFP process or requirements to favor the selection of the
municipal advisor’s bank affiliate as lender.
Zions argued that bank loans “should be excluded in their entirety” from Proposed Rule
G-42.143 Zions believed that it would be paradoxical to allow individuals and private businesses
to borrow money from banks that are fiduciaries, but to prevent municipal entities from doing the
same. Alternatively, Zions requested that MSRB increase the threshold loan amount in paragraph
.11 of the Supplementary Material to align with the bank qualified exemption amount in the
Internal Revenue Code, which it states is currently $10 million.
In response to Zions’s comments, the MSRB noted that proposed paragraph .12, on
principal transactions - other similar financial products, is limited substantially and would target
only those loans that would be the same as, or directly related to, the municipal securities
transaction or municipal financial product as to which the municipal advisor is providing or has
provided advice and which would be considered “economically equivalent to the purchase of one
142

See August Response Letter.

143

See Zions letter dated May 29, 2015.

56

or more municipal securities.” 144 The MSRB also responded to the comments regarding
increasing the threshold from $1 million to $10 million by stating the same threshold is used in
other aspects of the regulation of municipal securities such as SEC Rule 15c2-12,145 and that after
the MSRB has experience with the rule as in effect, the MSRB may solicit information regarding
whether the threshold should be modified.
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, Zions commented that the principal
transaction ban is overly broad and inconsistent with federal banking laws, and, as an alternative
to generally permitting principal transactions (subject to disclosure and consent requirements),
bank loans should be excluded in their entirety from the ban. 146 Zions commented that banks, as
highly regulated entities, should be allowed to continue offering traditional banking services to
municipal entities, including as principal. Zions further commented that determining on a caseby-case basis whether a particular transaction is economically equivalent to the purchase of one or
more municipal securities is unnecessarily complex and costly for products that are already
thoroughly regulated. As an example of the complexity of applying the standard, Zions stated that
the written evidence of indebtedness from municipal entities must have virtually the same
structure and provisions that would be in place for a municipal security. Zions stated that the only
clear way to distinguish between direct bank loans and municipal securities is to look at the intent
of the acquirer at the time of acquisition. In Zions’s view, if the indebtedness is acquired with an
intent to distribute, the instrument should be deemed a security, but if a bank acquires the
indebtedness directly for its own portfolio with no intent to distribute, the instrument is, and
144

See August Response Letter.

145

17 C.F.R. 240.15c2-12(a).

146

See Zions letter dated September 10, 2015.

57

should be treated as, a bank loan. If bank loans are potentially subject to the ban, Zions suggested,
as an alternative, that the threshold bank loan amount be higher than $1 million. Zions believed
that the threshold amount should be consistent with, and pegged to, the $10 million threshold for
bank-qualified obligations under Section 265 of the Internal Revenue Code. 147 In addition, Zions
commented that, for the Proposed Rule to be consistent with the Exchange Act, the proposed
threshold should be raised to $10 million. Zions also commented that unless the threshold amount
was increased, the proposed ban would be inconsistent with the goals of the Community
Reinvestment Act (“CRA”). 148 Zions believed that the ban may prevent municipal advisors, such
as Zions, from issuing direct loans to smaller and more remote municipal entities and/or cause
banks to provide services to underserviced municipalities in less than all three of the required
categories of the CRA (i.e., lending, investments and financial services).
In response to Zions’s comments, the MSRB stated that the concerns are addressed to
some extent by the bank exemption from the definition of “municipal advisor.” 149 In addition, the
MSRB stated that even in situations where a bank’s provision of advice were not exempt and
Proposed Rule G-42 and the ban applied, Zions’s concerns referenced above and its concern
regarding the impact to smaller communities or projects in such communities as a result of the
proposed ban, should be substantially ameliorated because the MSRB has added the Exception.
The MSRB explained that bank loans were included in the ban and should remain as a “similar
financial product” because, as a matter of market practice, bank loans serve as a financing
alternative to the issuance of municipal securities and pose a comparable, acute potential for self147

26 U.S.C. 265 et seq.

148

12 U.S.C. 2901 et seq.

149

See December Response Letter (citing 17 CFR 240.15Ba1-1(d)(e)(iii)).
58

dealing and other breaches of the fiduciary duty owed by a municipal advisor to a municipal
entity client. The MSRB also stated that it does not find support in the comments for importing
into the proposed term “Other Similar Financial Products” an unrelated dollar threshold (i.e., $10
million) from a statutory provision regarding the bank qualification of municipal securities, in lieu
of the proposed $1 million threshold.
In response to Zions’s comments that the principal transaction ban should be eliminated
because of its possible impact on the CRA, the MSRB noted that the proposed prohibition on
principal transactions is narrowly targeted and would have a limited impact on a municipal
advisor or its affiliate providing loans and financial services, generally. The MSRB also stated
that Zions’s comments do not demonstrate – and the MSRB is not aware of any indication – that
Congress intended the requirements of the CRA to take precedence over other statutory and
regulatory requirements.
BDA commented on the language of paragraph .11 of the Supplementary Material,
arguing that the phrase “economically equivalent” is “too ambiguous and does not provide
clarity.”150 BDA acknowledged this phrase appeared intended to develop a standard that does not
require the determination of when a bank loan constitutes a security, and acknowledged
difficulties applying the Reves151 test to make such a determination. However, BDA argued that
this language will “compound the confusion” and requested that the MSRB be clear about which
structural components of a direct purchase structure would cause it to fall within the scope of the
transaction ban.

150

See BDA letter dated May 29, 2015.

151

Reves v. Ernst & Young, 494 U.S. 56 (1990).

59

The MSRB responded that not all loans of $1 million or more would be considered an
“other similar financial product,” and that determination would depend on the facts and
circumstances regarding a particular loan, including structure and marketing. 152 In response to
BDA’s comment about applying the Reves test, the MSRB stated that Reves would not be the
appropriate test to determine whether a bank loan is considered an “other similar financial
product,” because the defined term is drafted intentionally to include bank loans other than those
that are a security.
Millar Jiles also expressed confusion regarding the “economically equivalent”
language.153 Millar Jiles requested clarity regarding the time period over which bank loans should
be aggregated in order to determine whether a series of loans meets the “aggregate principal
amount” threshold specified in paragraph .11 of the Supplementary Material. Millar Jiles also
noted that the typical bank loan to a municipal entity is for the purchase of equipment and is
payable over a term of less than five years, while the typical municipal security is secured by a
pledge of revenues and is payable over a much longer term. Millar Jiles asked whether a bank
loan of $1,500,000 which is secured by real or personal property and which is payable over a term
of five years or less would be “economically equivalent to the purchase of one or more municipal
securities.”
In response to Millar Jiles’s comments, the MSRB stated that whether one or more loans
would be aggregated to reach the $1 million threshold would depend on the facts and
circumstances surrounding the transactions, including but not limited to factors such as how close
in time to the other the loans occurred, the purpose of each loan and the similarity of purpose
152

See August Response Letter.

153

See Millar Jiles letter dated May 29, 2015.

60

among the loans, and whether such loans are components of a more comprehensive plan of
financing. The MSRB clarified that no single factor would be determinative in such an analysis.
7. Separate Registered Municipal Advisor
SIFMA suggested the proposed subsection (e)(ii) be revised to permit an otherwise
prohibited principal transaction where the municipal entity is represented by more than one
municipal advisor, including a separate registered municipal advisor with respect to the principal
transaction.154 SIFMA argued this exemption would be comparable to the independent registered
municipal advisor exemption, and would permit municipal entities to contract with a counterparty
of their choice. SIFMA also noted this would be especially beneficial to municipal entities who
may hire several municipal advisors for different elements of the same transaction.
The MSRB concluded that the incorporation at this stage of an exception to the ban like
that suggested by SIFMA would be premature, add additional and unnecessary complexity, and
be potentially burdensome to administer. 155 To provide appropriate protection to municipal
entities while including an exception such as that suggested by SIFMA, it likely would be
necessary to impose a number of conditions, as the MSRB previously noted. 156 The MSRB
believes that the Exception to the proposed ban is the more appropriate approach to maintain the
necessary protections for municipal entities, investors and the public while helping to ensure that
issuers will continue to have access to a competitive market for municipal advisory and other
financial services. The MSRB believes the Exception will provide a useful, practical path for a
154

See SIFMA letters dated May 28, 2015 and September 11, 2015.

155

See December Response Letter.

156

See August Response Letter (identifying some of the substantial additional relationship
documentation that likely would be required).

61

municipal advisor that is otherwise prohibited from engaging in certain principal transactions with
its municipal entity client to do so, subject to the stated terms and conditions, and the MSRB has
proposed the Exception to be responsive to the comments from a range of commenters, including
SIFMA.
8. Governing Body Approval
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, BDA suggested that the principal
transaction ban be amended not only for municipal advisors providing advice in connection with
the trading as principal of securities, but also to allow most principal transactions if the
transaction is approved by the governing body of the municipal entity client after the governing
body has been fully informed about any actual or potential conflicts of interest associated with
the principal transaction. 157
In response to BDA’s comment, the MSRB stated that BDA’s proposed exception was
quite broadly drawn and may, in many instances, not address the type of self-dealing transactions
and the resulting abuses from self-dealing that the statutory requirements and the developing
regulatory framework for municipal advisors were intended to address. 158 Even if both
conditions (i.e., disclosure of potential and actual conflicts of interest and a vote approving the
transaction) were incorporated in an exception of the scope suggested by BDA, the MSRB
believes that the conflicts of interest of the municipal entity’s counter-party—its own municipal
advisor—would be fully present, and not sufficiently mitigated to eliminate or substantially
reduce the concerns of overreaching and self-dealing and other actions inconsistent with the

157

See BDA letter dated November 4, 2015.

158

See December Response Letter.

62

fiduciary duty of the municipal advisor. The MSRB believes that the Exception to the proposed
principal transaction ban is responsive to the concerns raised by the BDA generally.
9. Exception to Principal Transaction Ban
In response to Amendment No. 2, the SEC received six comment letters on the principal
transaction ban and the proposed Exception.159 NAMA supported the proposed rule change, as
amended by Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2, and urged the SEC to approve it “without
further erosion of the important principal transaction ban that is in place to protect issuers.” 160
NAMA stated its belief that the Exception is sufficient to accomplish the proposed rule’s
objective “in light of the difficulties principal transactions raise.”
SIFMA commented that the Exception shows movement toward a more workable
construct than the complete principal transaction ban, but that “importing into the Exception all
of the procedural accoutrements of Section 206(3) and Rule 206(3)-3T, adopted in another
context,” has resulted in the Exception being unreasonably limited and unworkable in practice. 161
SIFMA also commented that the Exception’s requirements for the alternative under proposed
paragraph .14(d)(2) of the Supplementary Material to obtain additional transaction-bytransaction consent undermines the utility of obtaining advance written consent, and presents
challenging issues of documentation and recordkeeping. SIFMA stated that it would present
unworkable challenges to the municipal advisor and municipal entities that may seek to execute
ordinary course transactions “several times per day or more.” SIFMA stated that the procedural
159

See letters from BDA dated December 1, 2015; FSI dated December 1, 2015; GFOA
dated December 1, 2015; NAMA dated December 7, 2015; SIFMA dated December 1,
2015; and Spencer Wright dated December 16, 2015.

160

See NAMA letter dated December 7, 2015.

161

See SIFMA letter dated December 1, 2015.

63

requirements included in proposed paragraph .14(d)(2), in the context of Advisers Act Rule
206(3)-3T,162 have discouraged broker-dealers from relying on that rule and have limited its
ultimate utility.
BDA acknowledged that the Exception has addressed what it termed “marginal
considerations surrounding the principal transactions ban,” but, in its view, an exception would
not be “meaningful and useful” unless the municipal advisor could “provide[] advice to the
municipal entity in connection with the issuance of municipal securities the proceeds of which
are being invested.” 163 BDA also commented that the consent and disclosure requirements are
too burdensome to be useful, and, as a practical matter, the provisions would require transactionby-transaction written consent since the alternative (to obtaining such consents) is too extensive
to make it worth a dealer’s effort. BDA recognized that the MSRB followed the principles in the
investment adviser context, but believed that the approach “does not take into consideration the
vast differences between brokerage operations and investment advisory operations.”
In response to these comments, the MSRB first explained that the issues raised by the
Exception arise with respect to a limited universe of municipal advisory activities – namely,
advising with respect to the investment of proceeds of municipal securities or municipal escrow
investments.164 Next, the MSRB explained that advising with respect to the investment of
municipal bond proceeds or municipal escrow investments falls under the municipal advisor
regulatory regime only if no exclusion or exemption is available. The MSRB stated:

162

17 CFR 275.206(3)-3T.

163

See BDA letter dated December 1, 2015.

164

See December Response Letter.

64

If the firm is an investment adviser registered under the Advisers
Act, the giving of investment advice on the investment of proceeds
of municipal securities and municipal escrow investments can be
excluded. If the municipal entity makes a qualifying request for
proposals (“RFP”) or request for qualifications (“RFQ”) on the
investment of proceeds of municipal securities or on municipal
escrow investments, or a qualifying mini-RFP or mini-RFQ, the
giving of advice in response can be exempt. If the municipal entity
relies on the advice of an independent registered municipal advisor
(“IRMA”) with respect to the same aspects of the investment of
proceeds of municipal securities or municipal escrow investments,
the firm’s giving of advice can be exempt, subject to certain
procedural requirements. Additionally, if a firm selling investments
provides general information but no SEC-defined “advice,” then
the firm need not rely on any exclusion or exemption at all. 165
The MSRB explained that it is generally only beyond all of these scenarios that a firm could
be subject to Proposed Rule G-42 and the principal transaction ban based on the providing
of advice on the investment of bond proceeds or municipal escrow investments.
The MSRB further responded to commenters’ concerns by stating that it crafted the
Exception to the principal transaction ban drawing on Section 206(3) of the Advisers Act 166
and the IA Rule. The MSRB explained that its approach was influenced by a number of
considerations, and stated that highly important among them were the recurring urgings by
commenters during the development of Proposed Rule G-42 that the MSRB look to the
regulatory regime applicable to investment advisers that provides such advisers the ability to
engage in principal transactions with their clients, subject to requirements that include
providing full disclosure and obtaining informed consent. The MSRB also noted that the IA
Rule has been consistently considered by representatives of the industry, including SIFMA,
to be operating as intended, well protecting investors, and extensively relied upon.
165

See id. (citations omitted).

166

15 U.S.C. 80b-6(3).

65

GFOA expressed a concern that the procedural requirements of the Exception would be
too complex or burdensome and render the relief intended to be granted “illusory.”167 GFOA
stated that this has proved to be the case with similar requirements that apply to principal
transactions by investment advisers. GFOA acknowledged, however, that in some respects it
would “need feedback from dealers before reaching [a] conclusion” regarding the workability of
the Exception, recognizing that its members are, of course, not broker-dealers.
In response to GFOA’s comments, the MSRB stated that it is clear from repeated
commentary by representatives of broker-dealers and supporting data, that similar provisions for
investment advisers have been manageable and relied upon extensively, providing an ample basis
to believe that the similar approach in proposed paragraph .14(d)(2) of the Supplementary
Material will be useful and workable for a significant portion of those firms that wish to use an
option under the Exception.
GFOA asked whether the consent required to be obtained under proposed paragraph
.14(d)(1) of the Supplementary Material may be oral as opposed to written. The MSRB
responded that oral consent would be sufficient under proposed paragraph .14(d)(1). 168
GFOA also asked whether certain communications that would be required to be made in
writing under the Exception may be made through email. In response, the MSRB stated that such
communications may be made by email, provided the municipal advisor satisfies the same

167

See GFOA letter dated December 1, 2015.

168

See December Response Letter.

66

procedural conditions that the SEC applies to an investment adviser when communicating with
customers via email as set forth in SEC guidance regarding the use of electronic media. 169
GFOA asked whether a broker-dealer that has provided advice to a municipal entity
based on one of the exclusions or exemptions to the definition of “municipal advisor” (e.g., the
underwriter exclusion) would be able to sell investments of bond proceeds to that municipal
entity as principal, assuming that the requirements of proposed paragraph .14 are met. The
MSRB stated that it assumes that, although not stated explicitly by GFOA, the firm in this
scenario also would be providing advice on the investment of bond proceeds, without the
availability of an exclusion or exemption for that advice. Otherwise, as the MSRB explained, the
firm would not be a municipal advisor to the municipal entity and subject to Rule G-42 and the
principal transaction ban. A firm in this scenario would not be specifically prohibited by the
principal transaction ban from selling investments of bonds proceeds to a municipal entity as
principal, assuming all of the limitations and conditions of proposed paragraph .14 are met.
GFOA asked why a broker-dealer that is a municipal advisor must, under MSRB Rule G3,170 pass the municipal advisor representative professional qualifications examination (Series
50) to sell “Treasuries, agencies, and corporate debt securities when bond proceeds are invested,
while the Series 7 suffices for the same broker to sell the same securities to a municipal entity
169

See id. (citing Securities Act Release No. 7288 (May 9, 1996), 61 FR 24644 (May 15,
1996), SEC Interpretation of Use of Electronic Media by Broker-Dealers, Transfer
Agents, and Investment Advisers for Delivery of Information (listing Section 206(3) as a
provision to which the interpretation applies), available at:
https://www.sec.gov/rules/interp/33-7288.txt).

170

MSRB Rule G-3(d)(ii)(A) provides that: “Every municipal advisor representative shall
take and pass the Municipal Advisor Representative Qualification Examination [(also
known as the Series 50 Examination)] prior to being qualified as a municipal advisor
representative. The passing grade shall be determined by the Board.”

67

when the funds invested are not bond proceeds.” In response to this question, the MSRB
explained the definition of “municipal advisor” in the SEC Final Rule and recounted the purpose
of the rulemaking on Rule G-3, on professional qualification requirements. 171
In response to Amendment No. 2, SIFMA expressed a concern that the Exception would
be available, according to proposed paragraph .14(a) of the Supplementary Material, only to a
firm that is a registered broker-dealer and only for accounts subject to the Exchange Act, and the
rules thereunder, and the rules of self-regulatory organization(s) of which it is a member. 172
SIFMA stated that the registration requirement is “unnecessary” and that the policy rationale for
requiring the relevant account to be subject to Exchange Act regulation is “unclear.” SIFMA
recognized that the SEC included these same requirements in the IA Rule, but commented that
these requirements only exist in that rule due to the historical context in which the decision in
Financial Planning Association v. SEC (“FPA”)173 effectively required certain brokerage
accounts to be treated as advisory accounts. SIFMA suggested that the Exception should be
available to a firm that relies on an exemption from broker-dealer registration, such as a bank. In
response to SIFMA’s comment, the MSRB stated that the SEC’s adopting release for the IA Rule
indicates that, although historical context gave the SEC occasion to consider the IA Rule, the
SEC also explained that:
[A] principal consideration in including the requirements was that
broker-dealers and their employees “must comply with the
comprehensive set of Commission and self-regulatory organization

171

See December Response Letter.

172

See SIFMA letter dated December 1, 2015.

173

Financial Planning Association v. SEC, 482 F.3d 481 (D.C. Cir. 2007).

68

sales practice and best execution rules that apply to the relationship
between a broker-dealer and its customer . . . .” 174
The MSRB stated that it similarly considers it necessary that transactions in reliance on the
Exception be executed under this comprehensive set of investor protections. In response to
SIFMA’s concern regarding banks, the MSRB notes that the SEC has provided an exemption
from the municipal advisor definition for banks providing advice on multiple subjects, which
could mean that a bank engaging in particular principal transactions would not be subject to
Proposed Rule G-42 at all.
FSI and SIFMA expressed concerns regarding the requirement, as part of the option
under proposed paragraph .14(d)(2), that the municipal advisor provide its client with an annual
summary statement. 175 SIFMA commented that the annual disclosure requirement and the
special confirmation disclosure requirements are unwieldy and duplicative. 176 SIFMA also
commented that both of these would require firms to implement costly operational changes.
SIFMA further commented that it is unclear that municipal entity clients would benefit from
these disclosures, having previously provided (and not having revoked) their consent to principal
174

See December Response Letter (citing Advisers Act Release No. 2653 (September 24,
2007), at 28, 72 FR 55022, at 55029 (September 28, 2007) (Temporary Rule Regarding
Principal Trades with Certain Advisory Clients); see also Advisers Act Release No. 3128
(December 28, 2010), at 22, 75 FR 82236, at 82241 (December 30, 2010) (Temporary
Rule Regarding Principal Trades with Certain Advisory Clients) (“The condition that
advisers seeking to rely on the rule must also be registered as broker-dealers and that each
account with respect to which an adviser seeks to rely on the rule must be a brokerage
account subject to the Exchange Act, and the rules thereunder, and the rules of the selfregulatory organization(s) of which it is a member, reflect what we believe is an important
element of our balancing between easing regulatory burdens (by affording advisers an
alternative means of compliance with section 206(3) of the Act) and meeting our investor
protection objectives.”)).

175

See letters from FSI dated December 1, 2015 and SIFMA dated December 1, 2015.

176

See SIFMA letter dated December 1, 2015.

69

transactions, and receiving the ordinary confirmation disclosure required under Exchange Act
Rule 10b-10 that would disclose the capacity in which the broker-dealer acted.
The MSRB first noted that a municipal advisor that considers the alternative provided
under proposed paragraph .14(d)(1) comparatively more cost-effective, may make transactionby-transaction written disclosure and obtain written or oral consent under that provision and not
be subject to the additional procedural requirements under proposed paragraph.14(d)(2) to make
use of the Exception.177 Second, the MSRB explained that the annual summary statement
requirement is designed to ensure that clients receive a periodic record of the principal trading
activity in their accounts and are afforded an opportunity to assess the frequency with which
their adviser engages in such trades. It stated that when the requirement was adopted as part of
the IA Rule in 2007, the concept of an annual summary of transactions involving particular
conflicts of interest was not novel, as it was derived from the cross-trade rule under the Advisers
Act. The MSRB stated its belief that an annual summary of all principal transactions, which are
executed subject to conflicts of interest where certain disclosures have been made and consents
obtained, would be particularly beneficial to officials of municipal entities, including newly
elected or appointed officials who, upon their election or appointment, may be required to review
thoroughly and expeditiously the municipal entity’s prior transactions and relationships with
financial intermediaries to determine whether the same course with the same intermediaries
should continue.
The MSRB also responded that the confirmation disclosure requirement, like the similar
requirement under the IA Rule, is designed to ensure that clients are given a written notice and
reminder of each transaction that the municipal advisor effects on a principal basis and that
177

See December Response Letter.

70

conflicts of interest are inherent in such transactions. The MSRB explained that, like under the
IA Rule, a firm relying on proposed paragraph .14(d)(2) need not send a duplicate confirmation
and may include additional required disclosures on a confirmation otherwise sent to a customer
with respect to a particular principal transaction.
BDA commented that the option under proposed paragraph .14(d)(2) would not be
meaningful or useful in part because, under proposed paragraph.14(d)(2)(A), neither the firm nor
any affiliate would be permitted to be, at the time of a sale, an underwriter of the security. 178 The
MSRB responded that it believes this is an important municipal entity protection measure in
scenarios where the municipal advisor is not making transaction-by-transaction written
disclosure.179
SIFMA and FSI objected to the exclusion from the Exception of transactions in
connection with municipal escrow investments, and suggested that the Exception be extended.180
The MSRB explained that the Exception does not so extend because the MSRB believes this is
an area of heightened risk where, historically, significant abuses have occurred. 181
SIFMA commented that the Exception should extend to the purchase and sale of money
market instruments, commercial paper, certificates of deposit and other deposit instruments.182 In
SIFMA’s view, there is no municipal entity protection reason to exclude them. Similarly,

178

See BDA letter dated December 1, 2015.

179

See December Response Letter.

180

See letters from FSI dated December 1, 2015 and SIFMA dated December 1, 2015.

181

See December Response Letter.

182

See SIFMA letter dated December 1, 2015.

71

Spencer Wright commented that a ban on offering money market securities would adversely
affect governments and limit their investment choices. 183
The MSRB responded that the designated class of securities for purposes of the
Exception is intended to address comments previously submitted that an absolute ban on
principal transactions in fixed income securities, which are frequently sold by broker-dealers as
principal or riskless principal, would be particularly problematic and such a ban would impose a
substantial burden on municipal entities. 184 The MSRB also explained that municipal entities
seeking to purchase or sell money market instruments and receive related advice would have
sufficient access and flexibility to choose among various providers. In addition, the MSRB
stated that it limited the fixed income securities for which the Exception is available to generally
relatively liquid fixed income securities trading in relatively transparent markets, in order to raise
significantly less risk for municipal entity clients. The MSRB does not believe it is appropriate to
amend it to include this group of fixed income securities prior to implementing the Exception
and reviewing its impact on the market.
SIFMA commented that it was unclear whether the Exception would extend to the
affiliates of a municipal advisor, and that there does not appear to be any reason to permit a
municipal advisor (if also a broker-dealer) to benefit from the Exception, and not similarly allow
an affiliate (if also a broker-dealer, or if exempt from registration as a broker-dealer) to benefit
from the Exception.185 In response, the MSRB stated that the language of proposed paragraph .14
of the Supplementary Material makes clear that the use of the Exception would be limited to the
183

See Spencer Wright letter dated December 16, 2015.

184

See December Response Letter.

185

See SIFMA letter dated December 1, 2015.

72

municipal advisor and would not extend to its affiliates. 186 The MSRB explained that the
Exception was designed to provide municipal entities access to services from known financial
intermediaries with whom they have a relationship, and simultaneously to address and mitigate
certain conflicts of interest when a single entity would provide advice that constitutes municipal
advisory activity to its municipal entity client and also engage in a principal transaction with
such client.
SIFMA, in response to Amendment No. 2, commented that it would be impractical for a
firm relying on the Exception to comply with the conflicts disclosure and relationship
documentation requirements of proposed sections (b) and (c), particularly on a transaction-bytransaction basis.187 In response, the MSRB stated that the duties and obligations of a municipal
advisor under Proposed Rule G-42 regarding the disclosures of conflicts of interest and other
information and municipal advisory relationship documentation should not be waived or
diminished because a municipal advisor uses the Exception under proposed paragraph .14. 188 The
MSRB further explained that the ban, to which the Exception relates, only would apply in the
case of clients that are municipal entities, meaning the disclosures and documentation at issue
will always be in support of the fulfillment of a fiduciary duty. In addition, the MSRB stated that
the proposed requirements under proposed sections (b) and (c) to provide disclosure of conflicts
of interest and other information to a client and document the municipal advisory relationship,
respectively, are separate and distinct requirements from the disclosures and consent conditions
in proposed paragraph .14.
186

See December Response Letter.

187

See SIFMA letter dated December 1, 2015.

188

See December Response Letter.

73

L. Consistency with Statutory Standards
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, several commenters expressed the view that
the proposed rule change was inconsistent with certain provisions of the Exchange Act. 189
Cooperman, NAMA and SIFMA commented that the proposed rule change is inconsistent with
Section 15B(b)(2)(L)(iv) of the Exchange Act,190 which requires that the MSRB not impose a
regulatory burden on small municipal advisors that is not necessary or appropriate in the public
interest and for the protection of investors, and municipal entities, provided that there is robust
protection against fraud. Cooperman suggested that the MSRB could ease the burden on smaller
municipal advisors by providing more specific guidance as to the scope of the requirements and
restrictions in the proposed rule change. NAMA believed that as a result of the proposed rule
change, municipal advisors would have to devote significant time and resources to establish
procedures to comply with what it termed “vague and broad” rules. In NAMA’s view this will be
particularly burdensome for smaller municipal advisors. SIFMA also commented that municipal
entity clients (in particular small municipal entity clients) would be acutely and adversely
affected by the proposed rule change because, in its view, the number of municipal advisors with
which the municipal entity could engage would be limited to the point that the municipal entity
would not have adequate access to a municipal advisor or would only have the requisite access at
an unnecessarily high cost to the municipal entity client.

189

See letters from Cooperman dated September 9, 2015; NAMA dated September 11, 2015;
and SIFMA dated September 11, 2015.

190

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(L)(iv).

74

In response to Amendment No. 2, NAMA subsequently commented that it “supports the
current proposed Rule and urges the SEC to approve it in its current form without further erosion
of the important principal transaction ban that is in place to protect investors.” 191
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, SIFMA stated that Proposed Rule G-42 was
inconsistent with Section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Exchange Act 192 as to the requirement that an
MSRB rule not “impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate.”

193

In its

view, the proposed rule change is overly burdensome, overly broad, introduces unnecessary
costs, and would lead to an inappropriate reduction in competition in the municipal advisory
marketplace. In addition, SIFMA indicated that it has observed municipal advisors exiting the
municipal advisory business in anticipation of the implementation of the proposed rule change
and that this has already resulted in reduced competition in the municipal advisory industry.
SIFMA stated that the proposed rule change, in its view, would result in less competition in the
municipal advisory industry, increased costs to issuers and fewer services available to issuers of
municipal securities. SIFMA also commented that the MSRB could “achieve the same objectives
without burdening competition” by revising Proposed Rule G-42 consistent with SIFMA’s prior
comments.
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, Cooperman, GFOA, ICI and SIFMA
questioned the adequacy of the MSRB’s economic analysis of the proposed rule change. 194
191

See NAMA letter dated December 7, 2015.

192

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(C).

193

See SIFMA letter dated September 11, 2015.

194

See letters from Cooperman dated September 9, 2015; GFOA dated September 14, 2015;
ICI dated September 11, 2015; and SIFMA dated September 11, 2015.

75

Cooperman believed that the MSRB did not follow its own policy to conduct an economic
analysis with respect to Proposed Rule G-42. Cooperman also believed that the MSRB did not
gather data on the economic impact of the regulatory regime under Proposed Rule G-42. Rather,
according to Cooperman, the MSRB reached its conclusions based on “unsubstantiated broad
brush economic consequences.” 195 GFOA and SIFMA similarly stated their views that the
MSRB provided no economic analysis in concluding that the benefits of Proposed Rule G-42
outweigh the potential costs. ICI commented that the MSRB failed to analyze the potential
economic impact of, and asked if there were an unreasonable or unnecessary burden in
connection with, the proposed requirement that a municipal advisor undertake a reasonable
investigation to determine that it is not basing any recommendation on materially inaccurate or
incomplete information, which includes information provided by the municipal advisor’s client.
In response to the comments regarding the MSRB’s economic analysis, the MSRB noted
in its December Response Letter that throughout the development of the proposed rule change
the MSRB rigorously followed its Policy on the Use of Economic Analysis in MSRB
Rulemaking (“MSRB Policy”). 196 In particular, the MSRB stated that it sought relevant data
from industry participants and commenters on multiple occasions in accordance with the MSRB
Policy’s reference to the SEC’s Current Guidance on Economic Analysis in SEC Rulemakings
(“SEC Guidance”),197 which “stresses the need to attempt to quantify anticipated costs and

195

See Cooperman letter dated September 9, 2015.

196

See MSRB, Policy on the Use of Economic Analysis in MSRB Rulemaking,
http://msrb.org/About-MSRB/Financial-and-Other-Information/FinancialPolicies/Economic-Analysis-Policy.aspx.

197

See SEC Memorandum Re: Current Guidance on Economic Analysis in SEC
Rulemakings (dated March 16, 2012),
https://www.sec.gov/divisions/riskfin/rsfi_guidance_econ_analy_secrulemaking.pdf.
76

benefits . . . ” (emphasis added) but notes that “data is necessary” to do so. Despite these
requests, the MSRB stated that it received no data - imperfect or otherwise - or other
information, which would support any additional quantification of the impact of the proposed
rule change. In the proposed rule change, the MSRB noted this lack of data to explain why
further quantification could not be supported. 198 In the absence of relevant data, consistent with
the MSRB Policy and SEC Guidance, the MSRB noted that it conducted a qualitative evaluation
of the benefits and costs of the proposed rule change based significantly on the SEC’s analysis of
the municipal advisor market included in the SEC’s Final Rule.199 In its analysis, the MSRB
concluded that the market for municipal advisors likely would remain competitive despite the
potential exit of some municipal advisors (including small entity municipal advisors),
consolidation of municipal advisors or lack of new entrants into the market.
The MSRB believes that commenters’ observations that, as a result of the proposed rule
change, some municipal advisors may have exited the market and some issuers may be
experiencing less competition do not provide a basis for revising the MSRB’s prior assessments
of the potential impacts of the proposed rule change for several reasons. 200 First, commenters
have not provided data to support their observations. Second, to the extent municipal advisors
have exited the market, commenters have not provided evidence to support a conclusion that
they have done so in anticipation of a proposed rule change rather than, for example, in reaction
to the Dodd-Frank Act itself, the subsequent registration requirements, or the professional
198

See Proposing Release, 80 FR 26752, at 26784 (“No commenter provided specific cost
information or data that would support an improved estimate of the costs of compliance.”).

199

See SEC Final Rule, 78 FR 67467, at 67608.

200

See December Response Letter.

77

qualification requirements, all of which were properly included in the baseline against which the
impacts of the proposed rule change were assessed. Finally, the commenters have not provided
evidence that the exit of any municipal advisor has in fact decreased competition, increased cost
or resulted in reduced advisory services.
With regard to the impact of the proposed rule change on small municipal advisors, the
MSRB discussed the potential burdens on smaller advisory firms at length and concluded that the
likely costs represented only those necessary to achieve the purposes of the Exchange Act. 201
The MSRB is not aware of alternatives—and commenters have not proposed any—that would
reduce the burden on small municipal advisor firms while achieving the same regulatory
objectives, including what the MSRB believes is the appropriate balance between principlesbased provisions and more specifically prescriptive provisions.
Also in response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, several commenters indicated their
view that the proposed rule change was inconsistent with the Exchange Act in connection with
the principal transaction ban if such ban remained as proposed, without any exceptions or
modifications. The MSRB, in Amendment No. 2, addressed the primary concerns by adding the
Exception. The MSRB believes that the Exception is responsive to the commenters’ concerns
that, in connection with the proposed ban, Proposed Rule G-42 is inconsistent with the Exchange
Act.202
201

See Proposing Release, 80 FR 26752, at 26759-60 (statement on burden on competition);
see also id. at 26784-85 (economic analysis).

202

See letters from BDA dated September 11, 2015; FSI dated September 11, 2015; Millar
Jiles dated September 11, 2015; SIFMA dated September 11, 2015; and Zions dated
September 10, 2015, containing statements that the Proposed Rule, with the proposed
principal transaction ban, is inconsistent with one or more of the following Exchange Act
provisions: Section 15B(b)(2)(L); Section 15B(b)(2)(L)(i); Section 15B(b)(2)(C); and
Section 3(f).
78

M. Relationship between MSRB Rule G-23 and the Prohibition on Principal Transactions
In response to the Proposing Release, BDA and NAMA stated that the reference to MSRB
Rule G-23 in paragraph .08 of the Supplementary Material was unnecessary or enhances the
possible conflict between Proposed Rule G-42 and Rule G-23.203 BDA interpreted the prohibition
in Rule G-23 as subsumed by the more stringent provisions of Proposed Rule G-42.204 NAMA
believed the additional activities or principal transactions that should be prohibited under
Proposed Rule G-42 (namely advice with respect to municipal derivatives or the investment of
proceeds) don’t conflict with Rule G-23, but merely supplement the prohibitions in Rule G-23 by
extending the list of prohibitions found in Rule G-23.205
In response to comments, the MSRB stated that the effect of the final sentence in proposed
paragraph .08 is intentionally quite limited. 206 The MSRB clarified that as to a person acting in
compliance with Rule G-23, the final sentence in proposed paragraph .08 provides an exception,
but only to the specific prohibition on principal transactions in Proposed Rule G-42(e)(ii). The
MSRB stated that proposed subsection (e)(ii) would not prohibit a type of principal transaction
that is already addressed and prohibited, to a certain extent, under Rule G-23, although other
provisions of Rule G-42 must be considered as they do apply to the same principal transaction.
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, NAMA reiterated its comments that the
reference to Rule G-23 should be deleted from proposed paragraph .08 because the MSRB’s

203

See letters from BDA dated May 29, 2015 and NAMA dated May 29, 2015.

204

See BDA letter dated May 29, 2015.

205

See NAMA letter dated May 29, 2015.

206

See August Response Letter.

79

statements regarding that provision in its August Response Letter were unnecessarily
complicated.207 In addition, NAMA believed such statements raise a question that the MSRB
may believe that conduct permitted by Rule G-23 would be otherwise prohibited by Proposed
Rule G-42 (apart from Proposed Rule G-42(e)(ii)).
In response to NAMA’s comments, the MSRB reiterated its earlier response regarding the
limited effect of the reference to G-23 in paragraph .08 of the Supplementary Material. 208 The
MSRB explained that where certain conduct is not prohibited under Rule G-23 (as an exception to
the general prohibition therein), Proposed Rule G-42(e)(ii) (the principal transaction provision)
alone would not prohibit such conduct. The MSRB stated that nevertheless, other parts of
Proposed Rule G-42 and statutory provisions must be considered to determine whether the
conduct, although not prohibited by Rule G-23 and not specifically prohibited under Proposed
Rule G-42(e)(ii), would violate another provision of Proposed Rule G-42 or other applicable
MSRB rules or other applicable laws or regulations. 209 In this respect, the type of principal
transaction excepted by the final sentence of paragraph .08 from Proposed Rule G-42(e)(ii) is no
different than any other principal transaction that is not specifically prohibited by subsection
(e)(ii). The MSRB restated that merely because a principal transaction is not specifically
prohibited by the principal transaction ban does not necessarily mean it is permitted.
N. Request for Prospective Application of Proposed Rule G-42 Requirements
ICI and SIFMA requested the proposed rule change only apply prospectively to municipal
advisory relationships entered into, or recommendations of municipal securities transactions or
207

See NAMA letter dated September 11, 2015.

208

See December Response Letter.

209

See Proposing Release, 80 FR 26752, at 26782-83; see also August Response Letter.

80

municipal financial products to an existing municipal entity or obligated person client made, after
the effective date of the proposed rule change. 210 ICI noted this was relevant with respect to 529
plans “due to the nature of the advisor’s relationship with the plan and duration of existing 529
plan contracts.” 211 SIFMA argued that reviewing and likely supplementing the documentation for
all existing municipal advisory relationships will be overly burdensome for both municipal
advisors and their clients. 212
The MSRB responded that the proposed rule would not require the creation of new
contractual relationships or the modification of existing contracts or agreements between
municipal advisors and their clients when the rule takes effect. 213 It clarified that if municipal
advisors have already delivered documentation meeting some or all of the requirements of
proposed section (c), on documentation of municipal advisory relationship, then municipal
advisors would be able to rely on such documents to satisfy some or all of their obligatio ns under
section (c). The MSRB also stated that documents in place prior to the effective date that are in
some way deficient are not required to be withdrawn but may be supplemented by the municipal
advisor by the delivery of additional documentation that satisfies any remaining requirements of
the proposed rule. The MSRB also clarified that requirements of section (d), on recommendations
and review of recommendations of other parties, would apply only to recommendations made or
reviewed after the proposed rule change becomes effective. Finally, the MSRB stated that
municipal advisors will become subject to the applicable standards of conduct with regard to all
210

See letters from ICI dated May 29, 2015 and SIFMA dated May 28, 2015.

211

See ICI letter dated May 29, 2015.

212

See SIFMA letter dated May 28, 2015.

213

See August Response Letter.

81

of their municipal advisory activities, regardless of whether the relevant engagement began prior
to the effective date of the rule.
In response to Amendment No. 1 or the OIP, ICI reiterated its comment that the proposed
rule should only apply prospectively when a municipal advisor either enters into a new advisory
relationship with a municipal client or when it recommends a new municipal securities transaction
or new municipal financial product to an existing municipal client. 214 ICI recommended that the
MSRB further clarify “how each of the new obligations the rule and its Supplementary Material
impose on municipal advisors will apply to existing contracts, relationships, and municipal
advisory activities.”
The MSRB responded stating that all provisions of the proposed rule would, if approved,
apply only prospectively. 215 As previously stated by the MSRB, the requirements of the proposed
rule, including its Supplementary Material, would apply prospectively to any activity that is
within the definition in the proposed rule of “municipal advisory activities” if that activity is
engaged in on or after the date of implementation (the “effective date”) of Rule G-42. The MSRB
further clarified that the proposed rule will apply to all municipal advisory relationships that are in
existence on or after the effective date, regardless of when a municipal advisor and client may
have entered into a particular relationship. The MSRB also noted that in accordance with MSRB
Rule G-44 (Supervisory and Compliance Obligations of Municipal Advisors), which is currently
in effect, on the effective date of Rule G-42, if approved, each municipal advisor would be
required to have established written supervisory procedures reasonably designed to ensure that the

214

See ICI letter dated September 11, 2015.

215

See December Response Letter.

82

municipal advisor and its associated persons are in compliance with Rule G-42 on and after its
effective date.
O. Use of Supplementary Material in Proposed Rule G-42
PFM suggested that all supplementary material be removed and moved to separate written
interpretative guidance to afford the subjects more “fittingly robust regulatory guidance.” 216 PFM
was concerned that the supplementary material which does not allow for “more succinct
definitional direction” would lead to inconsistent application by registrants and “the potential for
unintended consequences as a matter of the statute itself.” In response to the comment, the
MSRB stated that the structure of the proposed rule is intentionally consistent with the structure
used by FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations and the MSRB has not to date observed
the types of issues or concerns raised by PFM.217
IV.

Discussion and Commission Findings
The Commission has carefully considered the proposed rule change, as modified by

Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2, as well as the comment letters received and the MSRB
Response Letters. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change, as amended by
Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2, is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the
rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the MSRB.
In particular, the proposed rule change, as amended, is consistent with Sections 15B(b)(2),
15B(b)(2)(C), and 15B(b)(2)(L)(i) of the Act. Section 15B(b)(2) of the Act provides that the
MSRB shall propose and adopt rules to effect the purposes of that title with respect to transactions
in municipal securities effected by brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers and advice
216

See PFM letter dated May 29, 2015.

217

See August Response Letter.

83

provided to or on behalf of municipal entities or obligated persons by brokers, dealers, municipal
securities dealers, and municipal advisors with respect to municipal financial products, the
issuance of municipal securities, and solicitations of municipal entities or obligated persons
undertaken by brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers and municipal advisors.218 Section
15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act requires that the MSRB’s rules be designed to prevent fraudulent and
manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster
cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing
information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in municipal securities and municipal
financial products, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open
market in municipal securities and municipal financial products, and, in general, to protect
investors, municipal entities, obligated persons, and the public interest. 219 Section 15B(b)(2)(L)(i)
of the Act requires, with respect to municipal advisors, the MSRB to prescribe means reasonably
designed to prevent acts, practices, and courses of business as are not consistent with a municipal
advisor’s fiduciary duty to its clients. 220
The proposed rule change, as amended, is consistent with Sections 15B(b)(2),
15B(b)(2)(C), and 15B(b)(2)(L)(i) of the Act because it establishes standards of conduct and
duties for municipal advisors when engaging in municipal advisory activities. Specifically, the
proposed rule change provides that each municipal advisor in the conduct of its municipal
advisory activities for an obligated person client is subject to a duty of care. The proposed rule
change also provides that each municipal advisor to a municipal entity client is subject to a
218

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2).

219

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(C).

220

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(L)(i).

84

fiduciary duty that includes a duty of loyalty and a duty of care. Paragraphs .01 and .02 of the
Supplementary Material provide guidance on the duty of care and the duty of loyalty,
respectively, to assist municipal advisors in complying with such duties. In addition, the proposed
rule change includes means to help prevent breaches of these duties by municipal advisors,
including the requirements for the information that must be included in the documentation of the
municipal advisory relationship; specified activities (such as certain principal transactions and
excessive compensation) that would be explicitly prohibited; and disclosure requirements that
must accompany a municipal advisor’s recommendation regarding a municipal security or a
municipal financial product. The Commission believes these requirements are reasonably
designed to prevent acts, practices and courses of business as are not consistent with a municipal
advisor’s fiduciary duty.
The proposed rule change, as amended, would help protect municipal entities and
obligated persons by promoting higher ethical and professional standards of the municipal
advisors they employ to assist with issuances of municipal securities and transactions in
municipal financial products. By requiring municipal advisors to provide detailed disclosures of
material conflicts of interest and certain other information prior to or upon the establishment of
the municipal advisory relationship, the proposed rule change will help ensure municipal entity
and obligated person clients have access to sufficient information to make meaningful choices,
based on the merits of the municipal advisor. The Commission believes the disclosure
requirements also could incentivize municipal advisors not to engage in misconduct. 221 In
addition, the suitability requirements in section (d) of the proposed rule and the related
221

See also SEC Final Rule, 78 FR 67467, at 67602, 67606, 67618 and 67622 (discussing the
disclosure requirements of the municipal advisor registration regime and incentives of
municipal advisors not to engage in misconduct).

85

Supplementary Material will help protect municipal entities and obligated persons from the
potentially costly consequences of transactions undertaken based on unsuitable recommendations.
The proposed amendments to Rule G-8(h) will assist in the enforcement of Proposed Rule G-42
and will allow organizations that examine municipal advisors to more precisely monitor and
promote compliance with the proposed rule change.
The Commission also finds that the proposed rule change, as amended, is consistent with
Section 15B(b)(2)(L)(iv) of the Act, in that it does not impose a regulatory burden on small
municipal advisors that is not necessary or appropriate in the public interest and for the protection
of investors, municipal entities, and obligated persons, provided that there is robust protection of
investors against fraud.222 While the proposed rule change would affect all municipal advisors,
including small municipal advisors, it is a necessary and appropriate regulatory burden in order to
promote compliance with the fiduciary duty and the duty of care. Municipal entities and
obligated persons will have access to more information about municipal advisors and will be able
to make better, more informed choices with lower search costs. The availability of additional,
objective information and the fostering of merit-based competition among municipal advisors
should lead to enhanced issuer protections and improved outcomes. These improvements likely
would enhance investor confidence in the integrity of the municipal securities market. While the
proposed rule change would burden some small municipal advisors, the Commission believes that
such burden is outweighed by these benefits. In addition, the proposed rule change will provide a
benefit to all municipal advisors, including small municipal advisors, that could otherwise face
uncertainty regarding the duties and standards of conduct required in order to comply with the
relevant provisions of the Exchange Act.
222

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(L)(iv).

86

In addition, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change, as amended, is consistent
with Section 15B(b)(2)(G) of the Act which provides that the MSRB’s rules shall prescribe
records to be made and kept by municipal advisors and the periods for which such records shall
be preserved.223 The proposed rule change, through the proposed amendments to Rule G-8(h),
would require that a municipal advisor make and keep records of any document created by the
municipal advisor that was material to its review of a recommendation by another party or that
memorializes the basis for any determination as to suitability. Existing Rule G-9(h) would require
that the books and records required by the proposed rule change be preserved for a period of not
less than five years.
In approving the proposed rule change, as amended, the Commission has considered the
proposed rule’s impact on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. 224 The Commission
believes the proposed rule change takes into account competitive concerns that could arise as a
result of the costs associated with complying with the standards of conduct and duties that could
lead some municipal advisors to exit the market, curtail their activities or consolidate with other
firms. The MSRB has made efforts to minimize costs in response to commenters including: (i)
narrowing the scope of the conflicts that must be disclosed, (ii) specifying a less burdensome
method for disclosing conflicts and disciplinary actions and documenting the municipal advisory
relationship, (iii) clarifying the obligations owed by municipal advisors to obligated persons, (iv)
including a limited safe harbor to relieve municipal advisors that inadvertently engage in
municipal advisory activities from compliance with section (b) of Proposed Rule G-42, on
disclosure of conflicts of interest and other information, and section (c) of Proposed Rule G-42,
223

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(G).

224

15 U.S.C. 78c(f).

87

on documentation of the municipal advisory relationship, and (v) allowing certain municipal
advisors to engage in principal transactions in a range of fixed income securities for the
investment of bond proceeds. Moreover, the Commission continues to believe “that the market
for municipal advisory services is likely to remain competitive despite the potential exit of
municipal advisors, consolidation of municipal advisors, or lack of new entrants into the
market.”225
As noted above, the Commission received 35 comment letters on the filing. The
Commission believes that the MSRB, through its responses and through proposed changes in
Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2, has addressed commenters’ concerns.
For the reasons noted above, including those discussed in the MSRB Response Letters, the

225

SEC Final Rule, 78 FR 67467, at 67608.

88

Commission believes that the proposed rule change, as amended by Amendment No. 1 and
Amendment No. 2, is consistent with the Act.
V.

Conclusion
IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act,226 that the

proposed rule change (SR-MSRB-2015-03), as modified by Amendment No. 1 and Amendment
No. 2, be, and hereby is, approved.
For the Commission, pursuant to delegated authority. 227

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

226

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2).

227

17 CFR 200.30-3(a)(12).
89

