Conformed to Federal Register version.
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 240, 242, and 249
[Release No. 34-73639; File No. S7-01-13]
RIN 3235-AL43
Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Final rule and form; final rule amendment; technical amendment.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) is adopting new
Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity (“Regulation SCI”) under the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and conforming amendments to Regulation ATS under the
Exchange Act. Regulation SCI will apply to certain self-regulatory organizations (including
registered clearing agencies), alternative trading systems (“ATSs”), plan processors, and exempt
clearing agencies (collectively, “SCI entities”), and will require these SCI entities to comply with
requirements with respect to the automated systems central to the performance of their regulated
activities.
DATES:

Effective date:

February 3, 2015

Compliance date:
IV.F of this release.

The applicable compliance dates are discussed in Section

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David Liu, Senior Special Counsel, Office
of Market Supervision, at (312) 353-6265, Heidi Pilpel, Senior Special Counsel, Office of
Market Supervision, at (202) 551-5666, Sara Hawkins, Special Counsel, Office of Market
Supervision, at (202) 551-5523, Yue Ding, Special Counsel, Office of Market Supervision, at
(202) 551-5842, David Garcia, Special Counsel, Office of Market Supervision, at (202) 551-

5681, and Elizabeth C. Badawy, Senior Accountant, Office of Market Supervision, at (202) 5515612, Division of Trading and Markets, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549-7010.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Regulation SCI will, with regard to SCI entities,
supersede and replace the Commission’s current Automation Review Policy (“ARP”),
established by the Commission’s two policy statements, each titled “Automated Systems of SelfRegulatory Organizations,” issued in 1989 and 1991. 1 Regulation SCI also will supersede and
replace aspects of those policy statements codified in Rule 301(b)(6) under the Exchange Act,
applicable to significant-volume ATSs that trade NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks. 2 Regulation
SCI will require SCI entities to establish written policies and procedures reasonably designed to
ensure that their systems have levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security
adequate to maintain their operational capability and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly
markets, and that they operate in a manner that complies with the Exchange Act. It will also
require SCI entities to mandate participation by designated members or participants in scheduled
testing of the operation of their business continuity and disaster recovery plans, including backup
systems, and to coordinate such testing on an industry- or sector-wide basis with other SCI
entities. In addition, Regulation SCI will require SCI entities to take corrective action with
respect to SCI events (defined to include systems disruptions, systems compliance issues, and
systems intrusions), and notify the Commission of such events. Regulation SCI will further
1

See Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 27445 (November 16, 1989), 54 FR 48703
(November 24, 1989) (“ARP I Release” or “ARP I”) and 29185 (May 9, 1991), 56 FR
22490 (May 15, 1991) (“ARP II Release” or “ARP II” and, together with ARP I, the
“ARP Policy Statements”).

2

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6). See also Securities Exchange Act Release No. 40760
(December 8, 1998), 63 FR 70844 (December 22, 1998) (“ATS Release”).

2

require SCI entities to disseminate information about certain SCI events to affected members or
participants and, for certain major SCI events, to all members or participants of the SCI entity.
In addition, Regulation SCI will require SCI entities to conduct a review of their systems by
objective, qualified personnel at least annually, submit quarterly reports regarding completed,
ongoing, and planned material changes to their SCI systems to the Commission, and maintain
certain books and records. Finally, the Commission also is adopting modifications to the volume
thresholds in Regulation ATS 3 for significant-volume ATSs that trade NMS stocks and nonNMS stocks, applying them to SCI ATSs (as defined below), and moving this standard from
Regulation ATS to adopted Regulation SCI for these asset classes.
Table of Contents

I. Introduction
II. Background
A. Automation Review Policy Inspection Program
B. Recent Events
III. Overview
IV. Description of Adopted Regulation SCI and Form SCI
A. Definitions Establishing the Scope of Regulation SCI – Rule 1000
1. SCI Entities
a.
SCI Self-Regulatory Organization or SCI SRO
b.
SCI Alternative Trading System
c.
Plan Processor
d.
Exempt Clearing Agency Subject to ARP
2. SCI Systems, Critical SCI Systems, and Indirect SCI Systems
a.
Overview
b.
SCI Systems
c.
Critical SCI Systems
d.
Indirect SCI Systems (Proposed as “SCI Security Systems”)
3. SCI Events
a.
Systems Disruption
b.
Systems Compliance Issue
c.
Systems Intrusion
B. Obligations of SCI Entities – Rules 1001-1004
3

17 CFR 242.300-303 (“Regulation ATS”).

3

1.

Policies and Procedures to Achieve Capacity, Integrity, Resiliency, Availability
and Security – Rule 1001(a)
2. Policies and Procedures to Achieve Systems Compliance – Rule 1001(b)
3. SCI Events: Corrective Action; Commission Notification; Dissemination of
Information – Rule 1002
a.
Triggering Standard
b.
Corrective Action – Rule 1002(a)
c.
Commission Notification – Rule 1002(b)
d.
Dissemination of Information – Rule 1002(c)
4. Notification of Systems Changes – Rule 1003(a)
5. SCI Review – Rule 1003(b)
6. SCI Entity Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plans Testing
Requirements for Members or Participants – Rule 1004
C. Recordkeeping, Electronic Filing on Form SCI, and Access – Rules 1005-1007
1. Recordkeeping – Rules 1005-1007
2. Electronic Filing and Submission of Reports, Notifications, and Other
Communications – Rule 1006
3. Access to the Systems of an SCI Entity
D. Form SCI
E. Other Comments Received
F. Effective Date and Compliance Dates
V. Paperwork Reduction Act
VI. Economic Analysis
VII. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
VIII. Statutory Authority and Text of Amendments
I.

Introduction
The U.S. securities markets attract a wide variety of issuers and broad investor

participation, and are essential for capital formation, job creation, and economic growth, both
domestically and across the globe. The U.S. securities markets have been transformed by
regulatory and related technological developments in recent years. They have, among other
things, substantially enhanced the speed, capacity, efficiency, and sophistication of the trading
functions that are available to market participants. 4 At the same time, these technological
advances have generated an increasing risk of operational problems with automated systems,

4

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 61358 (January 14, 2010), 75 FR 3594, 3598
(January 21, 2010) (Concept Release on Equity Market Structure).

4

including failures, disruptions, delays, and intrusions. Given the speed and interconnected nature
of the U.S. securities markets, a seemingly minor systems problem at a single entity can quickly
create losses and liability for market participants, and spread rapidly across the national market
system, potentially creating widespread damage and harm to market participants, including
investors.
This transformation of the U.S. securities markets has occurred in the absence of a formal
regulatory structure governing the automated systems of key market participants. Instead, for
over two decades, Commission oversight of the technology of the U.S. securities markets has
been conducted primarily pursuant to a voluntary set of principles articulated in the
Commission’s ARP Policy Statements, 5 applied through the Commission’s Automation Review
Policy inspection program (“ARP Inspection Program”). 6
Section 11A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act, 7 enacted as part of the Securities Acts
Amendments of 1975 (“1975 Amendments”), 8 directs the Commission, having due regard for the
public interest, the protection of investors, and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, to

5

While participation in the ARP Inspection Program is voluntary, the underpinnings of
ARP I and ARP II are rooted in Exchange Act requirements. See infra notes 7-12 and
accompanying text.

6

See infra Section II.A (discussing the ARP Inspection Program). See also supra note 1.
The ARP Inspection Program has historically been administered by the Commission’s
Division of Trading and Markets. In February 2014, to consolidate the inspection
function of the group with the Commission’s Office of Compliance Inspections and
Examinations (“OCIE”), the ARP Inspection Program was transitioned to OCIE and has
been renamed the Technology Controls Program (“TCP”). However, for ease of
reference to the historical ARP Inspection Program, relevant portions of the SCI
Proposal, and references in comment letters, this Release will continue to use the terms
ARP, ARP Inspection Program, and ARP staff, unless the context otherwise requires.

7

15 U.S.C. 78k-1(a)(2).

8

Pub. L. 94-29, 89 Stat. 97 (1975).

5

use its authority under the Exchange Act to facilitate the establishment of a national market
system for securities in accordance with the Congressional findings and objectives set forth in
Section 11A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act. 9 Among the findings and objectives in Section
11A(a)(1) is that “[n]ew data processing and communications techniques create the opportunity
for more efficient and effective market operations” 10 and “[i]t is in the public interest and
appropriate for the protection of investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets to
assure…the economically efficient execution of securities transactions.” 11 In addition, Sections
6(b), 15A, and 17A(b)(3) of the Exchange Act impose obligations on national securities
exchanges, national securities associations, and clearing agencies, respectively, to be “so
organized” and “[have] the capacity to…carry out the purposes of [the Exchange Act].” 12
In March 2013, the Commission proposed Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity
(“Regulation SCI”) 13 to require certain key market participants to, among other things: (1) have
comprehensive policies and procedures in place to help ensure the robustness and resiliency of
their technological systems, and also that their technological systems operate in compliance with
the federal securities laws and with their own rules; and (2) provide certain notices and reports to
the Commission to improve Commission oversight of securities market infrastructure. As
discussed in further detail below and in the SCI Proposal, Regulation SCI was proposed to

9

15 U.S.C. 78k-1(a)(1).

10

Section 11A(a)(1)(B) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78k-1(a)(1)(B).

11

Section 11A(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78k-1(a)(1)(C)(i).

12

See Sections 6(b)(1), 15A(b)(2), and 17A(b)(3) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C.
78f(b)(1), 78o-3(b)(2), 78q-1(b)(3), respectively. See also Section 2 of the Exchange
Act, 15 U.S.C. 78b, and Section 19 of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s.

13

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 69077 (March 8, 2013), 78 FR 18083 (March 25,
2013) (“Proposing Release” or “SCI Proposal”).

6

update, formalize, and expand the Commission’s ARP Inspection Program, and, with respect to
SCI entities, to supersede and replace the Commission’s ARP Policy Statements and rules
regarding systems capacity, integrity and security in Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS. 14
A confluence of factors contributed to the Commission’s proposal of Regulation SCI and
to the Commission’s current determination that it is necessary and appropriate at this time to
address the technological vulnerabilities, and improve Commission oversight, of the core
technology of key U.S. securities markets entities, including national securities exchanges and
associations, significant alternative trading systems, clearing agencies, and plan processors.
These considerations include: the evolution of the markets to become significantly more
dependent upon sophisticated, complex and interconnected technology; the current successes and
limitations of the ARP Inspection Program; a significant number of, and lessons learned from,
recent systems issues at exchanges and other trading venues, 15 increased concerns over “single

14

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6) and ATS Release, supra note 2.

15

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18085-91 for a further discussion of these
developments and infra Section II.B (discussing recent events related to technology
issues). In addition, prior to issuing the Proposing Release, in October 2012 the
Commission convened a roundtable entitled “Technology and Trading: Promoting
Stability in Today’s Markets” (“Technology Roundtable”). The Technology Roundtable
examined the relationship between the operational stability and integrity of the securities
market and the ways in which market participants design, implement, and manage
complex and interconnected trading technologies. See Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 67802 (September 7, 2012), 77 FR 56697 (September 13, 2012) (File No. 4-652) and
Technology Roundtable Transcript, available at:
http://www.sec.gov/news/otherwebcasts/2012/ttr100212-transcript.pdf. A webcast of the
Roundtable is available at: www.sec.gov/news/otherwebcasts/2012/ttr100212.shtml. As
noted in the Proposing Release, the Commission believes that the information presented
at the Technology Roundtable further highlighted that quality standards, testing, and
improved response mechanisms are among the issues needing very thoughtful and
focused attention in today’s securities markets. See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at
18090-91 for further discussion of the Technology Roundtable.

7

points of failure” in the securities markets; 16 and the views of a wide variety of commenters
received in response to the SCI Proposal.
The Commission received 60 comment letters on the proposal from national securities
exchanges, registered securities associations, registered clearing agencies, ATSs, broker-dealers,
institutional and individual investors, industry trade groups, software and technology vendors,
and academics. 17 Commenters generally supported the goals of the proposal, but as further
discussed below, some expressed concern about various specific elements of the proposal, and
recommended certain modifications or clarifications.
After careful review and consideration of the comment letters, the Commission is
adopting Regulation SCI (“Rule”) and Form SCI (“Form”) with certain modifications from the
SCI Proposal, as discussed below, to respond to concerns expressed by commenters and upon
further consideration by the Commission of the more appropriate approach to further the goals of
the national market system by strengthening the technology infrastructure of the U.S. securities
markets.
II.

Background
A.

Automation Review Policy Inspection Program

16

See infra Section IV.A.2.c (discussing single points of failure in the securities markets in
conjunction with the adopted term “critical SCI system”).

17

Comments received on the proposal are available on the Commission’s website, available
at: http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-01-13/s70113.shtml. See Exhibit A for a citation
key to the comment letters cited in this release.
Upon request from some commenters, the Commission extended the comment period for
an additional 45 days in order to give the public additional time to comment on the
matters addressed by the SCI Proposal. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 69606
(May 20, 2013), 78 FR 30803 (May 23, 2013).

8

For over two decades, the Commission’s ARP Inspection Program has helped the
Commission oversee the technology infrastructure of the U.S. securities markets. This voluntary
information technology review program was developed by staff of the Commission to implement
the Commission’s ARP Policy Statements issued in 1989 and 1991. 18 Through these Policy
Statements, the Commission articulated its views on the steps that SROs should take with regard
to their automated systems, set forth recommendations for how SROs should conduct
independent reviews, and provided that SROs should notify the Commission of material systems
changes and significant systems problems. 19 In 1998, the Commission adopted Regulation ATS
which, among other things, imposed by rule certain aspects of the ARP Policy Statements on
significant-volume ATSs. 20 Further, Commission staff subsequently provided additional
guidance regarding various aspects of the ARP Inspection Program through letters to ARP
entities, including recommendations regarding reporting planned systems changes and systems
issues to the Commission. 21
Under the ARP Inspection Program, Commission staff (“ARP staff”) conducts
inspections of the trading and related systems of national securities exchanges and associations,
certain ATSs, clearing agencies, and plan processors (collectively “ARP entities”), attends
periodic technology briefings by ARP entities, monitors planned significant system changes, and
18

See ARP Policy Statements, supra note 1. For a detailed discussion of the ARP Policy
Statements, see Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18085-86.

19

See ARP Policy Statements, supra note 1.

20

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6) and ATS Release, supra note 2.

21

In June 2001, staff from the Division of Market Regulation sent a letter to the SROs and
other participants in the ARP Inspection Program regarding Guidance for Systems
Outage and System Change Notifications (“2001 Staff ARP Interpretive Letter”). See
Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18087, n. 35. The 2001 Staff ARP Interpretive
Letter is available at: http://www.sec.gov/divisions/marketreg/sroautomation.shtml.

9

responds to reports of system failures, disruptions, and other systems problems of ARP entities.
The goal of the ARP inspections is to evaluate whether an ARP entity’s controls over its
information technology resources in nine general areas, or information technology “domains,” 22
is consistent with ARP and industry guidelines. Such guidelines are identified by ARP staff
from a variety of information technology publications that ARP staff believes reflects industry
standards for securities market participants. 23 At the conclusion of an ARP inspection, ARP staff
typically issues a report to the ARP entity with an assessment of the ARP entity’s information
technology program for its key systems, including any recommendations for improvement. 24
Because the ARP Inspection Program was established pursuant to Commission policy
statements rather than Commission rules, participation in and compliance with the ARP
Inspection Program by ARP entities is voluntary. As such, despite its general success in working
with SROs to improve their automated systems, there are certain limitations with the ARP
Inspection Program. In particular, because of the voluntary nature of the ARP Inspection
Program, the Commission is constrained in its ability to assure compliance with ARP standards.
22

These information technology “domains” include: application controls; capacity
planning; computer operations and production environment controls; contingency
planning; information security and networking; audit; outsourcing; physical security; and
systems development methodology. Each domain itself contains subcategories. For
example, “contingency planning” includes business continuity, disaster recovery, and
pandemic planning, among other things. See id. at 18086.

23

See id. at 18086-87.

24

In addition, Commission staff conducts inspections of SROs, as part of the Commission’s
oversight of them. Unlike ARP inspections, however, which focus on information
technology controls, such Commission staff primarily conducts risk-based examinations
of securities exchanges, FINRA, and other SROs to evaluate whether they and their
member firms are complying with the Exchange Act, the rules thereunder, and SRO
rules, as applicable. As part of the Commission’s oversight of the SROs, Commission
staff also reviews systems compliance issues reported to Commission staff. The
information gained from the Commission staff review of reported systems compliance
issues helps to inform its examination risk-assessments for SROs. See id. at 18087.

10

The Government Accountability Office (“GAO”) has identified the voluntary nature of the ARP
Inspection Program as a limitation and recommended that the Commission make compliance
with ARP guidelines mandatory. 25 In addition, as more fully discussed in the SCI Proposal, the
evolution of the U.S. securities markets in recent years to become almost entirely electronic and
highly dependent on sophisticated trading and other technology, including complex and
interconnected routing, market data, regulatory, surveillance and other systems, has posed
challenges for the ARP Inspection Program. 26
B.

Recent Events

A series of high-profile recent events involving systems-related issues further highlights
the need for market participants to bolster the operational integrity of their automated systems in
this area. In the SCI Proposal, the Commission identified several systems problems experienced
by SROs and ATSs that garnered significant public attention and illustrated the types and risks of
systems issues affecting today’s markets. 27 Since Regulation SCI’s proposal in March 2013,
additional systems problems among market participants have occurred, further underscoring the
importance of bolstering the robustness of U.S. market infrastructure to help ensure its stability,
integrity, and resiliency.

25

See GAO, Financial Market Preparedness: Improvements Made, but More Action
Needed to Prepare for Wide-Scale Disasters, Report No. GAO-04-984 (September 27,
2004). GAO cited instances in which the GAO believed that entities participating in the
ARP Inspection Program failed to adequately address or implement ARP staff
recommendations as the reasoning behind its recommendation to make compliance with
ARP guidelines mandatory.

26

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18087-89.

27

See id. at 18089-90. The Proposing Release also discussed the effects of Superstorm
Sandy on the U.S. securities exchanges, noting certain weaknesses in business continuity
and disaster recovery planning that were highlighted by the event. See id. at 18091.

11

In particular, since Regulation SCI’s proposal, disruptions have continued to occur across
a variety of market participants. For example, with respect to the options markets, some
exchanges have delayed the opening of trading, 28 halted trading, 29 or experienced other errors as
a result of systems issues, 30 and trading in options was halted due to a systems issue with the

28

On April 25, 2013, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (“CBOE”) delayed the
opening of trading on its exchange for over three hours due to what CBOE described as
an internal “software bug.” See CBOE Information Circular IC13-036, April 29, 2013,
available at: http://www.cboe.com/publish/InfoCir/IC13-036.pdf. During this time,
while trading in many products was able to continue on the other options exchanges,
trading was completely halted for those products that are singly-listed on CBOE,
including options on the S&P 500 Index and the CBOE Volatility Index (“VIX”).
Trading was able to resume by approximately 1:00 p.m. ET, though some residual
systems problems continued. Specifically, certain auction mechanisms were unavailable
for the remainder of the day and some of the trade data from April 25 was erroneously retransmitted to OCC on April 26. See id. and CBOE System Status notifications for April
25, 2013, available at: http://www.cboe.com/aboutcboe/systemstatus/search.aspx.
CBOE subsequently reported that preliminary staging work related to a planned
reconfiguration of CBOE’s systems in preparation for extended trading hours on the
CBOE Futures Exchange and CBOE options exchange “exposed and triggered a design
flaw in the existing messaging infrastructure configuration.” See CBOE Information
Circular IC13-036, April 29, 2013, available at:
http://www.cboe.com/publish/InfoCir/IC13-036.pdf.

29

On November 1, 2013, Nasdaq halted trading on the Nasdaq Options Market (“NOM”)
for more than five hours through the close of the trading day. Nasdaq stated that the halt
was a result of “a significant increase in order entries which inhibited the system’s ability
to accept orders and disseminate quotes on a subset of symbols.” As Nasdaq stated,
Nasdaq determined that it was in the best interest of market participants and investors to
cancel all orders on the NOM book and continue the market halt through the close. See
Nasdaq Market System Status Updates for November 1, 2013, available at:
https://www.nasdaqtrader.com/Trader.aspx?id=MarketSystemStatusSearch.

30

On April 29, 2014, NYSE Arca and NYSE Amex Options experienced a systems issue
that resulted in numerous complex orders booking at incorrect prices. In some cases, this
resulted in erroneous fill reports, all of which were subsequently nullified. See Trader
Update to All NYSE Amex Options and NYSE Arca Options Participants, “Erroneous
Complex Order Executions,” dated April 29, 2014, available at:
http://www1.nyse.com/pdfs/2014_04_29_NYSE_Amex_and_Arca_Options_Erroneous_
Complex_Order_Executions.pdf.

12

securities information processor for options market information. 31 Systems issues have also
impacted consolidated market data in the equities markets, including one incident that led to a
trading halt in all securities listed on a particular exchange. 32 Systems issues have also affected

31

On September 16, 2013, options market trading was halted for approximately 20 minutes
due to a systems issue with the Options Price Reporting Authority (“OPRA”), the
securities information processor for options market information that disseminates option
quotation and last sale information to market data vendors. OPRA reported that it
experienced problems processing quotes as a result of a software issue originating from a
limited rollout of certain software upgrades. See Notice to All OPRA Market Data
Recipients from OPRA, LLC, dated September 18, 2013, available at:
http://www.opradata.com/specs/16-sept-2013-opra-outage.pdf.

32

On August 22, 2013, the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (“Nasdaq”) halted trading in all
Nasdaq-listed securities for more than three hours after the Nasdaq UTP Securities
Information Processor (“SIP”), the single source of consolidated market data for Nasdaqlisted securities, was unable to process quotes from exchanges for dissemination to the
public. According to Nasdaq, a sequence of events created a spike in message traffic
volume into the SIP exceeding the SIP’s capacity and causing the system to fail. Nasdaq
cited “more than 20 connect and disconnect sequences from NYSE Arca” and a “stream
of quotes for inaccurate symbols from NYSE Arca” as events contributing to the systems
problem. Nasdaq noted that the stream of messages, which was 26 times greater than
usual activity, degraded the system and exceeded its capacity, ultimately resulting in the
failure. Nasdaq stated that these events exposed a flaw in the SIP’s software code which
prevented a successful failover to the backup system. See “NASDAQ OMX Provides
Updates on Events of August 22, 2013,” by NASDAQ OMX (August 29, 2013),
available at:
http://www.nasdaqomx.com/newsroom/pressreleases/pressrelease?messageId=1204807&
displayLanguage=en; and Nasdaq Market System Status notifications for August 22,
2013, available at:
https://www.nasdaqtrader.com/Trader.aspx?id=MarketSystemStatusSearch.
Nasdaq experienced another outage related to the SIP on September 4, 2013. This
incident lasted only several minutes and affected only a subset of Nasdaq-listed
securities. See “NASDAQ OMX Issues Statement on the Securities Information
Processor,” by NASDAQ OMX (September 4, 2013), available at:
http://ir.nasdaqomx.com/releasedetail.cfm?ReleaseID=788700.
The SIP consolidates quotation information and transaction reports from market centers
and disseminates such consolidated information to market participants pursuant to the
Commission-approved Joint Self-Regulatory Organization Plan Governing the
Collection, Consolidation and Dissemination of Quotation and Transaction Information
for Nasdaq-Listed Securities Traded on Exchanges on an Unlisted Trading Privilege
13

trading off of national securities exchanges, including an incident where FINRA halted trading in
all OTC equity securities due to a lack of availability of quotation information resulting from a
connectivity issue experienced by an ATS. 33 Systems issues during this time have not been
limited to systems disruptions, but have also included allegations of systems compliance issues. 34

Basis, available at: http://www.utpplan.com/. See generally Rule 608 of Regulation
NMS, 17 CFR 242.608 (“Filing and amendment of national market system plans”).
More recently, on October 30, 2014, according to the NYSE, a network hardware failure
impacted the Consolidated Tape System, Consolidated Quote System, and Options Price
Reporting Authority data feeds at the primary data center. Exchanges experienced issues
publishing and receiving trades and quotes as a result. After investigation of the issue,
the Securities Industry Automation Corporation (“SIAC”) (the processor for the affected
data feeds) switched over to the secondary data center for these data feeds and normal
processing subsequently resumed. The exchanges then connected to the secondary data
center as provided for in SIAC’s business continuity plan. See “Service Advisory – CTA
Update,” by NYSE (October 30, 2014), available at:
https://markets.nyx.com/nyse/market-status/view/13467 and “NMS SIP market wide
issue,” by NYSE (October 30, 2014), available at: https://markets.nyx.com/nyse/marketstatus/view/13465.
33

On November 7, 2013, FINRA halted trading for over 3 ½ hours in all OTC equity
securities due to a lack of availability of quotation information resulting from a
connectivity issue experienced by OTC Markets Group Inc.’s OTC Link ATS. See
“Market-Wide Quotation and Trading Halt for all OTC Equity Securities,” FINRA
Uniform Practice Advisory, UPC #47-13, November 7, 2013, available at:
http://www.finra.org/web/groups/industry/@ip/@comp/@mt/documents/upcnotices/p381
590.pdf; “Quotation and Trading Halt for OTC Equity Securities,” FINRA Uniform
Practice Advisory, UPC #48-13, November 7, 2013, available at:
http://www.finra.org/web/groups/industry/@ip/@comp/@mt/documents/upcnotices/p381
593.pdf; “OTC Markets Group Issues Statement on OTC Link® ATS Trading on
November 7, 2013,” OTC Disclosure & News Service, November 7, 2013, available at:
http://www.otcmarkets.com/stock/OTCM/news/OTC-Markets-Group-Issues-Statementon-OTC-Linkreg-ATS-Trading-on-November-7-2013?id=71144. OTC Markets Group
subsequently reported that a network outage at one of its core network providers caused
the lack of connectivity to its primary data center in New Jersey. See “OTC Markets
Group Issues Statement on OTC Link® ATS Trading on November 7, 2013,” OTC
Disclosure & News Service, November 7, 2013, available at:
http://www.otcmarkets.com/stock/OTCM/news/OTC-Markets-Group-Issues-Statementon-OTC-Linkreg-ATS-Trading-on-November-7-2013?id=71144.

34

For example, in June 2013, the Commission charged CBOE and its affiliate (C2 Options
Exchange, Incorporated (“C2”)) for various systemic breakdowns in their regulatory and
14

Systems issues are not unique to the U.S. securities markets, with similar incidents
occurring in the U.S. commodities markets as well as foreign markets. 35 However, the

compliance responsibilities as self-regulatory organizations, including failure to enforce
the federal securities laws and Commission rules. See Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 69726, In the Matter of Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated and C2
Options Exchange, Incorporated (settled action: June 11, 2013), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2013/34-69726.pdf (“CBOE Order”). CBOE andC2
consented to an Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings
Pursuant to Sections 19(h) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making
Findings, and Imposing Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order. In the CBOE Order,
among other charges, the Commission stated that “CBOE’s automated surveillance
programs for manually handled trades were ineffective” and that “CBOE failed to
maintain a reliable or accurate audit trail of orders” on its trading facility. See id. at 11,
13.
In addition, in May 2014, the Commission sanctioned the New York Stock Exchange
LLC (“NYSE”) and two of its affiliated exchanges (NYSE Arca, Inc. (“NYSE Arca”),
NYSE MKT LLC (“NYSE MKT”)) for alleged failure to comply with their
responsibilities as self-regulatory organizations to conduct their business operations in
accordance with Commission-approved exchange rules and the federal securities laws.
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 72065, In the Matter of New York Stock
Exchange LLC, NYSE Arca, Inc., NYSE MKT LLC, and Archipelago Securities, L.L.C.
(settled action: May 1, 2014), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2014/34-72065.pdf (“NYSE Order”). NYSE, NYSE
Arca, NYSE MKT, and Archipelago Securities consented to an Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 19(h) and 21C of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Sanctions and a
Cease-and-Desist Order. In the NYSE Order, the Commission cited various instances of
NYSE systems not operating in compliance with their effective rules, such as NYSE’s
block trading facility not functioning in accordance with applicable rules; NYSE
distributing an automated feed of closing order imbalance information to its floor brokers
at an earlier time than specified in NYSE rules; and NYSE failing to execute certain
orders in locked markets contrary to exchange rules. See id. In the NYSE Order, the
Commission stated that the exchanges “lacked comprehensive and consistently-applied
policies and procedures for...evaluating whether business operations were being
conducted fully in accordance with existing exchange rules and the federal securities
laws.” Id. at 3.
35

See, e.g., Jacob Bunge, Bradley Hope, and Leslie Josephs, “Technical Glitch Hits CME
Trading,” Wall St. J., April 8, 2014; Jeremy Grant, “Glitch Delays Singapore Derivative
Trade,” Fin. Times, April 9, 2013; Tamsyn Parker, “NZX Trading Resumes After
Technical Glitch,” The New Zealand Herald, July 1, 2013; Matt Clinch, “Flash Crash:
Israel Stocks Hit by Typo,” CNBC.com, available at:
15

Commission believes that it is critical that key U.S. securities market participants bolster their
operational integrity to prevent, to the extent reasonably possible, these types of events, which
can not only lead to tangible monetary losses, 36 but which commenters believe to have the
potential to reduce investor confidence in the U.S. markets. 37
The SCI Proposal also noted that the risks associated with cybersecurity, and how to
protect against systems intrusions, are increasingly of concern to all types of entities. 38 On
March 27, 2014, the Commission conducted a Cybersecurity Roundtable (“Cybersecurity
Roundtable”). 39 The Cybersecurity Roundtable addressed the cybersecurity landscape and
cybersecurity issues faced by participants in the financial markets today, including exchanges,

http://www.cnbc.com/id/100986999; and Ksenia Galouchko, “Moscow Exchange Halts
Derivatives Trading for Almost an Hour,” Bloomberg, November 13, 2013.
36

See, e.g., Proposing Release, supra note 13 (discussing systems issues affecting the initial
public offerings (“IPO”) of BATS Global Markets, Inc. and Facebook, Inc.). In a rule
change approved by the Commission in March 2013, Nasdaq implemented a $62 million
accommodation program to compensate certain members for their losses in connection
with the Facebook IPO. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 69216 (March 22, 2013),
78 FR 19040 (March 28, 2013). In its quarterly earnings announcement for the second
quarter of 2013, UBS reported a $356 million loss tied to Facebook’s IPO, while The
Knight Capital Group and Citadel Investment Group claimed losses of $30 million to $35
million and Citigroup cited losses close to $20 million. See Michael J. De La Merced,
“Behind the Huge Facebook Loss at UBS,” N.Y. Times, July 21, 2012. See also Angel
Letter at 15 (stating that catastrophic failures in exchange systems are extremely costly in
terms of direct losses to participants and result in reduced investor confidence in
markets); and Better Markets Letter at 2 (citing to the systems related problems at Knight
Capital, Direct Edge, BATS, and during the Facebook IPO that resulted in investor or
company losses).

37

See, e.g., Angel2 Letter at 2; Sungard Letter at 2; Better Markets Letter at 2; Leuchtkafer
Letter at 3; FSI Letter at 3; and Angel Letter at 10, 15.

38

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18089-90.

39

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 71742 (March 19, 2014), 79 FR 16071 (March
24, 2014) (File No. 4-673). A webcast of the Cybersecurity Roundtable is available at:
http://www.sec.gov/news/otherwebcasts/2014/cybersecurity-roundtable-032614.shtml.

16

broker-dealers, investment advisers, transfer agents and public companies. 40 Panelists discussed,
among other topics, the scope and nature of cybersecurity threats to the financial industry; how

40

The first panel discussed the cybersecurity landscape, and panelists included: Cyrus
Amir-Mokri, Assistant Secretary for Financial Institutions, Department of the Treasury;
Mary E. Galligan, Director, Cyber Risk Services, Deloitte and Touche LLP; Craig
Mundie, Member, President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology; Senior
Advisor to the Chief Executive Officer, Microsoft Corporation; Javier Ortiz, Vice
President, Strategy and Global Head of Government Affairs, TaaSera, Inc.; Andy Roth,
Partner and Co-Chair, Global Privacy and Security Group, Dentons US LLP; Ari
Schwartz, Acting Senior Director for Cybersecurity Programs, National Security Council,
The White House; Adam Sedgewick, Senior Information Technology Policy Advisor,
national Institute of Standards and Technology; and Larry Zelvin, Director, National
Cybersecurity and Communications Integration Center, U.S. Department of Homeland
Security.
The second panel discussed public company disclosure of cybersecurity risks and
incidents, and panelists included: Peter Beshar, Executive Vice President and General
Counsel, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.; David Burg, Global and U.S. Advisor
Cyber Security Leader, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP; Roberta Karmel, Centennial
Professor of Law, Brooklyn Law School; Jonas Kron, Senior Vice President, Director of
Shareholder Advocacy, Trillum Asset Management LLC; Douglas Meal, Partner, Ropes
& Gray LLP; and Leslie T. Thornton, Vice President and General Counsel, WGL
Holdings, Inc. and Washington Gas Light Company.
The third panel addressed cybersecurity issues faced by the securities markets, and
panelists included: Mark G. Clancy, Managing Director and Corporate Information
Security Officer, The Depository Trust and Clearing Corporation; Mark Graff, Chief
Information Security Officer, Nasdaq OMX; Todd Furney, Vice President, Systems
Security, Chicago Board Options Exchange; Katheryn Rosen, Deputy Assistant
Secretary, Office of Financial Institutions Policy, Department of the Treasury; Thomas
Sinnott, Managing Director, Global Information Security, CME Group; and Aaron
Weissenfluh, Chief Information Security Officer, BATS Global Markets, Inc.
The final panel discussed how broker-dealers, investment advisers, and transfer agents
address cybersecurity issues, and panelists included: John Denning, Senior Vice
President, Operational Policy Integration, Development and Strategy, Bank of
America/Merrill Lynch; Jimmie H. Lenz, Senior Vice President, Chief Risk and Credit
Officer, Wells Fargo Advisors LLC; Mark R. Manley, Senior Vice President, Deputy
General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer, AllianceBernstein L.P.; Marcus
Prendergast, Director and Corporate Information Security Officer, ITG; Karl Schimmeck,
Managing Director, Financial Services Operations, Securities Industry and Financial
Markets Association; Daniel M. Sibears, Executive Vice President, Regulatory
Operations/Shared Services, FINRA; John Reed Stark, Managing Director, Stroz
Friedberg; Craig Thomas, Chief Information Security Officer, Computershare; and David
17

market participants can effectively manage cybersecurity threats, including public and private
sector coordination efforts and information sharing; the role that government should play to
promote cybersecurity in the financial markets and market infrastructure; cybersecurity
disclosure issues faced by public companies; and the identification of appropriate best practices
and standards with regard to cybersecurity. Although the views of panelists varied, many
emphasized the significant risk that cybersecurity attacks pose to the financial markets and
market infrastructure today and the need to effectively manage that risk through measures such
as testing, risk assessments, adoption of consistent best practices and standards, and information
sharing.
III.

Overview
The Commission acknowledges that the nature of technology and the level of

sophistication and automation of current market systems prevent any measure, regulatory or
otherwise, from completely eliminating all systems disruptions, intrusions, or other systems
issues. 41 However, given the issues outlined above, the Commission believes that the adoption
of, and compliance by SCI entities with Regulation SCI, with the modifications from the SCI
Proposal as discussed below, will advance the goals of the national market system by enhancing
the capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security of the automated systems of entities
important to the functioning of the U.S. securities markets, as well as reinforce the requirement
G. Tittsworth, Executive Director and Executive Vice President, Investment Adviser
Association.
41

See, e.g., October 2, 2012 remarks by Dr. Nancy Leveson, Professor of Aeronautics and
Astronautics and Professor of Engineering Systems, MIT, Technology Roundtable
(stating, for example, that “it is impossible to build totally secure software systems” and
“we’ve learned that we cannot build an unsinkable ship and cannot build unfailable
software”), available at: http://www.sec.gov/news/otherwebcasts/2012/ttr100212transcript.pdf.

18

that such systems operate in compliance with the Exchange Act and rules and regulations
thereunder, thus strengthening the infrastructure of the U.S. securities markets and improving its
resilience when technological issues arise. In this respect, Regulation SCI establishes an updated
and formalized regulatory framework, thereby helping to ensure more effective Commission
oversight of such systems.
As proposed, Regulation SCI would have applied to “SCI entities” (estimated in the SCI
Proposal to be 44 entities), a term which would have included all self-regulatory organizations
(excluding security futures exchanges), ATSs that exceed specified volume thresholds, plan
processors for market data NMS plans, and certain exempt clearing agencies. The most
significant elements of the SCI Proposal 42 would have required each SCI entity to:
•

Implement policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its “SCI systems”
and “SCI security systems” have levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and
security, adequate to maintain the SCI entity’s operational capability and promote the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets, with deemed compliance for policies and
procedures that are consistent with current SCI industry standards, including identified
information technology publications listed on proposed Table A;

•

Implement policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its systems operate
in the manner intended, including in compliance with the federal securities laws and
rules, and the entity’s rules and governing documents, with safe harbors from liability for
SCI entities and individuals;

42

Each provision of the SCI Proposal is described in further detail below in Section IV.
See also Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.

19

•

Upon any “responsible SCI personnel” becoming aware of the occurrence of an “SCI
event” (defined to include systems disruptions, systems compliance issues, and systems
intrusions), begin to take appropriate corrective action, including mitigating potential
harm to investors and market integrity and devoting adequate resources to remedy the
SCI event as soon as practicable;

•

Report to the Commission the occurrence of any SCI event; and notify its members or
participants of certain types of SCI events;

•

Notify the Commission 30 days in advance of “material systems changes” (subject to an
exception for exigent circumstances) and provide semi-annual summary progress reports
on such material systems changes;

•

Conduct an annual review, to be performed by objective, qualified personnel, of its
compliance with Regulation SCI and submit a report of such annual review to its senior
management and to the Commission;

•

Designate those of its members or participants that would be required to participate in the
testing (to occur at least annually) of its business continuity and disaster recovery plans,
and coordinate such testing with other SCI entities on an industry- or sector-wide basis;
and

•

Meet certain other requirements, including maintaining records related to compliance
with Regulation SCI and providing Commission representatives reasonable access to its
systems to assess compliance with the rule.
The Commission received substantial comment on the SCI Proposal from a wide range of

entities. Commenters generally expressed support for the goals of the rule, but many suggested
that the SCI Proposal’s scope was unnecessarily broad and could be more tailored to lower
20

compliance costs and still achieve the goal of reducing significant technology risk in the markets.
Broadly speaking, the areas of concern garnering the greatest comment included the: (i) breadth
of certain key proposed definitions; (ii) costs associated with the scope of the proposed rule,
including its reporting obligations; (iii) publications designated on Table A as proposed
examples of “current SCI industry standards;” (iv) proposed entity safe harbor for systems
compliance policies and procedures; (v) breadth of the proposed mandatory testing requirements;
and (vi) proposed access provision. 43
The Commission has carefully considered the views of commenters in crafting
Regulation SCI to meet its goals to strengthen the technology infrastructure of the securities
markets and improve its resilience when technology falls short. Many of these modifications are
intended to further focus the scope of the requirements from the proposal and to lessen the costs
and burdens on SCI entities, while still allowing the Commission to achieve its goals. While
Section IV below provides a detailed discussion of the changes the Commission has made to the
SCI Proposal in adopting Regulation SCI today, 44 broadly speaking, the key changes include:
•

Refining the scope of the proposal by, among other things, revising certain key
definitions (including the definition of SCI systems and the definition of SCI ATS to
exclude ATSs that trade only municipal securities or corporate debt securities (together,
“fixed-income ATSs”)), refining the reporting framework for SCI events, and replacing
the proposed 30-day advanced reporting requirement for material systems changes with a
quarterly reporting requirement;

43

A more detailed discussion of commenters’ views can be found below in Section IV.

44

The Economic Analysis, infra Section VI, discusses the economic effects, including the
costs and benefits, of the provisions of Regulation SCI, as adopted.

21

•

Modifying the proposal to differentiate certain obligations and requirements, including
tailoring certain obligations based on the criticality of a system (by, for example,
adopting a new defined term “critical SCI system” for which heightened requirements
will apply), and based on the significance of an event (such as adopting a new defined
term “major SCI event” for purposes of the dissemination requirements, and establishing
differing reporting obligations for SCI events that have had no or a de minimis impact on
the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants);

•

Modifying the proposed policies and procedures requirements relating to both operational
capability and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, as well as systems
compliance;

•

Refining the scope of SCI entity members and participants that would be required to
participate in mandatory business continuity/disaster recovery plan testing; and

•

Eliminating the proposed requirement that SCI entities provide Commission
representatives reasonable access to their systems because the Commission can
adequately assess an SCI entity’s compliance with Regulation SCI through existing
recordkeeping requirements and examination authority, as well as through the new
recordkeeping requirement in Rule 1005 of Regulation SCI.
In addition, the Commission notes that proposed Regulation SCI consisted of a single

rule (Rule 1000) that included subparagraphs ((a) through (f)) addressing the various obligations
of the rule. However, for clarity and simplification, adopted Regulation SCI is renumbered as
Rules 1000 through 1007, as follows:
•

Adopted Rule 1000 (which corresponds to proposed Rule 1000(a)) contains definitions
for terms used in Regulation SCI;
22

•

Adopted Rule 1001 (proposed Rules 1000(b)(1)-(2)) contains the policies and procedures
requirements for SCI entities relating to both operational capability and the maintenance
of fair and orderly markets, as well as systems compliance;

•

Adopted Rule 1002 (proposed Rules 1000(b)(3)-(5)) contains the obligations of SCI
entities with respect to SCI events, which include corrective action, Commission
notification, and information dissemination;

•

Adopted Rule 1003 (proposed Rules 1000(b)(6)-(8)) contains requirements relating to
material systems changes and SCI reviews;

•

Adopted Rule 1004 (proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)) contains requirements relating to
business continuity and disaster recovery testing;

•

Adopted Rule 1005 (proposed Rule 1000(c)) contains requirements relating to
recordkeeping;

•

Adopted Rule 1006 (proposed Rule 1000(d)) contains requirements relating to electronic
filing and submission;

•
IV.

Adopted Rule 1007 (proposed Rule 1000(e)) contains requirements for service bureaus.
Description of Adopted Regulation SCI and Form SCI
A.

Definitions Establishing the Scope of Regulation SCI – Rule 1000

A series of definitions set forth in Rule 1000 relate to the scope of Regulation SCI. These
include the definitions for “SCI entity” (as well as the types of entities that are SCI entities,
namely “SCI SRO,” SCI ATS,” “plan processor,” and “exempt clearing agency subject to
ARP”), “SCI systems” (and related definitions for “indirect SCI systems” and “critical SCI

23

systems”), and “SCI event” (as well as the types of events that constitute SCI events, namely
“systems disruption,” “systems compliance issue,” and “systems intrusion”). 45
1.

SCI Entities

Regulation SCI imposes requirements on entities meeting the definition of “SCI entity”
under the rule. Proposed Rule 1000(a) defined “SCI entity” as an “SCI self-regulatory
organization, SCI alternative trading system, plan processor, or exempt clearing agency subject
to ARP.” 46 The Commission is adopting the definition of “SCI entity” in Rule 1000 as
proposed. 47
Some commenters discussed the definition of SCI entity generally and advocated for an
expansion of the proposed definition, asserting that additional categories of market participants
may have the potential to impact the market in the event of a systems issue. 48 For example, one

45

Rule 1000 contains additional defined terms that are discussed in subsequent sections
below. See infra Section IV.B.3 (discussing the definition of “responsible SCI
personnel”), Section IV.B.3.d (discussing “major SCI event” and deletion of the proposed
definition of “dissemination SCI event”), Section IV.B.4 (discussing deletion of the
proposed definition for “material systems change”), Section IV.B.5 (discussing “SCI
review” and “senior management”), and Section IV.C.2 (discussing “electronic
signature”).

46

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release supra note 13, at Section III.B.1.

47

Proposed Rule 1000(a) also defined each of the terms within the definition of SCI entity
for the purpose of designating specifically the entities that would be subject to Regulation
SCI. As described in the Sections IV.A.1.a-d below, the Commission is also adopting
these terms as proposed and without modification, with the exception of the definition of
“SCI ATS,” which is being revised to exclude ATSs that trade only municipal securities
or corporate debt securities.

48

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 8-9 and Liquidnet Letter at 2-3. See also BlackRock Letter at 4
(stating, among other things, that Regulation SCI should extend to any trading platforms
that transact significant volume because these venues have a meaningful role and impact
on the equity market). See also infra Section IV.E (discussing comments regarding the
potential inclusion of other types of entities, such as broker-dealers generally, within the
scope of Regulation SCI).

24

commenter suggested that the definition of “SCI entity” be extended to include the ATS and
broker-dealer entities covered by the Regulation NMS definition of a “trading center.” 49
Another commenter stated that the Commission should potentially expand the definition of SCI
entity to also include dark pools if they met the volume thresholds of ATSs. 50
Other commenters believed that the scope of the definition should be more limited. 51 For
example, one commenter suggested that the definition should only include those entities that are
systemically important to the functioning of the U.S. securities markets and should utilize
volume thresholds for exchanges and ATSs to make this determination. 52
Several commenters advocated the adoption of a “risk-based” approach, which would
entail categorizing market participants based on the criticality of the functions performed rather
than applying Regulation SCI to all “SCI entities” equally. 53 Some commenters suggested
replacing the term “SCI entity” with categories of participants based on potential market impact

49

Specifically, Section 600(b)(78) of Regulation NMS includes within the definition of a
“trading center” “an ATS, an exchange market maker, an OTC market maker, or any
other broker or dealer that executes orders internally by trading as principal or crossing
orders as agent.” 17 CFR 242.600(b)(68). See NYSE Letter at 8-9.

50

See CoreOne Letter at 7-9. CoreOne recommended that the Commission require dark
pools to publicly disclose their aggregate volume in a manner similar to disclosures made
by exchanges and ATSs. CoreOne stated that, once dark pools publicly disclose their
volumes, it would be easier to evaluate whether dark pools should be included as SCI
entities. Id.

51

See, e.g., KCG Letter at 6-8; ITG Letter at 2-4; and CME Letter at 2-5.

52

See ITG Letter at 2-4, 7. This commenter argued that, alternatively, the Commission
could impose a lower set of obligations on “lesser” SCI entities. See id., at 9-11. See
also infra notes 81-82 (discussing this commenter’s suggested thresholds for exchanges)
and note 131 (discussing this commenter’s recommended thresholds for ATSs). See
discussion in Sections IV.A.1.a and IV.A.1.b (relating to SCI SROs and SCI ATSs,
respectively).

53

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 5-6; SIFMA Letter at 4-5; KCG Letter at 2-3, 6-8; Fidelity
Letter at 2-4; UBS Letter at 2-4; and LiquidPoint Letter at 2-3.

25

or including in the definition only those participants that are essential to continuous market-wide
operation or that are the sole providers of a service in the securities markets. 54 Other
commenters agreed with the proposed scope of the term “SCI entity,” but believed that the
various requirements under the rule should be tiered based on risk profiles. 55 Several
commenters identified various factors that should be considered in conducting a risk-assessment
such as whether an entity is a primary listing market, is the sole market where the security is
traded, or performs a monopoly or utility type role where there is no redundancy built into the
marketplace, among others. 56 Some commenters identified specific functions that they believed
to be highly critical to the functioning of the securities markets and thus pose the greatest risk to
the markets in the event of a systems issue, including securities information processing,
clearance and settlement systems, and trading of exclusively listed securities, among others. 57
After careful consideration of the comments, the Commission has determined to adopt
the overall scope of entities covered by Regulation SCI as proposed. 58 As discussed below, the
Commission continues to believe that it is appropriate and would further the goals of the national
market system to subject all SROs (excluding securities futures exchanges), ATSs meeting
certain volume thresholds with respect to NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks (discussed further
below), plan processors, and certain exempt clearing agencies to the requirements of Regulation

54

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 3-6; Direct Edge Letter at 1-2; and KCG Letter at 2-3, 6-8.
Specifically, Direct Edge stated that SCI entities should include Commission-registered
exchanges, securities information processors under approved NMS plans for market data,
and clearance and settlement systems.

55

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 4 and Fidelity Letter at 3-4.

56

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 4 and Fidelity Letter at 3-4.

57

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 4; Direct Edge Letter at 1-2; and KCG Letter at 2-3.

58

But see infra Section IV.A.1.b (discussing revisions to the definition of “SCI ATS”).

26

SCI. The Commission believes that this definition appropriately includes those entities that play
a significant role in the U.S. securities markets and/or have the potential to impact investors, the
overall market, or the trading of individual securities. 59
While some commenters supported expanding the definition of SCI entity to encompass
various other types of entities, the Commission has determined not to expand the scope of
entities subject to Regulation SCI at this time. As noted in the SCI Proposal, Regulation SCI is
based, in part, on the ARP Inspection Program, which has included the voluntary participation of
all active registered clearing agencies, all registered national securities exchanges, the only
registered national securities association—Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”),
one exempt clearing agency, and one ATS. 60 The ARP Inspection Program has also included the
systems of entities that process and disseminate quotation and transaction data on behalf of the
Consolidated Tape Association System (“CTA Plan”), Consolidated Quotation System (“CQS
Plan”), Joint Self-Regulatory Organization Plan Governing the Collection, Consolidation, and
Dissemination of Quotation and Transaction Information for Nasdaq-Listed Securities Traded on
Exchanges on an Unlisted Trading Privileges Basis (“Nasdaq UTP Plan”), and Options Price
Reporting Authority (“OPRA Plan”). 61 Significant-volume ATSs have also been subject to
certain aspects of the ARP Policy Statements pursuant to Regulation ATS. 62 In addition, one
entity that has been granted an exemption from registration as a clearing agency has been subject
to the ARP Inspection Program pursuant to the conditions of the exemption order issued by the
59

See infra Sections IV.A.1.a-d (discussing more specifically each category of entity
included within the definition of “SCI entity”).

60

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18086.

61

See infra note 196 and accompanying text.

62

See Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS, 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6).

27

Commission.63 The scope of the definition of SCI entity is intended to largely reflect the
historical reach of the ARP Inspection Program and existing Rule 301 of Regulation ATS, while
also expanding the coverage to certain additional entities that the Commission believes play a
significant role in the U.S. securities markets and/or have the potential to impact investors, the
overall market, or the trading of individual securities. The Commission acknowledged in the
SCI Proposal that there may be other categories of entities not included within the definition of
SCI entity that, given their increasing size and importance, could pose risks to the market should
an SCI event occur. 64 However, as discussed in further detail below, 65 the Commission believes
that, at this time, the entities included within the definition of SCI entity, because of their current
role in the U.S. securities markets and/or their level of trading activity, have the potential to pose
the most significant risk in the event of a systems issue. Although some commenters suggested
that Regulation SCI should cover a greater range of market participants, 66 the Commission
believes that it is important to move forward now on rules that will meaningfully enhance the
technology standards and oversight of key markets and market infrastructure. Further, the
Commission believes that a measured approach that takes an incremental expansion from the
entities covered under the ARP Inspection Program is an appropriate method for imposing the
mandatory requirements of Regulation SCI at this time given the potential costs of compliance.
This approach will enable the Commission to monitor and evaluate the implementation of

63

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18096-97. See also infra Section IV.A.1.d
(discussing the inclusion in Regulation SCI of exempt clearing agencies subject to ARP).

64

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18138-39.

65

See infra Sections IV.A.1.a-d (discussing more specifically each category of entity
included within the definition of “SCI entity”).

66

See supra notes 48-50 and accompanying text.

28

Regulation SCI, the risks posed by the systems of other market participants, and the continued
evolution of the securities markets, such that it may consider, in the future, extending the types
of requirements in Regulation SCI to additional categories of market participants, such as nonATS broker-dealers, security-based swap dealers, investment advisers, investment companies,
transfer agents, and other key market participants. As noted in the SCI Proposal, should the
Commission decide to propose to apply some or all of the requirements of Regulation SCI to
additional types of entities, the Commission will issue a separate release discussing such a
proposal and seeking public comment. 67
With respect to another commenter’s recommendation regarding dark pools, to the extent
that this commenter intended its comment to refer to ATSs, ATSs would be included within the
scope of Regulation SCI if they met the applicable volume thresholds discussed below. 68 To the
extent that this commenter intended its comment to refer to other types of non-ATS dark venues
where broker-dealers internalize order flow, the Commission notes that it has determined not to

67

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18138.

68

See infra Section IV.A.1.b (discussing definition of “SCI ATS”). This commenter also
recommended that the Commission require dark pools to publicly disclose their aggregate
volume to make it easier to evaluate whether dark pools should be included as SCI
entities, and supported FINRA’s plans to require such trading volume disclosures. The
Commission notes that FINRA recently adopted new Rule 4552, which requires each
ATS to report to FINRA weekly volume information regarding transactions in NMS
stocks and OTC equity securities, and FINRA makes such information publicly available
on its website. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 71341 (January 17, 2014), 79
FR 4213 (January 24, 2014) (approving FINRA Rule 4552 requiring each ATS to report
to FINRA weekly volume information and number of securities transactions). The
Commission also notes that all ATSs (including dark pool ATSs) are required under
Regulation ATS to provide the Commission with quarterly trading volume information.
See Rule 301(b)(9) of Regulation ATS, 17 CFR 242.301(b)(9).
29

extend the scope of Regulation SCI to other types of broker-dealers at this time for the reasons
discussed below. 69
The Commission has also determined not to further limit the scope of entities subject to
Regulation SCI as suggested by some commenters. As discussed in more detail below, the
Commission continues to believe that each of the identified categories of entities plays a
significant role in the U.S. securities markets and/or has the potential to impact investors, the
overall market, or the trading of individual securities, and thus should be subject to the
requirements of Regulation SCI. Accordingly, the Commission does not agree that it should
adopt a “risk-based” approach to further limit the categories of market participants subject to
Regulation SCI. The Commission believes that limiting the applicability of Regulation SCI to
only the most systemically important entities posing the highest risk to the markets is too limited
of a category of market participants, as it would exclude certain entities that, in the
Commission’s view, have the potential to pose significant risks to the securities markets should
an SCI event occur. However, the Commission believes it is appropriate to incorporate riskbased considerations in various other aspects of Regulation SCI. Consistent with the views of
some commenters advocating that the requirements of Regulation SCI should be tailored to the
specific risk-profile of a particular entity or particular system, 70 the Commission notes that
Regulation SCI, as proposed, was intended to incorporate a consideration of risk within its
requirements and believes it is appropriate to more explicitly incorporate risk considerations in
various provisions of adopted Regulation SCI. For example, as discussed in further detail below,
the requirement to have reasonably designed policies and procedures relating to operational
69

See infra text accompanying notes 121-125.

70

See supra note 55 and accompanying text.

30

capability was designed to permit SCI entities to take a risk-based approach in developing their
policies and procedures based on the criticality of a particular system. 71 In addition, the
Commission believes that it is appropriate to further incorporate a risk-based approach into other
aspects of the regulation, and thus, as discussed below, is adopting a new term—“critical SCI
systems”—to identify systems that the Commission believes should be subject to heightened
requirements in certain areas. 72 Further, the Commission has determined that certain other
definitions (such as the definition of “SCI systems”), and certain requirements of the rule (such
as Commission notification for SCI events and material systems changes), should be scaled back
and refined consistent with a risk-based approach, as discussed below. The Commission
believes that these modifications, further incorporating risk-based considerations in the
requirements and scaling back certain requirements, provide the proper balance between
requiring that the appropriate entities are subject to baseline standards for systems capacity,
integrity, resiliency, availability, security, and compliance, while reducing the overall burden of
the rule for all SCI entities, which is consistent with, and responsive to, the views of those
commenters that the Commission take a more risk-based approach to SCI entities.
a.

SCI Self-Regulatory Organization or SCI SRO

Proposed Rule 1000(a) defined “SCI self-regulatory organization,” or “SCI SRO,” to be
consistent with the definition of “self-regulatory organization” set forth in Section 3(a)(26) of the
Exchange Act. 73 This definition covered all national securities exchanges registered under

71

See infra Section IV.B.1 (discussing the policies and procedures requirement under
adopted Rule 1001(a)).

72

See infra Section IV.A.2.c (discussing the definition of “critical SCI systems”).

73

See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26): “The term ‘self-regulatory organization’ means any national
securities exchange, registered securities association, or registered clearing agency, or
31

Section 6(b) of the Exchange Act, 74 registered securities associations, 75 registered clearing
agencies, 76 and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (“MSRB”). 77 The definition,

(solely for purposes of sections 19(b), 19(c), and 23(b) of this title) the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board established by section 15B of this title.”
74

Currently, these registered national securities exchanges are: (1) BATS Exchange, Inc.
(“BATS”); (2) BATS Y-Exchange, Inc. (“BATS-Y”); (3) Boston Options Exchange LLC
(“BOX”); (4) CBOE; (5) C2; (6) Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc. (“CHX”); (7) EDGA
Exchange, Inc. (“EDGA”); (8) EDGX Exchange, Inc. (“EDGX”); (9) International
Securities Exchange, LLC (“ISE”); (10) Miami International Securities Exchange, LLC
(“MIAX”); (11) NASDAQ OMX BX, Inc. (“Nasdaq OMX BX”); (12) NASDAQ OMX
PHLX LLC (“Nasdaq OMX Phlx”); (13) Nasdaq; (14) National Stock Exchange, Inc.
(“NSX”); (15) NYSE; (16) NYSE MKT; (17) NYSE Arca; and (18) ISE Gemini, LLC
(“ISE Gemini”).

75

FINRA is the only registered national securities association.

76

Currently, there are seven clearing agencies (Depository Trust Company (“DTC”); Fixed
Income Clearing Corporation (“FICC”); National Securities Clearing Corporation
(“NSCC”); Options Clearing Corporation (“OCC”); ICE Clear Credit; ICE Clear Europe;
and CME) with active operations that are registered with the Commission. The
Commission notes that in 2012 it adopted Rule 17Ad-22, which requires registered
clearing agencies to have effective risk management policies and procedures in place.
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 68080 (October 22, 2012), 77 FR 66220
(November 2, 2012) (“Clearing Agency Standards Release”). The Commission believes
that Regulation SCI, to the extent it addresses areas of risk management similar to those
addressed by Rule 17Ad-22(d)(4), complements Rule 17Ad-22(d)(4).
Additionally, on March 12, 2014, the Commission proposed rules that would apply to
SEC-registered clearing agencies that have been designated as systemically important by
the Financial Stability Oversight Council or that are involved in activities with a more
complex risk profile, such as clearing security-based swaps. See Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 71699 (Mar. 12, 2014), 79 FR 16865 (March 26, 2014) (“Covered Clearing
Agencies Proposal”). Regulation SCI and proposed Rule 17Ad-22(e)(17) are intended to
be consistent and complementary. See also Covered Clearing Agencies Proposal, 79 FR
at 16866, n.1 and accompanying text (discussing the Commission’s consideration of the
relevant international standards).

77

15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26). As noted in the Proposing Release, historically, the ARP
Inspection Program did not include the MSRB, but instead focused on entities having
trading, quotation and transaction reporting, and clearance and settlement systems more
closely connected to the equities and options markets. The Commission believes that it is
appropriate to apply Regulation SCI to the MSRB, particularly given the fact that the
MSRB is the only SRO relating to municipal securities and is a key provider of
consolidated market data for the municipal securities market. Accordingly, as proposed,
32

however, excluded an exchange that lists or trades security futures products that is noticeregistered with the Commission as a national securities exchange pursuant to Section 6(g) of the
Exchange Act, as well as any limited purpose national securities association registered with the
Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 15A(k). 78 Accordingly, the proposed definition
of SCI SRO in Rule 1000(a) included all national securities exchanges registered under Section
6(b) of the Exchange Act, all registered securities associations, all registered clearing agencies,

the term “SCI SRO” included the MSRB. In 2008, the Commission amended Rule 15c212 to designate the MSRB as the single centralized disclosure repository for continuing
municipal securities disclosure. In 2009, the MSRB established the Electronic Municipal
Market Access system (“EMMA”). EMMA now serves as the official repository of
municipal securities disclosure, providing the public with free access to relevant
municipal securities data, and is the central database for information about municipal
securities offerings, issuers, and obligors. Additionally, the MSRB’s Real-Time
Transaction Reporting System (“RTRS”), with limited exceptions, requires municipal
bond dealers to submit transaction data to the MSRB within 15 minutes of trade
execution, and such near real-time post-trade transaction data can be accessed through the
MSRB’s EMMA website. While pre-trade price information is not as readily available in
the municipal securities market, the Commission’s Report on the Municipal Securities
Market also recommended that the Commission and MSRB explore the feasibility of
enhancing EMMA to collect best bids and offers from material ATSs and make them
publicly available on fair and reasonable terms. See Report on the Municipal Securities
Market (July 31, 2012), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/news/studies/2012/munireport073112.pdf. The Commission believes
that the MSRB’s SCI systems currently are limited to those operated by or on behalf of
the MSRB that directly support market data (i.e., currently limited to the EMMA, RTRS,
and SHORT systems). As discussed more fully below, the EMMA, RTRS, and SHORT
systems referenced by the MSRB in its comment letter would be market data systems
within the definition of SCI systems because they provide or directly support price
transparency. See infra note 253 and accompanying text.
78

See 15 U.S.C. 78f(g); 15 U.S.C. 78o-3(k). These entities are security futures exchanges
and the National Futures Association, for which the CFTC serves as their primary
regulator. See generally CFTC Concept Release on Risk Controls and System
Safeguards for Automated Trading Environments, 78 FR 56542 (September 12, 2013)
(“CFTC Concept Release”) (describing the CFTC’s regulatory scheme for addressing risk
controls relating to automated systems).

33

and the MSRB. 79 The definition of “SCI self-regulatory organization” or “SCI SRO” is being
adopted in Rule 1000 as proposed. 80
One commenter suggested that the rule should include volume thresholds for
exchanges. 81 Specifically, this commenter recommended that, with regard to exchanges, the
definition should include only those exchanges that have five percent or more of average daily
dollar volume in at least five NMS stocks for four of the previous six months. 82 Another
commenter asked the Commission to adopt certain specific exceptions to the definition of SCI
SRO and SCI entity for entities that are dually registered with the CFTC and Commission where
the CFTC is the entity’s “primary regulator” and for any entity that does not play a “significant

79

For any SCI SRO that is a national securities exchange, any facility of such national
securities exchange, as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(2), also is covered because such facilities are included within the definition of
“exchange” in Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1).

80

The Commission notes that NSX ceased trading as of the close of business on May 30,
2014. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 72107 (May 2, 2014), 79 FR 27017
(May 12, 2014) (Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change
To Cease Trading on Its Trading System) (“NSX Trading Cessation Notice”). In the
NSX Trading Cessation Notice, NSX stated: “[T]he Exchange will continue to be
registered as a national securities exchange and will continue to retain its status as a selfregulatory organization[;]” and further, that it “shall file a proposed rule change pursuant
to Rule 19b-4 of the Exchange Act prior to any resumption of trading on the Exchange
pursuant to Chapter XI (Trading Rules).” Because NSX remains a national securities
exchange registered under Section 6(b) of the Exchange Act, it continues to meet the
definition of SCI entity, and is counted as an SCI entity for purposes of this release.

81

See ITG Letter at 10. This commenter also suggested similar revised thresholds for SCI
ATSs. See also infra note 131 and accompanying text. Although only one commenter
specifically commented on the proposed inclusion of SCI SROs within the scope of
Regulation SCI, as discussed above, some commenters believed that Regulation SCI
should generally take a more risk-based or tiered approach generally which, in some
cases, would affect which entities (including SCI SROs) would be subject to Regulation
SCI. See supra notes 53-56 and accompanying text.

82

See ITG Letter at 10.

34

role” in the markets subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction and that cannot have a “significant
impact” on the markets subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction. 83
The Commission does not believe that a trading volume threshold is appropriate for SCI
SROs that are exchanges, but instead believes that Regulation SCI should apply to all SCI SROs.
The threshold suggested by the commenter would exclude from Regulation SCI those exchanges
with volumes below the suggested threshold; however, the Commission believes that all
exchanges play a significant role in our securities markets. For example, all stock exchanges are
subject to a variety of specific public obligations under the Exchange Act, including the
requirements of Regulation NMS which, among other things, designates the best bid or offer of
such exchanges to be protected quotations. 84 Accordingly, every exchange may have a protected
quotation that can obligate market participants to send orders to that exchange. Among other
reasons, given that market participants may be required to send orders to any one of the
exchanges at any given time if such exchange is displaying the best bid or offer, the Commission
believes that it is important that the safeguards of Regulation SCI apply equally to all exchanges
irrespective of trading volume.

83

See CME Letter at 2.

84

See generally 17 CFR 242.600-612. In addition, as the commenter’s suggested
thresholds would apply only with respect to exchanges that trade NMS stocks, national
securities exchanges that do not trade NMS stocks (i.e., options exchanges) would also be
excluded from Regulation SCI under the commenter’s suggestion. The Commission
believes that it would be inappropriate to exclude options exchanges from the
requirements of Regulation SCI, because technology risks are equally applicable to such
exchanges, as evidenced by recent significant technology incidents affecting the options
markets. See supra notes 28-31 and accompanying text. As such, systems issues at
options exchanges can pose significant risks to the markets, and the Commission believes
that the inclusion of options exchanges within the scope of Regulation SCI is necessary to
achieve the goals of Regulation SCI.

35

With regard to one commenter’s suggestion to except from the definition of SCI SRO
those entities dually registered with the CFTC and Commission where the CFTC is the entity’s
“primary regulator,” 85 the Commission disagrees that such entities should be relieved from the
requirements of Regulation SCI solely because they are dually registered. 86 While the CFTC is
responsible for overseeing such an entity with regard to its futures activities, it does not have
oversight responsibility for the entity’s securities-related activities and systems. While the
commenter stated that it (as a dual registrant) is already subject to similar requirements to adopt
controls and procedures with regard to operational risk and reliability, security, and capacity of
its systems pursuant to CFTC regulations, the Commission again notes that such requirements do

85

See supra note 83 and accompanying text.

86

The commenter notes that the Commission has proposed to exclude from the definition of
SCI SRO those exchanges that list or trade security futures products that are noticeregistered with the Commission pursuant to Section 6(g), as well as limited purpose
national securities associations registered with the Commission pursuant to Exchange Act
Section 15A(k). See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18093, n. 97 and
accompanying text. The Commission notes that such entities are subject to the joint
jurisdiction of the Commission and the CFTC. To avoid duplicative regulation, however,
the CFMA established a system of notice registration under which trading facilities and
intermediaries that are already registered with either the Commission or the CFTC may
register with the other agency on an expedited basis for the limited purpose of trading
security futures products. A “notice registrant” is then subject to primary oversight by
one agency, and is exempted under the CFMA from all but certain specified provisions of
the laws administered by the other agency. See Section 6(g)(4) and Section 15A(k)(3)(4) (enumerating the provisions of the Exchange Act from which a notice-registered
exchange and limited purpose national securities association, respectively, are exempted).
Given this, the Commission believes that it is appropriate to defer to the CFTC regarding
the systems integrity of these entities). See also generally CFTC Concept Release, supra
note 78. This regulatory scheme does not apply outside of the specific contexts of
security futures exchanges and associations. In contrast, entities that are registered with
both the Commission and the CFTC in other capacities, such as clearing agencies, are
subject to a full set of regulations by each regulator. The Exchange Act and Commodity
Exchange Act do not exempt these entities, due to any dual regulatory scheme, from any
provisions of the laws administered by the Commission and, as discussed further below,
the Commission believes they should not be afforded an exclusion from Regulation SCI.

36

not apply to such an entity’s securities-related systems as such systems are outside of the
CFTC’s jurisdiction and, as such, such systems would not be subject to inspection and
examination by the CFTC for compliance with such requirements. 87 Further, Regulation SCI
imposes a notification framework to inform the Commission of SCI events and material systems
changes, as well as other requirements unique to Regulation SCI. Accordingly, the Commission
believes that such entities should be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI. In addition,
as noted above, this commenter also asked the Commission to create an exception for any entity
that does not play a “significant role” in the markets subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction and
that cannot have a “significant impact” on the markets subject to the Commission’s
jurisdiction. 88 While the Commission disagrees with excluding SROs from coverage as
discussed above, the Commission notes that it is revising the proposed definition of SCI systems
to clarify that the term SCI systems encompasses only those systems that, with respect to
securities, directly support trading, clearance and settlement, order routing, market data, market
regulation, or market surveillance, as discussed below. 89 Accordingly, the Commission believes
this change should address the commenter’s concerns about the requirements applying to entities

87

The Commission notes that, to the extent that such an entity’s systems for its functions
that fall in the purview of the Commission (relating to securities and securities-based
swaps) and that fall in the purview of the CFTC (relating to futures and swaps) are
integrated, it believes that the focus of the CFTC’s exams and inspections of such
systems would be on such systems’ functionality related to non-securities-related
activities, such as swaps or futures, and not those related to securities activities. Thus,
the Commission believes that the potential examination and inspection of such integrated
systems by both the CFTC and SEC does not support the exclusion of the SCI entities
operating such systems, or the systems themselves, from the scope of Regulation SCI.

88

See supra note 83 and accompanying text.

89

See adopted Rule 1000 (emphasis added). See also infra Section IV.A.2.b (discussing the
definition of “SCI systems”).
37

whose systems cannot affect the markets subject to the Commission’s jurisdiction, i.e., the U.S.
securities markets.
b.

SCI Alternative Trading System

Proposed Rule 1000(a) defined the term “SCI alternative trading system,” or “SCI ATS,”
as an alternative trading system, as defined in § 242.300(a), which during at least four of the
preceding six calendar months, had: (1) with respect to NMS stocks – (i) five percent or more in
any single NMS stock, and 0.25 percent or more in all NMS stocks, of the average daily dollar
volume reported by an effective transaction reporting plan, or (ii) one percent or more, in all
NMS stocks, of the average daily dollar volume reported by an effective transaction reporting
plan; (2) with respect to equity securities that are not NMS stocks and for which transactions are
reported to a self-regulatory organization, five percent or more of the average daily dollar
volume as calculated by the self-regulatory organization to which such transactions are reported;
or (3) with respect to municipal securities or corporate debt securities, five percent or more of
either – (i) the average daily dollar volume traded in the United States, or (ii) the average daily
transaction volume traded in the United States. 90
The proposed definition would have modified the thresholds currently appearing in Rule
301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS that apply to significant-volume ATSs. 91 Specifically, the
proposed definition would have: used average daily dollar volume thresholds, instead of an
average daily share volume threshold, for ATSs that trade NMS stocks or equity securities that
are not NMS stocks (“non-NMS stocks”); used alternative average daily dollar and transaction
volume-based tests for ATSs that trade municipal securities or corporate debt securities; lowered
90

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.B.1.

91

17 CFR 242.301(b)(6).

38

the volume thresholds applicable to ATSs for each category of asset class; and moved the
proposed thresholds to Regulation SCI. In particular, with respect to NMS stocks, the
Commission proposed to change the volume threshold from 20 percent of average daily volume
in any NMS stock such that an ATS that traded NMS stocks that met either of the following two
alternative threshold tests would be subject to the requirements of proposed Regulation SCI: (i)
five percent or more in any NMS stock, and 0.25 percent or more in all NMS stocks, of the
average daily dollar volume reported by an effective transaction reporting plan; or (ii) one
percent or more, in all NMS stocks, of the average daily dollar volume reported by an effective
transaction reporting plan. With respect to non-NMS stocks, municipal securities, and corporate
debt securities, the Commission proposed to reduce the standard from 20 percent to five percent
for these types of securities, 92 the same percentage threshold for such types of securities that
triggers the fair access provisions of Rule 301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS. 93
The proposed definition of “SCI ATS” is being adopted substantially as proposed with
regard to ATSs trading NMS stocks and ATSs trading non-NMS stocks, with the addition of a
six-month compliance period for entities satisfying the thresholds in the definition for the first
time, as discussed in more detail below. However, for the reasons discussed below, the
Commission has determined to exclude from the definition of “SCI ATS” ATSs that trade only
municipal securities or corporate debt securities and accordingly, such ATSs will not be subject
to the requirements of Regulation SCI.

92

See proposed Rule 1000(a).

93

See Rule 301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS under the Exchange Act. 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5).
In addition, as noted above, the proposed rule used alternative average daily dollar and
transaction volume-based tests for ATSs that trade municipal securities or corporate debt
securities.

39

Inclusion of ATSs Generally
Many commenters provided comment on the inclusion of ATSs within the scope of
Regulation SCI. Some commenters believed that more ATSs should be covered by Regulation
SCI. 94 For example, some commenters suggested that the term “SCI ATS” should include all
ATSs, because these commenters believed that they have the potential to negatively impact the
market in the event of a systems issue. 95 Moreover, one commenter stated that the Commission
should not distinguish between ATSs based on calculated thresholds because an ATS might limit
trading on its system so as to avoid being subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI. 96
Conversely, other commenters stated that fewer, or even no, ATSs should be covered. 97
Such commenters generally argued that there are key differences between ATSs and exchanges,
and thus, ATSs should be regulated differently from exchanges and not be included in
Regulation SCI with exchanges. 98 The differences identified by commenters included: ATSs’
relative market shares and sizes; the fact that ATSs are already subject to various regulations as
broker-dealers (including Rule 15c3-5 under the Exchange Act, various FINRA rules, and
Regulation ATS); and certain fundamental economic differences between the two types of
entities (including that exchanges can gain revenue from listing and market data, have selfclearing, and have a protected quote). 99 One commenter argued that, if the Commission were to
94

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 9-10; Lauer Letter at 4; and CoreOne Letter at 7-8.

95

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 9-10; and Lauer Letter at 4.

96

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 9-10.

97

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 3; ITG Letter at 3; KCG Letter at 8; and OTC Markets Letter at
9.

98

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 3; ITG Letter at 3; KCG Letter at 9, 14-17; TMC Letter at 2; and
OTC Markets Letter at 9.

99

Id.

40

include ATSs in Regulation SCI, it should treat ATSs and SROs equally by allowing ATSs to
have the same benefits of SROs, including allowing ATSs to derive an income stream from
contributions to the SIP, have access to clearing, and have immunity from lawsuits. 100 Other
commenters also noted that, although ATSs have an increasingly large, collective market share,
ATSs have not contributed to any of the recent major systems issues that have impacted the
market. 101
Another commenter stated that the SCI Proposal unfairly discriminated against ATSs by
including them within the definition of SCI entity. 102 Specifically, although this commenter did
not believe that Regulation SCI should be expanded to include more entities, it stated that the
SCI Proposal’s failure to capture certain entities (such as clearing firms, market makers, block
positioners, and order routing firms) that it believed could have a greater impact on market
stability in the event of a systems issue, while including ATSs, demonstrates that the proposal is
arbitrary, capricious, and unfairly discriminatory in nature. 103
After careful consideration of the comment letters, the Commission continues to believe
that the inclusion of ATSs that trade NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks in Regulation SCI is
appropriate. 104 The Commission believes that certain of those ATSs play an important role in

100

See OTC Markets Letter at 9.

101

See ITG Letter at 4; and BIDS Letter at 3.

102

See ITG Letter at 9.

103

See id.

104

Given the inclusion of ATSs that trade NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks within the
scope of Regulation SCI, Regulation ATS is also being amended to remove paragraphs
(b)(6)(i)(A) and (b)(6)(i)(B) of Rule 301 so that Rule 301(b)(6) will no longer apply to
ATSs trading NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks. However, as described below, the
Commission has determined to exclude ATSs that trade only municipal securities or
corporate debt securities from the scope of Regulation SCI, and such ATSs will remain
41

today’s securities markets, and thus should be subject to the safeguards and obligations of
Regulation SCI. As noted in the SCI Proposal, the equity markets have evolved significantly
over recent years, resulting in an increase in the number of trading centers and a reduction in the
concentration of trading activity. 105 As such, even smaller trading centers, such as certain
higher-volume ATSs, now collectively represent a significant source of liquidity for NMS stocks
and some ATSs have similar and, in some cases, greater trading volume than some national
securities exchanges, with no single national securities exchange executing more than
approximately 19 percent of volume in NMS stocks in today’s securities markets. 106
Accordingly, the Commission believes that ATSs meeting certain volume thresholds can play a
significant role in the securities markets and, given their heavy reliance on automated systems,
have the potential to significantly impact investors, the overall market, and the trading of
individual securities should an SCI event occur.
Commenters identified certain differences between exchanges and ATSs, which
commenters argued justified different treatment under Regulation SCI for ATSs or exclusion of
ATSs from the regulation completely. 107 While the Commission recognizes that there are some
fundamental differences between ATSs and exchanges, including certain of those identified by

subject to the requirements of Rule 301(b)(6) if they meet the volume thresholds therein.
17 CFR 242.301(b)(6). See supra notes 14 and 20 and accompanying text.
105

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18094.

106

See market volume statistics reported by BATS, available at:
http://www.batstrading.com/market_summary/ (no single stock exchange executed more
than approximately 19 percent during the second quarter of 2014, with Nasdaq having the
highest market share of 18.6 percent). In comparison, according to data from Form ATSR for the second quarter of 2014, approximately 18 percent of consolidated NMS stocks
dollar volume took place on ATSs.

107

See supra notes 98-99 and accompanying text.

42

commenters, the Commission does not agree that all ATSs should be excluded from Regulation
SCI because, as discussed above, it believes that there are certain significant-volume ATSs that
have the potential to significantly impact investors, the overall market, or the trading of
individual securities should an SCI event occur. At the same time, the risk-based considerations
permitted in adopted Regulation SCI may result in the systems of those ATSs that are subject to
Regulation SCI (i.e., SCI ATSs) being subject to less stringent requirements than the systems of
SROs or other SCI entities in certain areas. For example, as discussed in further detail below,
the Commission is adopting a definition of “critical SCI systems,” which are a subset of SCI
systems that are subject to certain heightened requirements under Regulation SCI. This
definition is intended to capture those systems that are core to the functioning of the securities
markets or that represent “single points of failure” and thus, pose the greatest risk to the markets.
The Commission believes that, as currently constituted, relative to the systems of SCI SROs, the
systems of SCI ATSs generally would not fall within this category of critical SCI systems, and
thus such SCI ATSs would not be subject to the more stringent requirements that would be
applicable to the critical SCI systems of other SCI entities. The Commission also notes that
other requirements under Regulation SCI are designed to be consistent with a risk-based
approach. The Commission believes that this approach recognizes the different roles played by
different SCI systems at various SCI entities and, where permitted, allows each SCI entity,
including SCI ATSs, to tailor the applicable requirements accordingly.
While some commenters noted that ATSs have not contributed to any of the recent highprofile systems issues, 108 the Commission does not believe that the relative lack of high-profile

108

See supra note 101 and accompanying text.

43

systems issues at ATSs to date is an indication that ATSs do not have the potential to have a
significant impact on the market in the event of a future systems issue. 109
Other commenters noted the competitive environment of ATSs and argued that, if one
ATS experiences a systems issue and becomes temporarily unavailable, trading can be easily
rerouted to other venues. 110 The Commission acknowledges that a temporary outage at an ATS
(or at a SCI SRO, for that matter) may not lead to a widespread systemic disruption. However,
the Commission notes that Regulation SCI is not designed to solely address system issues that
cause widespread systemic disruption, but also to address more limited systems malfunctions and
other issues that can harm market participants or create compliance issues. 111
Some commenters also stated that inclusion of ATSs is not necessary because ATSs are
already subject to sufficient regulations as broker-dealers, citing Rule 15c3-5 under the
Exchange Act, various FINRA rules, and Regulation ATS. 112 While the Commission
acknowledges that these rules similarly impose requirements related to the capacity, integrity
and/or security of a broker-dealer’s systems and are designed to address some of the same
concerns that Regulation SCI is intended to address, the Commission notes that these rules
generally take a different approach than Regulation SCI. For example, the obligations of an ATS
under Rule 15c3-5 address vulnerability in the national market system that relate specifically to
109

The Commission also notes that, as discussed above, in November 2013, a systems issue
at OTC Link ATS led FINRA to halt trading in all OTC securities for over three hours.
See supra note 33 and accompanying text.

110

See ITG Letter at 3; and KCG Letter at 9.

111

The Commission notes that each ATS provides different services in terms of, among
other things, pricing, latency, and order fills to meet investors’ specific needs. Thus, for
example, an ATS outage could interfere with the supply of certain services that investors
demand and, thus, could impose costs on investors.

112

See supra notes 98-99 and accompanying text.

44

market access, 113 whereas Regulation SCI is designed to further the goals of the national market
system more broadly by helping to ensure the capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and
security of the automated systems of entities important to the functioning of the U.S. securities
markets. 114 Thus, the Commission has determined to include ATSs within the scope of
Regulation SCI because of their role as markets and a potential significant source of liquidity.
With regard to the FINRA rules identified by commenters, the Commission does not believe that
these rules, even when considered in combination with Rule 15c3-5, are an appropriate substitute
for the comprehensive approach in Regulation SCI for ATSs in their role as markets. 115 Finally,

113

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 63241 (November 3, 2010), 75 FR 69792
(November 15, 2010) (“Market Access Release”).

114

The Commission notes that Rule 15c3-5 focuses on addressing the particular risks that
arise when broker-dealers provide electronic access to exchanges or ATSs and therefore
does not address the same range of technology-related issues as Regulation SCI is
designed to address. Both Rule 15c3-5 and Regulation SCI are policies and proceduresbased rules that are designed to address the risks presented by the pervasive use of
technology in today’s markets. The policies and procedures required by Regulation SCI
apply broadly to technology that supports trading, clearance and settlement, order
routing, market data, market regulation, and market surveillance and, among other things,
address their overall capacity, integrity, resilience, availability, and security. Rule 15c35, by contrast, is more narrowly focused on those technology and other errors that can
create some of the more significant risks to broker-dealers and the markets, namely those
that arise when a broker-dealer enters orders into an exchange or ATS, including when it
provides sponsored or direct market access to customers or other persons, where the
consequences of such an error can rapidly magnify and spread throughout the
markets. See also infra note 115 (discussing FINRA rules applicable to broker-dealers).
The Commission will continue to monitor and evaluate the risks posed by broker-dealer
systems to the market and the implementation of the Market Access Rule, and may
consider extending the types of requirements in Regulation SCI to additional market
participants in the future.

115

For example, NASD Rule 3010(b)(1) requires a member to establish, maintain, and
enforce written procedures to supervise the types of business in which it engages and to
supervise the activities of registered representatives, registered principals, and other
associated persons that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws and regulations. This rule relates to policies and procedures to achieve
compliance with applicable securities laws and regulations, and thus the Commission
45

as noted above, Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS imposed by rule certain aspects of the ARP
Policy Statements on significant-volume ATSs. As described in detail herein, Regulation SCI
seeks to expand upon, update, and modernize the requirements of the ARP Policy Statements and
Rule 301(b)(6), by, for example, expanding the requirements to a broader set of systems,

believes that this requirement is broadly related to adopted Rule 1001(b) regarding
policies and procedures to ensure systems compliance. However, the Commission notes
that, unlike adopted Rule 1001(b), which focuses on ensuring that an entity’s systems
operate in compliance with the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder and
the entity’s rules and governing documents, this NASD rule does not specifically address
compliance of the systems of FINRA members. Further, the Commission does not
believe this provision covers more broadly policies and procedures akin to those in
adopted Rule 1001(a) that are designed to ensure that SCI systems have levels of
capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security adequate to maintain the SCI
entity’s operation capability and promote fair and orderly markets. Similarly, while
FINRA Rule 3130 relates to adopted Rule 1001(b) regarding policies and procedures to
ensure systems compliance in that it requires a member’s chief compliance officer to
certify that the member has in place written policies and procedures reasonably designed
to achieve compliance with applicable FINRA rules, MSRB rules, and federal securities
laws and regulations, it does not specifically address compliance of the systems of
FINRA members, and does not require similar policies and procedures to those in
adopted Rule 1001(a) regarding operational capability of SCI entities. Further, while
FINRA Rule 4530 imposes a reporting regime for, among other things, compliance issues
and other events where a member has concluded or should have reasonably concluded
that a violation of securities or other enumerated law, rule, or regulation of any domestic
or foreign regulatory body or SRO has occurred, the Commission notes that these
reporting requirements are different in several respects from the Commission notification
requirements relating to systems compliance issues (e.g., scope, timing, content, the
recipient of the reports) and, importantly, would not cover reporting of systems
disruptions or systems intrusions that did not also involve a violation of a securities law,
rule, or regulation. In addition, FINRA Rule 4370 generally requires that a member
maintain a written continuity plan identifying procedures relating to an emergency or
significant business disruption, which is akin to adopted Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) requiring
policies and procedures for business continuity and disaster recovery plans. Unlike
Regulation SCI, however, the FINRA rule does not include the requirement that the
business continuity and disaster recovery plans be reasonably designed to achieve next
business day resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of critical SCI systems
following a wide-scale disruption, nor does it require the functional and performance
testing and coordination of industry or sector-testing of such plans, which the
Commission believes to be instrumental in achieving the goals of Regulation SCI with
respect to SCI entities.

46

imposing new requirements for information dissemination regarding SCI events, and requiring
Commission notification for additional types of events, among others. Accordingly, the
Commission believes that, for SCI ATSs, the existing broker-dealer rules and regulations
identified by commenters are complemented by the requirements of Regulation SCI (other than
Rule 301(b)(6), which will no longer apply to ATSs that trade NMS stocks and non-NMS
stocks), and do not serve as substitutes for the regulatory framework being adopted today.
The Commission also believes that, unlike with respect to exchanges, it is appropriate
that Regulation SCI not apply to all ATSs. Exchanges, as self-regulatory organizations, play a
special role in the U.S. securities markets, and as such, are subject to certain requirements under
the Exchange Act and are able to enjoy certain unique benefits. 116 Accordingly, as discussed
above, the Commission believes it is appropriate to subject all national securities exchanges to
the requirements of Regulation SCI regardless of trading volume. 117 In contrast, in recognition
of the more limited role that certain ATSs may play in the securities markets and the costs that
will result from compliance with the requirements of the regulation, the Commission believes
that it is appropriate to adopt volume thresholds, as discussed below, to identify those ATSs that
have the potential to significantly impact the market should an SCI event occur, therefore
warranting inclusion within the scope of the regulation. One commenter, in advocating for the
application of the regulation to all ATSs, stated that the Commission should not adopt volume
116

See supra Section IV.A.1.a (discussing the definition of “SCI SRO”) and infra notes 120121 and accompanying text. As identified by one commenter, benefits afforded to SROs
include, among others, the ability to receive market data revenue and immunity from
private liability for regulatory activities. See supra note 100. See also ATS Release,
supra note 2, at 70902-03 (discussing generally some of the obligations and benefits to be
considered when determining whether to register as a national securities exchange or as a
broker-dealer acting as an ATS).

117

See supra notes 81-83 and accompanying text.

47

thresholds because ATSs may limit trading so as to avoid being subject to the requirements of
Regulation SCI. 118 The Commission does not believe that the possibility of some ATSs
structuring their business to fall below the thresholds of the rule is a sufficient justification for
applying the rule to all ATSs. The Commission notes that, to the extent that an ATS limits its
trading so as not to reach the volume thresholds for SCI ATSs, it would have less potential to
impact investors and the market and may appropriately not be subject to the requirements of the
rules. As discussed further below, the Commission believes that the dual dollar volume
threshold for NMS stocks being adopted today is appropriately designed to ensure that ATSs that
have either the potential to significantly impact the market as a whole or the potential to
significantly impact the market for a single NMS stock (and have some impact on the market as
a whole at the same time) will be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI. Thus, only
those ATSs that limit their trading so as to fall below both the single NMS stock threshold and
the broad NMS stocks threshold will not be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI.
As noted above, one commenter asserted that, if ATSs are subject to the same
requirements of Regulation SCI as exchanges, they similarly should be entitled to the benefits
afforded to SROs. 119 The Commission notes that, as discussed above, SROs are subject to a
variety of obligations as self-regulatory organizations under the Exchange Act—including filing
proposed rules with the Commission and enforcing those rules and the federal securities laws
with respect to their members—that do not apply to other market participants, including

118

See supra notes 95-96 and accompanying text.

119

See supra note 100 and accompanying text.

48

ATSs. 120 Although SRO and non-SRO markets are subject to different regulatory regimes, with
a different mix of benefits and obligations, the Commission believes it is appropriate to subject
them to comparable requirements for purposes of Regulation SCI given the importance of
assuring that the technology of key trading centers, regardless of regulatory status, is reliable,
secure, and functions in compliance with the law. 121 At the same time, while questions have
been raised as to whether the broader regulatory regimes for exchanges and ATSs should be
harmonized, the Commission does not believe it appropriate to delay implementing Regulation
SCI or necessary to resolve these issues before proceeding with Regulation SCI. The
Commission notes that ATSs have the ability to apply for registration as a SRO should they so
wish and, if such application were to be approved by the Commission, such entities could
assume the additional responsibilities that are imposed on SROs, as well as avail themselves of
the same benefits.
As noted above, one commenter objected to the regulation’s inclusion of ATSs while
excluding certain other entities that the commenter believed similarly had the potential to impact
the market, concluding that the proposal was therefore arbitrary, capricious, and unfairly
discriminatory in nature. 122 At the same time, this commenter stated that it did not recommend

120

See supra Section IV.A.1.a (discussing the definition of “SCI SRO”); see also Section
19(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), and Section 6(b) of the Exchange Act, 15
U.S.C. 78f(b). Because these important regulatory responsibilities are imposed upon
SROs, SROs also are afforded certain unique benefits, such as immunity from private
liability with respect to their regulatory functions and the ability to receive market data
revenue. See supra note 116 and accompanying text.

121

But see discussion supra regarding potentially different requirements for ATSs and
exchanges, including those relating to SCI ATSs and critical SCI systems.

122

See supra note 103 and accompanying text.

49

that additional entities be included within the scope of the regulation. 123 First, as noted above,
the Commission has determined to include ATSs meeting the adopted volume thresholds within
the scope of Regulation SCI because of their unique role as markets rather than because of their
role as traditional broker-dealers. All broker-dealers are subject to Rule 15c3-5 and other
FINRA rules as noted by some commenters, which impose certain requirements related to the
capacity, integrity and/or security of a broker-dealer’s systems appropriately tailored to their role
as broker-dealers. Further, as noted above, the scope of Regulation SCI is rooted in the historical
reach of the ARP Inspection Program and Rule 301 of Regulation ATS (which applies to
significant-volume ATSs). 124 The Commission acknowledged in the SCI Proposal that there
may be other categories of broker-dealers not included within the definition of SCI entity that,
given their increasing size and importance, could pose a significant risk to the market should an
SCI event occur. 125 The Commission solicited comment on whether there are additional
categories of market participants that should be subject to all or some of the requirements of
Regulation SCI and noted that, were the Commission to decide to apply the requirements of
Regulation SCI to such additional entities, it would issue a separate release outlining such a
proposal and the rationale therefor. 126 As discussed above, the Commission believes that, at this
time, the entities included within the scope of Regulation SCI, because of their current role in the
U.S. securities markets and/or their level of trading activity, have the potential to pose the most
significant risk in the event of a systems issue. Further, the Commission believes that a

123

See supra note 103 and accompanying text.

124

See supra notes 60-67 and accompanying text.

125

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18138-39.

126

See id.

50

measured approach that takes an incremental expansion from the entities covered under the ARP
Inspection Program is an appropriate method for imposing the mandatory requirements of
Regulation SCI at this time. As such, while the Commission believes that the types of entities
subject to Regulation SCI as adopted are appropriate, the Commission may consider extending
the types of requirements in Regulation SCI to additional market participants in the future.
SCI ATS Thresholds
Several commenters discussed the specific proposed volume thresholds for SCI ATSs,
and many offered what they believed to be more appropriate alternative methods for including
ATSs within Regulation SCI. 127 For example, some commenters urged the Commission to retain
the existing 20 percent threshold under Regulation ATS for purposes of Regulation SCI or asked
the Commission to provide further explanation as to why the current threshold under Regulation
ATS should be altered. 128 One commenter agreed with the Commission that the 20 percent
threshold currently in Regulation ATS might be too high, and suggested using a threshold for
ATSs trading NMS stocks of five percent or more of the volume in all NMS stocks during a 12month period, to be determined once a year in the same given month. 129 Another commenter
suggested that the Commission apply its ATS threshold for NMS stocks to only the 500 most
active securities. 130 An additional recommendation by one commenter with regard to NMS
stocks was to include only those ATSs with five percent or more of at least five NMS stocks with
127

See, e.g., Direct Edge Letter at 2; SIFMA Letter at 6-7; BIDS Letter at 6; ITG Letter at
10; and OTC Markets Letter at 11. But see BlackRock Letter at 4 (agreeing with the
Commission’s approach in the SCI Proposal of lowering the thresholds for SCI ATSs
from the thresholds in Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS).

128

See, e.g., Direct Edge Letter at 2; and KCG Letter at 10-11.

129

See SIFMA Letter at 6.

130

See BIDS Letter at 6.

51

an aggregate average daily share volume greater than 500,000 shares and 0.25 percent or more of
all NMS stocks for four of the previous six months, or those ATSs that have three percent or
more of all NMS stocks in four of the previous six months. 131 Another commenter suggested
retaining Rule 301(b)(6) as part of Regulation ATS, but amending the rule by lowering the
average daily volume threshold to 2.5 percent. 132
One commenter requested clarification on the phrase “0.25 percent or more in all NMS
stocks, of the average daily dollar volume reported by an effective transaction reporting plan.” 133
Because there is more than one transaction reporting plan, this commenter asked whether the
proposed volume thresholds would be calculated per plan or calculated based on all NMS
volume. 134
Some commenters provided suggestions with regard to the proposed measurement
methodology for the thresholds. 135 A few commenters argued that the proposed time period
measurement of “at least four of the preceding six calendar months” is cumbersome to apply in
practice and believed that the time period should be over a longer term. 136 For example, two
commenters stated that the rule should utilize a 12-month measurement period. 137 Conversely,
another commenter generally opposed the thresholds stating that all ATSs should be subject to

131

See ITG Letter at 10.

132

See OTC Markets Letter at 11. This commenter also suggested leaving in place the
existing five percent average daily share volume threshold for the display requirement of
Rule 301(b)(3) under Regulation ATS.

133

See SIFMA Letter at 6-7.

134

See SIFMA Letter at 6-7.

135

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 6; KCG Letter at 19; SIFMA Letter at 7; and Lauer Letter at 4-5.

136

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 6; and KCG Letter at 19.

137

See BIDS Letter at 6; and KCG Letter at 19.

52

the rule, but noted that if the rule includes a trading volume metric, the measurement period
should be much shorter (such as two to four weeks). 138 In addition, one commenter stated that
the measurement should be based on number of shares traded rather than dollar value. 139
Two commenters also suggested that ATSs should be given six months after meeting the
given threshold in the definition of SCI ATS to come into compliance with Regulation SCI. 140
The Commission is adopting the thresholds for ATSs that trade NMS stocks and nonNMSs stock as proposed. In setting the thresholds for Regulation SCI, the Commission believes
it is establishing an appropriate and reasonable scope for the application of the regulation.
Although commenters provided various suggestions for different thresholds, nothing persuaded
the Commission that these suggestions would better accomplish the goals of Regulation SCI than
the thresholds the Commission is adopting. As discussed below, the Commission has analyzed
the number of entities it believes are likely to be covered by the thresholds it is establishing. The
Commission recognizes that these thresholds ultimately represent a matter of judgment by the
Commission as it takes the step of promulgating Regulation SCI, and the Commission intends to
monitor these thresholds to determine whether they continue to be appropriate.
With regard to the threshold for ATSs trading NMS stocks, the Commission has
determined to adopt this threshold as proposed. After careful consideration of the comments, the
Commission continues to believe that this threshold is an appropriate measure of when a market
is of sufficient significance so as to warrant the protections and requirements of Regulation

138

See Lauer Letter at 4-5.

139

See BIDS Letter at 6.

140

See KCG Letter at 19; and SIFMA Letter at 7.

53

SCI. 141 The Commission is, however, making one technical modification in response to a
commenter to clarify that the threshold will be calculated based on all NMS volume, rather than
on a per plan basis. 142 The Commission agrees with the commenter that the proposed language
should be clarified and, as such, the threshold language within the definition of “SCI ATS” in
Rule 1000 is being revised to refer to “applicable effective transaction reporting plans,” rather
than “an effective transaction reporting plan.” 143
Under the adopted definition of SCI ATS, with regard to NMS stocks, an ATS will be
subject to Regulation SCI if, during at least four of the preceding six calendar months, it had: (i)
five percent or more in any single NMS stock, and 0.25 percent or more in all NMS stocks, of
the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable effective transaction reporting plans, or
(ii) one percent or more, in all NMS stocks, of the average daily dollar volume reported by

141

The numerical thresholds in the definition of SCI ATS reflect an informed assessment by
the Commission, based on qualitative and quantitative analysis, of the likely economic
consequences of the specific numerical thresholds included in the definition. In making
such assessment and, in turn, selecting the numerical thresholds, in addition to
considering the views of commenters, the Commission has reviewed relevant data. See
infra notes 150 and 175 and accompanying text.

142

See supra note 134 and accompanying text. As noted above, this commenter asked the
Commission for clarification on this aspect of the rule.

143

Because the threshold has two prongs, one of which is based on all NMS volume, it is
necessary to specify that there is more than one transaction reporting plan that would be
applicable in calculating all NMS stock trading volume. At the same time, since the
other prong of the threshold is based on the trading volume of single NMS stocks, it is
necessary to also add the term “applicable” before the term “transaction reporting plans”
as only one transaction reporting plan would be applicable per security. The definition of
“eligible securities” in each of the transaction reporting plans are mutually exclusive,
ensuring that each security is subject to only one transaction reporting plan. See CTA
Plan, available at: http://www.nyxdata.com/cta; and Nasdaq UTP Plan, available at:
http://www.utpplan.com.

54

applicable effective transaction reporting plans. 144 The Commission continues to believe that
this threshold will identify those ATSs that could have a significant impact on the overall market
or that could have a significant impact on a single NMS stock and some impact on the market as
a whole at the same time. 145
While some commenters advocated for thresholds higher than those proposed and/or
retaining the 20 percent threshold in Regulation ATS, 146 as the Commission discussed in the SCI
Proposal, the securities markets have significantly evolved since the time of the adoption of
Regulation ATS, resulting in trading activity in stocks being more dispersed among a variety of
trading centers. For example, in today’s markets, national securities exchanges, once the
predominant type of venue for trading stocks, each account for no more than approximately 19
percent of volume in NMS stocks. 147 By way of contrast, based on data collected from ATSs
pursuant to FINRA Rule 4552 for 18 weeks of trading in 2014, the trading volume of ATSs
accounted for approximately 18 percent of the total dollar volume in NMS stocks, with no
individual ATS executing more than five percent. 148 Given this dispersal of trading volume
among an increasing number of trading venues, the increasingly interconnected nature of the
markets, and the increasing reliance on a variety of automated systems, the Commission believes
that there is a heightened potential for systems issues originating from a number of sources to

144

But see infra notes 169-170 and accompanying text (discussing a six-month compliance
period for SCI entities satisfying the thresholds for the first time).

145

Under the adopted thresholds, because of the requirement to meet the threshold for at
least four of the preceding six calendar months, inactive and newly operating ATSs
would not be included in the definition of SCI ATS. See infra note 152.

146

See supra note 128 and accompanying text.

147

See supra note 106.

148

See infra note 150.

55

significantly affect the market. Due to these developments, the Commission believes that the 20
percent threshold as adopted in Regulation ATS is no longer an appropriate measure for
determining those entities that can have a significant impact on the market and thus should be
subject to the protections of Regulation SCI. Rather, the Commission believes that lower
volume thresholds are appropriate, and as noted in the SCI Proposal, the Commission believes
that the adopted thresholds would include ATSs having NMS stock dollar volume comparable to
or in excess of the NMS stock dollar volume of certain national securities exchanges subject to
Regulation SCI. 149
Based on data collected from ATSs pursuant to FINRA Rule 4552 for 18 weeks of
trading in 2014, 150 the Commission believes that approximately 12 ATSs trading NMS stocks
would exceed the adopted thresholds and fall within the definition of SCI entity, accounting for
approximately 66 percent of the dollar volume market share of all ATSs trading NMS stocks. 151

149

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18094.

150

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 71341 (January 17, 2014), 79 FR 4213
(January 24, 2014) (approving FINRA Rule 4552 requiring each ATS to report to FINRA
weekly volume information and number of securities transactions). Commission staff
analyzed FINRA ATS data for the period of May 19, 2014 through September 19,
2014. The recently available FINRA ATS data is consistent with the OATS data used in
the SCI Proposal. In addition, the analysis of FINRA ATS data examines a threshold of
trading volume over four out of six time periods, each period defined as a period of three
consecutive weeks as a rough approximation of the threshold test on four out of the
preceding six calendar months as prescribed in the definition of SCI ATS. The
Commission noted in the SCI Proposal that the staff analysis of OATS data may
overestimate the number of ATSs that may meet the proposed thresholds. While the
calculation based on FINRA ATS data may not overestimate the number of ATSs as
much as the data analysis in the proposal, it could still overestimate the number of ATSs
that would meet the thresholds. Nevertheless, the Commission believes the analysis of
FINRA ATS data offers useful insights. See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18094.

151

According to the FINRA ATS data, during this time period, a total of 44 ATSs traded
NMS stocks. The Commission notes that the number of ATSs exceeding the adopted
56

The Commission acknowledges that its analysis of the FINRA ATS data did not reveal an
obvious threshold level above which a particular subset of ATSs may be considered to have a
significant impact on individual NMS stocks or the overall market, as compared to another
subset of ATSs. However, for the following reasons, the Commission continues to believe that
the adopted thresholds for ATSs trading NMS stock are an appropriate measure to identify those
ATSs that should be subject to the requirements of Regulations SCI. First, by imposing both a
single NMS stock threshold and an all NMS stocks threshold in the first prong of the definition,
the thresholds will help to ensure that Regulation SCI will not apply to an ATS that has a large
volume in a small NMS stock and little volume in all other NMS stocks. At the same time, the
Commission believes that inclusion of the dual-prong dollar volume thresholds is appropriate.
Specifically, it will require not only that ATSs that have significant trading volume in all NMS
stocks are subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI, but also that ATSs that have large
trading volume in a single NMS stock and could significantly affect the market for that stock are
also covered by the safeguards of Regulation SCI provided they have levels of trading in all
NMS stocks that could allow such ATSs to also have some impact on the market as a whole.
The Commission also believes that, as discussed further below, the adopted thresholds will also
appropriately capture not only ATSs that have significant trading volume in active stocks, but
also those that have significant trading volume in less active stocks. The Commission believes
that a systems issue at an ATS that is a significant market for the trading of a less actively traded
stock could similarly impose significant risks to the market for such securities, because a systems
outage at such a venue could significantly impede the ability to trade such securities, thereby

thresholds, and the percentage of volume of trading in NMS stocks that they represent,
may change over time in response to market and competitive forces.
57

having a significant impact on the market for such less-actively traded securities. In addition, the
Commission continues to believe that thresholds that account for 66 percent of the dollar volume
market share of all ATSs trading NMS stocks is a reasonable level that would not exclude new
entrants to the ATS market. 152 Further, as noted above, the thresholds would include ATSs
having NMS stock dollar value comparable to the NMS stock dollar volume of the equity
exchanges subject to Regulation SCI. Finally, the Commission believes that the adopted
thresholds are appropriate to help ensure that entities that have determined to participate (in more

152

Consistent with the Commission’s statement in the SCI Proposal, the Commission has
considered barriers to entry and the promotion of competition in setting the threshold
such that new ATSs trading NMS stocks would be able to commence operations without,
at least initially, being required to comply with – and thereby not incurring the costs
associated with – Regulation SCI. See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at n. 102. In
particular, a new ATS could engage in limited trading in any one NMS stock or all NMS
stocks, until it reached an average daily dollar volume of five percent or more in any one
NMS stock and 0.25 percent or more in all NMS stocks, or one percent in all NMS
stocks, over four of the preceding six months. Because a new ATS could begin trading in
NMS stocks for at least three months (i.e., less than four of the preceding six months),
and conduct such trading at any dollar volume level without being subject to Regulation
SCI, and would have to exceed the specified volume levels for the requisite period to
become so subject, the Commission believes that these thresholds should not prevent a
new ATS entrant from having the opportunity to initiate and develop its business.
Further, the Commission notes that, as discussed below, it is adopting an additional sixmonth compliance period (in addition to the general nine-month compliance period from
the Effective Date of Regulation SCI afforded to all SCI entities) for ATSs newly
meeting the thresholds, so that once an ATS meets the threshold, it will have six months
from that time to become fully compliant with Regulation SCI. See infra Section IV.F
(discussing effective dates and compliance periods). The Commission believes that, for
ATSs that have newly entered the market, this additional compliance period will give
such ATSs additional opportunity to develop and grow their business without incurring
the costs of compliance with Regulation SCI during this time. This additional
compliance period should also provide such ATSs with time to plan on how they would
meet the requirements of Regulation SCI, and could also potentially allow SCI ATSs to
become more equipped to bear the cost of Regulation SCI once compliance is required,
and thus not significantly discourage new ATSs from entering the market and growing.
See infra Section VI.C.1.c (discussing further barriers to entry and the potential effects on
competition of the adopted thresholds).

58

than a limited manner) in the national market system as markets that bring buyers and sellers
together, are subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI.
As noted above, several commenters provided specific suggestions for alternative
standards for determining which ATSs should be included within the scope of Regulation SCI. 153
While the Commission recognizes that some of the suggested alternatives could have certain
benefits, it also believes that each recommended standard also has corresponding limitations, and
thus believes that the adopted thresholds are an appropriate measure for identifying those ATSs
that should be subject to Regulation SCI. First, as described above, the Commission believes
that adopting a two-prong standard is necessary to identify those ATSs that, in the event of a
systems issue, could have a significant impact on the overall market or that could have a
significant impact on a single NMS stock and some impact on the market as a whole at the same
time. The Commission notes that several of the thresholds suggested by commenters lacked
such a dual-prong standard (and, in particular, the prong relating to individual NMS stocks) and
thus do not provide the advantages associated with the adopted threshold in protecting the
trading venues for a single NMS stock. With regard to one commenter’s suggestion that the first
prong of the threshold should, among other things, consider five NMS stocks, rather than a single
stock, the Commission does not believe the commenter has provided any clear rationale for this
standard. 154 As discussed, the purpose of the first prong is to identify significant trading venues
(or markets) for a single security where a systems disruption could have a significant effect on
153

See supra notes 127-132 and accompanying text.

154

See supra note 131 and accompanying text. This commenter argued generally that the
thresholds should be revised so as to only include those entities that would have an
“immediate and substantial impairment of a functioning marketplace.” However, the
commenter did not explain why it advocated the use of five NMS stocks, rather than a
single NMS stock. See ITG Letter at 9.

59

the market for that security, and setting the threshold to consider five NMS securities could
potentially exclude trading venues that host large trading activity for a single NMS security.
Additionally, the Commission notes that the suggested alternative approach would be unlikely to
have any significant practical effect when used in conjunction with the second prong of the
threshold, which looks at trading across all NMS stocks, because the second prong would likely
capture an ATS with five percent or more volume in five NMS stocks. With regard to one
commenter’s suggestion to apply the threshold to only the 500 most active NMS stocks 155 and
another commenter’s suggestion to include only stocks with an aggregate average daily share
volume greater than 500,000, 156 the Commission disagrees that the threshold should be
structured to capture only ATSs that have significant trading volume in active stocks. Rather,
the first prong of the adopted threshold is designed to capture any ATS that has five percent or
more of the trading volume of any NMS stock, irrespective of how actively traded it is, so that
Regulation SCI can effectively address risks relating to the trading of all NMS stocks, and not
only the most active of NMS stocks. If the Commission were to apply the threshold only to the
500 most active NMS stocks or stocks only with average daily share volumes greater than
500,000, an ATS that, for example, served as the primary venue for the trading of less actively
traded NMS stocks, but had negligible market share for more actively traded NMS stocks, would
not be subject to Regulation SCI. However, an SCI event that resulted in an outage of such an
ATS could have a significant impact on the market for such less actively traded NMS stocks. As
such, failure to include such an ATS within the scope of Regulation SCI would be contrary to the
goals of the regulation. Finally, with regard to one commenter’s suggestion to retain Rule
155

See supra note 130 and accompanying text.

156

See supra note 131 and accompanying text.

60

301(b)(6) as part of Regulation ATS and amend the threshold to 2.5 percent, 157 as discussed
throughout this release, Regulation SCI is intended to expand upon the requirements of Rule
301(b)(6) and to supersede and replace such requirements for ATSs that trade NMS stocks. 158
For the reasons noted above, the Commission believes it is appropriate to include ATSs meeting
the adopted volume thresholds within the scope of Regulation SCI, and the Commission does not
believe it is appropriate to retain Rule 301(b)(6) as part of Regulation ATS, thereby subjecting
ATSs to a separate and differing set of regulatory requirements than other SCI entities with
regard to systems capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, security, and compliance. 159 For all
of the reasons discussed above, the Commission does not believe that any of the alternative
standards suggested by commenters would better capture those entities that have the potential to
pose significant risk to the market.
One commenter urged the Commission to utilize number of shares traded rather than
dollar value, stating that while most of the world uses value traded, available data for the U.S.
equity markets is share-based. 160 The Commission disagrees with this commenter and notes that
daily dollar volume is readily available from a number of sources, including the SIPs. 161

157

See supra note 132 and accompanying text.

158

But see infra notes 189-192 and accompanying text (discussing the Commission’s
determination to retain the applicability of Rule 301(b)(6) to fixed-income ATSs).

159

The Commission notes that, with regard to the specific threshold level suggested by this
commenter (2.5%), the Commission believes the adopted thresholds to be an appropriate
measure to identify those ATSs that should be subject to the requirements of Regulations
SCI for the reasons discussed above. See supra note 141.

160

See supra note 139 and accompanying text.

161

See also Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18094 (stating that the use of dollar
thresholds may better reflect the economic impact of trading activity).

61

The time measurement period for ATSs that trade NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks is
also being adopted as proposed. Thus, ATSs will be subject to Regulation SCI only if they meet
the numerical thresholds for at least four of the preceding six months.162 The Commission notes
that the adopted time measurement period is consistent with the current standard in Rule
301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS. 163 The Commission believes that this time measurement period is
an appropriate time period over which to evaluate the trading volume of an ATS and should help
to ensure that it does not capture ATSs with relatively low trading volume that may have had an
anomalous increase in trading on a given day or few days. Contrary to concerns raised by some
commenters, 164 under this time measurement methodology, an ATS would not qualify as an SCI
entity simply by trading a single large block of an illiquid security during one month (or even
two or three months). While one commenter suggested that the time measurement period be
shorter and recommended a period of two to four weeks, 165 the Commission believes that this
could cause ATSs to fall within the scope of the definition solely as a result of an atypical, shortterm increase in trading or a small number of large block trades that is not reflective of ATSs’
general level of trading. Specifically, with such a short period of measurement, a short-term
spike in trading volume uncharacteristic of an ATS’s overall trading volume history could (and if
large enough, likely would) skew the overall trading volume for that time period, causing an
162

See adopted Rule 1000 (definition of “SCI ATS”). The Commission notes that if an ATS
that was not previously subject to Regulation SCI meets the SCI ATS volume threshold
for four consecutive months, it would become subject to Regulation SCI at the end that
four-month period. However, as discussed further below, such an ATS would have an
additional six months from that time to comply with the requirements of Regulation SCI.
See infra text accompanying notes 169-170.

163

17 CFR 242.301(b)(6).

164

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 6.

165

See supra note 138 and accompanying text.

62

ATS to meet the volume thresholds and thus become subject to Regulation SCI even though the
overall risk posed by the ATS does not warrant it. Further, the Commission believes that such a
shorter time measurement period could provide more barriers to entry for ATSs, because new
ATSs would not have as long of a time period to develop their business prior to having to incur
the costs of compliance associated with being subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI. 166
This potential to incur such costs almost immediately after the initial start of operations could act
as a barrier to entry for some new ATSs.
Other commenters recommended a longer measurement period, such as 12 months. 167
The Commission does not believe, however, that a longer time period is necessary or more
appropriate to identify those entities that play a significant role in the market for a particular
asset class and/or that have the potential to significantly impact investors or the market,
warranting inclusion in the scope of Regulation SCI. The Commission believes that the adopted
time measurement period provides sufficient trading history data so as to indicate an ATS’s
significance to the market, and that the structure of the test (i.e., requiring an ATS to meet the
threshold for four out of six months) ensures sustainability of such trading levels. In addition,
modifying the time measurement period to 12 months (and thus eliminating the four out of six

166

See supra note 152 and accompanying text. See also infra Section VI.C.1.c (discussing
barriers to entry and the effects on competition of the adopted thresholds and time
measurement period for SCI ATSs).

167

See supra notes 136-137 and accompanying text. One of these commenters noted that the
“four out of the preceding six months” measurement is cumbersome to apply in practice.
See KCG Letter at 19. The Commission does not believe this measurement period to be
overly cumbersome to apply in practice, as it would require only that an ATS undertake
an assessment once at the end of each month as to whether the ATSs had exceeded the
volume thresholds set forth in the rule and then make a determination at the end of a six
month period whether the ATS met this threshold for four out of the six preceding
months.

63

month measurement period) would make such a measure more susceptible to capturing ATSs
that have a major but isolated spike in trading during a single month. Specifically, as noted
above, a single anomalous large increase in trading volume during one month (or such a spike in
two or three months) could never result in an ATS becoming subject to Regulation SCI solely as
a result of such a spike in trading, because the ATS would meet the threshold only for one
month, rather than the four months required by the rule. On the other hand, a threshold based on
an average over 12 months could be skewed by the occurrence of one large spike in trading that
results in the overall average for the 12-month period being increased to such a level that it meets
the volume threshold levels. Thus, contrary to one commenter’s suggestion that a 12-month
period would require “a sustained trading level at the threshold,” 168 the Commission believes that
the structure of the adopted measurement period test (i.e., four out of six months) may be a better
indicator of actual sustained trading levels at the threshold warranting the protections of the rule.
Further, the Commission believes that 12 months is a less appropriate time measurement period
than the period adopted because, for example, an ATS could have significant trading volume
early on during such a time period such that it may pose significant risk to the markets in the
event of a systems issue at such an ATS without being subject to Regulation SCI for a significant
period of time. The Commission believes that the adopted time period strikes an appropriate
balance between being a long enough period so as to not be triggered by atypical periods of
increased trading or a few occurrences of very large trades, while also not causing unnecessary
delay in requiring that ATSs playing an important role in the market are subject to Regulation
SCI.

168

See KCG Letter at 19. See also supra notes 136-137 and accompanying text.

64

Finally, as discussed further in Section IV.F, the Commission agrees with commenters
that it is appropriate to provide ATSs meeting the volume thresholds in the definition of SCI
ATS for the first time a period of time before they are required to comply with Regulation
SCI. 169 Thus, consistent with the recommendation of these commenters, the Commission is
revising the definition of SCI ATS to provide that an SCI ATS will not be required to comply
with the requirements of Regulation SCI until six months after satisfying any of the applicable
thresholds in the definition of SCI ATS for the first time. 170
ATSs Trading Non-NMS Stocks
Some commenters addressed whether Regulation SCI should apply to ATSs trading nonNMS stocks. 171 Specifically, one commenter stated that the rules should apply only to trading in
NMS securities because non-NMS stock trading—which is dispersed among broker-dealers—
does not have a single point of failure and is therefore less susceptible to rapid, widespread
issues that occur as a result of a high degree of linkage or inter-dependency. 172 Another
commenter stated that, with respect to non-NMS stocks (as well as municipal securities and
corporate debt securities), the proposed five percent threshold was too low and would
unnecessarily include ATSs for these product types that are “not systemic to maintaining fair,

169

See supra note 140 and accompanying text.

170

See Rule 1000 (definition of SCI ATS).

171

See, e.g., OTC Markets Letter at 7; SIFMA Letter at 7; TMC Letter at 1-3 (asserting that
retail fixed-income ATSs should not be subject to Regulation SCI); and KCG Letter at 3,
10-11.

172

See OTC Markets Letter at 7.

65

orderly, and efficient markets” and asked the Commission to further study the appropriate
threshold for these ATSs. 173
With regard to equity securities that are not NMS stocks and for which transactions are
reported to a self-regulatory organization, the adopted thresholds remain unchanged from the
SCI Proposal. Thus, for such securities, an ATS will be subject to the requirements of
Regulation SCI if, during four of the preceding six calendar months, it had five percent or more
of the average daily dollar volume as calculated by the self-regulatory organization to which
such transactions are reported. 174 The Commission continues to believe that this threshold will
appropriately identify ATSs that play a significant role in the market for those securities and,
thus, should be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI.
Using data from the second quarter of 2014, an ATS executing transactions in non-NMS
stocks at a level exceeding five percent of the average daily dollar volume traded in the United
States would be executing trades at a level exceeding $45.2 million daily. 175 Based on data
collected from Form ATS-R for the second quarter of 2014, the Commission estimates that two
ATSs would exceed this threshold and fall within the definition of SCI entity, accounting for
approximately 99 percent of the dollar volume market share of all ATSs trading non-NMS

173

See SIFMA Letter at 7.

174

However, as noted above, an ATS meeting the definition of SCI ATS for the first time
will be afforded a six-month compliance period. See supra notes 169-170 and
accompanying text.

175

In the Proposing Release, the Commission used data from the first six months of 2012 to
estimate that an ATS executing transactions in non-NMS stocks at a level exceeding five
percent of the average daily volume traded in the United States would be executed trades
at a level exceeding $31 million daily. See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at n.111
and accompanying text. The Commission has updated this estimate using over-thecounter reporting facility data available from FINRA.

66

stocks. 176 These thresholds reflect an assessment by the Commission, based on qualitative and
quantitative analysis, of the likely consequences of the specific quantitative thresholds included
in the definition. From this analysis and in conjunction with considering the views of
commenters, the Commission has derived what it believes to be an appropriate threshold to
identify those ATSs that should be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI.
As discussed above, one commenter objected to the inclusion of ATSs trading non-NMS
stocks within the scope of Regulation SCI. 177 This commenter argued that non-NMS trading is
not susceptible to the issues that Regulation SCI is designed to address because such trading is
dispersed among broker-dealers and does not create the types of single points of failure that pose
widespread systemic risk. 178 First, as noted above, while the Commission is particularly
concerned with systems issues that pose the greatest risk to our markets and have the potential to
cause the most widespread effects and damage (such as those that are single points of failure),
Regulation SCI is intended to address a broader set of risks of systems issues. Accordingly, the
adopted threshold for non-NMS stock ATSs is designed to identify those ATSs that play a
significant role in the market for such securities. Further, the Commission disagrees with the
commenter’s assertion that trading in non-NMS stocks cannot result in widespread
disruptions. 179

176

The Commission notes that the number of ATSs exceeding the adopted threshold, and the
percentage of volume of trading in non-NMS stocks that they represent, may change over
time in response to market and competitive forces.

177

See supra note 172 and accompanying text.

178

See id.

179

See supra note 33 and accompanying text.

67

While one commenter stated that the five percent threshold was too low, this commenter
did not provide an alternative threshold but rather asked the Commission to further study this
issue. 180 As noted above, based on qualitative and quantitative analysis, the Commission
believes the five percent threshold to be an appropriate measure to determine which ATSs are of
sufficient significance in the current market for non-NMS stocks to warrant their inclusion
within the scope of Regulation SCI. The Commission notes that it intends to monitor the level of
this threshold, and other thresholds being adopted today, to ensure that they continue to be
appropriate.
The Commission notes that adoption of a higher threshold for non-NMS stocks than for
NMS stocks reflects the Commission’s acknowledgement of certain differences between the two
markets. In particular, as noted in the SCI Proposal, while the Commission believes that similar
concerns about the trading of NMS stocks on ATSs apply to the trading of non-NMS stocks, the
Commission also believes that certain characteristics of the market for non-NMS stocks, such as
the lower degree of automation, electronic trading, and interconnectedness, generally result in an
overall lower risk to the market in the event of a systems issue. 181 In particular, the Commission
believes that a systems issue at an SCI entity that trades non-NMS stocks would not be as likely
to have as significant or widespread an impact as readily as a systems issue at an SCI entity that
trades NMS stocks. Therefore, the Commission believes that there is less risk of market impact
in the markets for those securities at this time. As such, the Commission has determined not to
adopt the same, more stringent, thresholds that would trigger the requirements of Regulation SCI
that the Commission is adopting for ATSs trading NMS stocks. The Commission also believes
180

See supra note 173.

181

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18096.

68

that imposition of a threshold that is set too low in markets that lack automation could have the
unintended effects of discouraging automation in these markets and discouraging new entrants
into these markets. Specifically, it could increase the cost of automation in relation to other
methods of executing trades, and thus market participants might make a determination that the
costs associated with becoming subject to Regulation SCI preclude a shift to automated trading
or the development of a new automated trading system, particularly given the expected lower
trading volume when beginning operations. Further, the Commission notes that it has
traditionally provided special safeguards with regard to NMS stocks in its rulemaking efforts
relating to market structure. 182 For these reasons, the Commission believes that it is appropriate
at this time to apply a different threshold to ATSs trading NMS stocks than those ATSs trading
non-NMS stocks.
ATSs Trading Fixed-Income Securities
Several commenters specifically addressed the inclusion of municipal security and
corporate debt security ATSs within the scope of Regulation SCI, stating that these ATSs should
not be subject to Regulation SCI or that the proposed thresholds should be modified. 183 These
commenters identified differences in the nature of fixed-income trading as compared to the
markets for NMS securities and concluded that the thresholds were inappropriate and would be
detrimental to the market for these types of securities. 184 In particular, commenters stated that
inclusion of fixed-income ATSs and/or the adoption of the proposed thresholds would impose

182

See, e.g., Regulation NMS, 17 CFR 242.600-612; Securities Exchange Act Release No.
51808 (June 9, 2005), 70 FR 27496 (June 29, 2005) (Regulation NMS Adopting
Release).

183

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 7; TMC Letter at 1-3; and KCG Letter at 2-3, 10-11.

184

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 7; TMC Letter at 1-3; and KCG Letter at 2-3, 10-11.

69

unduly high costs on these entities given their size, scope of operations, lack of automation, low
speed, and resulting low potential to pose risk to systems. 185 Further, one commenter noted that
the cost of compliance for these types of entities would discourage the shift from manual fixedincome trading in the OTC markets to more transparent and efficient automated trading
venues. 186
In addition, one commenter stated that if retail fixed-income ATSs are included in the
final rule, a better measurement would be to look at par amount traded rather than volume. 187
Finally, one commenter requested that the Commission clarify that ATSs relating to listedoptions are not subject to the obligations of proposed Regulation SCI. 188
While the adopted definition of SCI ATS remains unchanged from the proposal for NMS
stocks and non-NMS stocks, the Commission, after considering the views of commenters, has
determined to exclude ATSs that trade only municipal securities or corporate debt securities
from the definition of SCI ATS at this time. 189 Accordingly, such fixed-income ATSs will not
be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI. Rather, fixed-income ATSs will continue to
be subject to the existing requirements in Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS regarding systems
capacity, integrity and security if they meet the twenty percent threshold for municipal securities
or corporate debt securities provided by that rule. 190 The Commission believes that this change
185

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 7; TMC Letter at 1-3; and KCG Letter at 2-3, 10-11.

186

See KCG Letter at 3, 10-11 (noting that the vast majority of fixed-income trades are done
in the OTC markets and only a few ATSs for the fixed-income market have emerged in
recent years).

187

See TMC Letter at 1-3.

188

See LiquidPoint Letter at 2-3.

189

See supra notes 183-186.

190

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6).

70

is warranted given the unique nature of the current fixed-income markets, as noted by several
commenters. In particular, fixed-income markets currently rely much less on automation and
electronic trading than markets that trade NMS stocks or non-NMS stocks. 191 In addition, the
municipal and corporate fixed-income markets tend to be less liquid than the equity markets,
with slower execution times and less complex routing strategies. 192 As such, the Commission
believes that a systems issue at a fixed-income ATS would not have as significant or widespread
an impact as in other markets. Thus, while ensuring the capacity, integrity and security of the
systems of fixed-income ATSs is important, the benefits of lowering the threshold applicable to
fixed-income ATSs from the current twenty percent threshold in Regulation ATS and subjecting
such ATSs to the safeguards of Regulation SCI would not be as great as for ATSs that trade
NMS stock or non-NMS stock. As commenters pointed out, the cost of the requirements of
Regulation SCI could be significant for fixed-income ATSs relative to their size, scope of
operations, and more limited potential for systems risk. The Commission is cognizant that
lowering the current threshold applicable to fixed-income ATSs in Regulation ATS and
subjecting such ATSs to the requirements of Regulation SCI could have the unintended effect of
discouraging automation in these markets and discouraging the entry of new fixed-income ATSs

191

See, e.g., supra notes 183-186 and accompanying text (discussing the unique nature of
fixed-income trading). See also Tracy Alloway and Michael Mackenzie, “Goldman
Retreats from Bond Platform,” Fin. Times, February 17, 2014 (noting that, despite efforts
to make the market for bond trades more electronic, large bond trading continues to occur
overwhelmingly by ‘voice-brokered’ transactions); and Lisa Abramowicz, “Humans Beat
Machines as Electronic Trading Slows: Credit Markets,” Bloomberg, February 19, 2014
(stating that a shift in corporate bond transactions to electronic systems is failing to keep
up with total volume).

192

See, e.g., TMC Bonds Letter at 1 (stating that fixed-income markets have significantly
lower volumes and slower execution times than equity markets and have no meaningful
connectivity between fixed-income ATS participants).

71

into the market, which could impede the evolving transparency and efficiency of these markets
and negatively impact liquidity in these markets.
For these reasons, the Commission believes that it is appropriate to continue to apply the
requirements in Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS to fixed-income ATSs that meet the volume
thresholds of that rule and to exclude ATSs that trade only municipal securities or corporate debt
securities from the scope of Regulation SCI at this time.
c.

Plan Processor

Under Proposed Rule 1000(a), the term “plan processor” had the meaning set forth in
Rule 600(b)(55) of Regulation NMS, which defines “plan processor” as “any self-regulatory
organization or securities information processor acting as an exclusive processor in connection
with the development, implementation and/or operation of any facility contemplated by an
effective national market system plan.” 193 The Commission is adopting the definition of “plan
processor” as proposed. 194
The Commission received no comments on the proposed definition of “plan
processor.” 195 As noted in the SCI Proposal, the ARP Inspection Program included the systems
of the plan processors of four national market system plans—the CTA Plan, CQS Plan, Nasdaq

193

See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(55).

194

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release supra note 13, at Section III.B.1.

195

However, some commenters did support the overall scope of the term “SCI entity” or
agreed specifically that plan processors should be included within the definition of that
term. See, e.g., Lauer Letter at 3 (urging the Commission to expand the scope of entities
covered) and KCG Letter at 5-6 (recommending that Regulation SCI be targeted to
services offered by only one or a few entities, such as plan processors). In addition, one
commenter, although commenting specifically on the definition of “SCI system,” stated
that Regulation SCI should be tailored to focus only on systems impacting the core
functions of the overall market, which should include the exclusive SIPs that transmit
market data. See OTC Markets Letter at 12-13.

72

UTP Plan, and OPRA Plan. 196 Although an entity selected as the processor of an SCI Plan acts
on behalf of a committee of SROs, such entity is not required to be an SRO, nor is it required to
be owned or operated by an SRO. 197 The Commission believes, however, that the systems of

196

See ARP I Release, supra note 1, at n. 8 and n. 17. Each of the CTA Plan, CQS Plan,
Nasdaq UTP Plan, and OPRA Plan, is a “national market system plan” (“NMS Plan”) as
defined under Rule 600(a)(43) of Regulation NMS under the Exchange Act, 17 CFR
242.600(a)(43). Rule 600(a)(55) of Regulation NMS under the Exchange Act, 17 CFR
242.600(a)(55), defines a “plan processor” as “any self-regulatory organization or
securities information processor acting as an exclusive processor in connection with the
development, implementation and/or operation of any facility contemplated by an
effective national market system plan.” Section 3(a)(22)(B) of the Exchange Act, 15
U.S.C. 78c(22)(B), defines “exclusive processor” to mean “any securities information
processor or self-regulatory organization which, directly or indirectly, engages on an
exclusive basis on behalf of any national securities exchange or registered securities
association, or any national securities exchange or registered securities association which
engages on an exclusive basis on its own behalf, in collecting, processing, or preparing
for distribution or publication any information with respect to (i) transactions or
quotations on or effected or made by means of any facility of such exchange or (ii)
quotations distributed or published by means of any electronic system operated or
controlled by such association.”
As a processor involved in collecting, processing, and preparing for distribution
transaction and quotation information, the processor of each of the CTA Plan, CQS Plan,
Nasdaq UTP Plan, and OPRA Plan meets the definition of “exclusive processor;” and
because each acts as an exclusive processor in connection with an NMS Plan, each also
meets the definition of “plan processor” under Rule 600(a)(55) of Regulation NMS, as
well as Rule 1000(a) of Regulation SCI. For ease of reference, an NMS Plan having a
current or future “plan processor” is referred to herein as an “SCI Plan.” The
Commission notes that not every processor of an NMS Plan would be a “plan processor”
under Rule 1000, and therefore not every processor of an NMS Plan would be an SCI
entity subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI. For example, the processor of the
Symbol Reservation System associated with the National Market System Plan for the
Selection and Reservation of Securities Symbols (File No. 4-533) would not be a “plan
processor” subject to Regulation SCI because it does not meet the “exclusive processor”
statutory definition, as it is not involved in collecting, processing, and preparing for
distribution transaction and quotation information.

197

Pursuant to Section 11A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78k-1), and Rule 609 of
Regulation NMS thereunder (17 CFR 242.609), such entities, as “exclusive processors,”
are required to register with the Commission as securities information processors on
Form SIP. See 17 CFR 249.1001 (Form SIP, application for registration as a securities
information processor or to amend such an application or registration).

73

such entities, because they deal with key market data, are central features of the national market
system 198 and should be subject to the same systems standards as SCI SROs. The inclusion of
plan processors in the definition of SCI entity is designed to ensure that the processor for an SCI
Plan, regardless of its identity, is independently subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI.
The Commission believes that it is important for such plan processors to be subject to the
requirements of Regulation SCI because of the important role they serve in the national market
system: operating and maintaining computer and communications facilities for the receipt,
processing, validating, and dissemination of quotation and/or last sale price information
generated by the members of the plan.
Recent SIP incidents further highlighted the importance of plan processors to the U.S.
securities markets and the necessity of including such processors within the scope of Regulation
SCI. 199 As evidenced by the incidents, the availability of consolidated market data is central to
the functioning of the securities markets. The unavailability of a system, such as a plan
processor, that is a single point of failure with no backups or alternatives can result in a
significant impact on the entire national market system. Accordingly, the Commission believes
that that it is essential to ensure that the automated systems of the entities responsible for the

198

See Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, supra note 4, at 3594-95.

199

As noted above, a disruption of the Nasdaq SIP on August 22, 2013 resulted in a three
hour halt in trading in all Nasdaq-listed securities because of the SIP’s inability to process
quotes. See supra note 32 and accompanying text. Also as noted above, on October 30,
2014, according to the NYSE, a network hardware failure impacted the Consolidated
Tape System, Consolidated Quote System, and Options Price Reporting Authority data
feeds at the primary data center, and SIAC switched over to the secondary data center for
these data feeds. See id.
74

consolidation and processing of important market data, namely, plan processors, have adequate
levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security. 200
Further, pursuant to its terms, each SCI Plan is required to periodically review its
selection of its processor, and may in the future select a different processor for the SCI Plan than
its current processor. 201 Thus, the definition of “plan processor” covers any entity selected as the
processor for a current or future SCI Plan. 202
d.

Exempt Clearing Agency Subject to ARP

Proposed Rule 1000(a) defined the term “exempt clearing agency subject to ARP” to
mean “an entity that has received from the Commission an exemption from registration as a
clearing agency under Section 17A of the Act, and whose exemption contains conditions that
relate to the Commission’s Automation Review Policies, or any Commission regulation that
supersedes or replaces such policies.” This definition is being adopted as proposed.
As noted in the SCI Proposal, this definition of “exempt clearing agency subject to ARP”
currently covers one entity, Omgeo Matching Services – US, LLC (“Omgeo”). 203 In its

200

Systems directly supporting functionality relating to the provision of consolidated market
data are included within the definition of “critical SCI systems,” for which heightened
obligations under Regulation SCI will apply. See adopted Rule 1000. See also supra
Section IV.A.2.c (discussing the definition of “critical SCI systems”).

201

See CTA Plan Section V(d) and CQS Plan Section V(d), available at:
http://www.nyxdata.com/cta; OPRA Plan Section V, available at:
http://www.opradata.com/pdf/opra_plan.pdf; and Nasdaq UTP Plan Section V, available
at: http://www.utpplan.com.

202

Currently, SIAC is the processor for the CTA Plan, CQS Plan, and OPRA Plan, and
Nasdaq is the processor for the Nasdaq UTP Plan. SIAC is wholly owned by NYSE
Euronext. Both SIAC and Nasdaq are registered with the Commission as securities
information processors, as required by Section 11A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C.
78k-1(b)(1), and in accordance with Rule 609 of Regulation NMS, 17 CFR 242.609.

203

On April 17, 2001, the Commission issued an order granting Omgeo an exemption from
registration as a clearing agency subject to certain conditions and limitations in order that
75

comment letter, Omgeo stated that it believed its inclusion as an SCI entity was reasonable
because clearing agencies that provide matching services, such as Omgeo, perform a critical role
in the infrastructure of the U.S. financial markets in handling large amounts of highly
confidential proprietary trade data. 204 Omgeo requested, however, that the Commission clarify
that other similarly situated clearing agencies would also be subject to the requirements of
Regulation SCI, and further requested that the Commission expand the definition of SCI entity,
as applied to clearing agencies, to include, without limitation, any entity providing either
matching services or confirmation/affirmation services for depository eligible securities that
settle in the United States, as contemplated by FINRA Rule 11860. 205
The Commission notes that the adopted definition of “exempt clearing agency subject to
ARP” does provide that any entity that receives from the Commission an exemption from
registration as a clearing agency under Section 17A of the Act, and whose exemption contains
conditions that relate to the Automation Review Policies or any Commission regulation that
supersedes or replaces the Commission’s Automation Review Policies (such as Regulation SCI)
would be included within the scope of Regulation SCI. Therefore, clearing agencies that are
similarly situated as Omgeo (i.e., those that are subject to an exemption that contains the relevant

Omgeo might offer electronic trade confirmation and central matching services. See
Global Joint Venture Matching Services – US, LLC; Order Granting Exemption from
Registration as a Clearing Agency, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 44188 (April
17, 2001), 66 FR 20494 (April 23, 2001) (File No. 600-32) (“Omgeo Exemption Order”).
Because the Commission granted it an exemption from clearing agency registration,
Omgeo is not a self-regulatory organization.
204

See Omgeo Letter at 2-3.

205

See id.

76

conditions) will be subject to Regulation SCI. 206 The Commission does not believe, therefore,
that an expansion of the definition as suggested by Omgeo is necessary to further clarify that
similarly situated entities will be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI.
Among the operational conditions required by the Commission in the Omgeo Exemption
Order were several that directly related to the ARP policy statements. 207 For the same reasons
that it required Omgeo to abide by the conditions relating to the ARP policy statements set forth
in the Omgeo Exemption Order, the Commission believes it is appropriate that Omgeo (or any
similarly situated exempt clearing agency) should be subject to the requirements of Regulation
SCI, and thus is including any “exempt clearing agency subject to ARP” within the definition of
SCI entity.
2.

SCI Systems, Critical SCI Systems, and Indirect SCI Systems
a.

Overview

Regulation SCI, as adopted, distinguishes three categories of systems of an SCI entity:
“SCI systems;” “critical SCI systems,” and “indirect SCI systems.” The SCI Proposal broadly
defined SCI systems to mean “all computer, network, electronic, technical, automated, or similar
systems of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI entity, whether in production, development, or
206

Any entity seeking an exemption from registration as a clearing agency is responsible for
requesting and obtaining such an exemption from the Commission.

207

These conditions require Omgeo to, among other things: provide the Commission with
an audit report addressing all areas discussed in the Commission ARP policy statements;
provide annual reports prepared by competent, independent audit personnel in accordance
with the annual risk assessment of the areas set forth in the ARP policy statements; report
all significant systems outages to the Commission; provide advance notice of any
material changes made to its electronic trade confirmation and central matching services;
and respond and require its service providers to respond to requests from the Commission
for additional information relating to its electronic trade confirmation and central
matching services, and provide access to the Commission to conduct inspections of its
facilities, records and personnel related to such services. See supra note 203.

77

testing, that directly support trading, clearance and settlement, order routing, market data,
regulation, or surveillance.” The SCI Proposal also defined the term SCI security systems (to
which only the provisions of Regulation SCI relating to security and intrusions would apply) as:
“any systems that share network resources with SCI systems that, if breached, would be
reasonably likely to pose a security threat to SCI systems.” 208
Many commenters stated that the proposed definitions of SCI systems and SCI security
systems were too broad and urged the Commission to target systems that pose the greatest risk to
the market if they malfunction. 209 After careful consideration of the comments, and as discussed
more fully below, the Commission agrees that certain types of systems included in the proposed
definition of SCI systems may be appropriately excluded from the adopted definition. However,
because U.S. securities market infrastructure is highly interconnected and seemingly minor
systems problem at a single entity can spread rapidly across the national market system, the
Commission does not believe it is appropriate to apply Regulation SCI only to the most critical
SCI systems, as some commenters suggested. Instead, the adopted regulation applies to a
broader set of systems than urged by some commenters, but a more targeted set of systems than
proposed. In addition, the adopted approach recognizes that some systems pose greater risk than
others to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets if they malfunction. To this end, adopted
Regulation SCI identifies three broad categories of systems of SCI entities that are subject to the
regulation: “SCI systems,” “critical SCI systems,” and “indirect SCI systems,” with each
category subject to differing requirements under Regulation SCI.
208

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.B.2.

209

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 10; Joint SROs Letter at 5; Omgeo Letter at 4; KCG Letter at 3;
DTCC Letter at 4; FIF Letter at 3; Liquidnet Letter at 3; and OTC Markets Letter at 1213.
78

As discussed more fully below, the adopted definition of “SCI systems” includes those
systems that directly support six areas that have traditionally been considered to be central to the
functioning of the U.S. securities markets, namely trading, clearance and settlement, order
routing, market data, market regulation, and market surveillance. SCI systems are subject to all
provisions of Regulation SCI, except for certain requirements applicable only to critical SCI
systems.
In addition, the Commission is adopting a definition of “critical SCI systems,” a subset of
SCI systems that are subject to certain heightened resilience and information dissemination
provisions of Regulation SCI. Guided significantly by commenters’ views on those systems that
are most critical, the Commission is defining the term “critical SCI systems” as SCI systems that:
(1) directly support functionality relating to: (i) clearance and settlement systems of clearing
agencies; (ii) openings, reopenings, and closings on primary trading markets; (iii) trading halts;
(iv) initial public offerings; (v) the provision of consolidated market data (i.e., SIPs); or (vi)
exclusively-listed securities; or (2) provide functionality to the securities markets for which the
availability of alternatives is significantly limited or nonexistent and without which there would
be a material impact on fair and orderly markets. 210 As more fully discussed below, systems in
this category are those that, if they were to experience systems issues, the Commission believes
would be most likely to have a widespread and significant impact on the securities markets.
In addition, the Commission is adopting a definition of “indirect SCI systems,” in place
of the proposed definition of “SCI security systems.” “Indirect SCI systems” are subject only to
the provisions of Regulation SCI relating to security and intrusions. The term “indirect SCI
systems” is defined to mean “any systems of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI entity that, if
210

See Rule 1000.

79

breached, would be reasonably likely to pose a security threat to SCI systems” and, if an SCI
entity puts in place appropriate security measures, is intended to refer to few, if any, systems of
the SCI entity.
b.

SCI Systems

SCI systems generally
Proposed Rule 1000(a) defined the term “SCI systems” to mean “all computer, network,
electronic, technical, automated, or similar systems of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI
entity, whether in production, development, or testing, that directly support trading, clearance
and settlement, order routing, market data, regulation, or surveillance.” 211 After careful
consideration of the comments, the Commission is refining the scope of the systems covered by
the definition of “SCI systems.” As adopted, the term “SCI systems” in Rule 1000 means “all
computer, network, electronic, technical, automated, or similar systems of, or operated by or on
behalf of, an SCI entity that, with respect to securities, directly support trading, clearance and
settlement, order routing, market data, market regulation, or market surveillance.”
One commenter generally supported the proposed definition of SCI systems, and stated
that the definition should be expanded to include any technology system that has direct market
access. 212 In response to this comment, the Commission believes that many systems with direct
market access are captured by the adopted definition. However, as discussed above, the

211

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.B.2.

212

See Lauer Letter at 5.

80

Commission has determined not to propose to expand the scope of Regulation SCI to include
other broker-dealer entities and their systems at this time. 213
Contrary to the commenter who urged expansion of the proposed definition, many
commenters believed the term to be too broad and recommended that it be revised in various
ways. 214 These commenters argued that the definition was over-inclusive, with some believing
that it could potentially apply to all systems of an SCI entity.
Specifically, several commenters recommended that the definition of SCI systems be
revised to include a more limited set of systems than proposed. 215 Commenters advocating this
general approach provided various suggestions for the specific standard that they believed should
apply. For example, among commenters’ recommendations were suggestions that the definition
of SCI systems should include only those systems: whose failure or degradation would
reasonably be expected to have an adverse material impact on the sound operation of financial
markets; 216 that are highly critical to functioning as an SCI entity; 217 that have the potential to

213

See supra Section IV.A.1 (discussing scope of SCI entities covered by Regulation SCI)
and infra Section IV.E (discussing comments on the inclusion of broker-dealers generally
within the scope of Regulation SCI).

214

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 10-11; Omgeo Letter at 3-6; MSRB Letter at 7-9; FIF Letter at
3; ICI Letter at 4; BIDS Letter at 15-16; ITG Letter at 5; Liquidnet Letter at 3; CME
Letter at 5; DTCC Letter at 3-5; OCC Letter at 3-4; Joint SROs Letter at 5; FINRA Letter
at 5-10; SIFMA Letter at 8; Oppenheimer Letter at 3; OTC Markets Letter at 12; and
Direct Edge Letter at 2.

215

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 10; Joint SROs Letter at 5; Omgeo Letter at 4; KCG Letter at 3;
DTCC Letter at 4; FIF Letter at 3; Liquidnet Letter at 3; and OTC Markets Letter at 1213. See infra text accompanying notes 216-225.

216

See Omgeo Letter at 4.

217

See KCG Letter at 3. See also ICI Letter at 3 and Oppenheimer Letter at 3 (stating
generally that the proposed definitions should be revised to more specifically focus on
system events that are truly disruptive to the markets and the systems themselves that are
81

impact the protection of securities investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets; 218
that directly support trading, clearance and settlement, order routing, market data, regulation, or
surveillance in real-time; 219 that support the SCI entity’s “core functions...which the SCI entity
performs pursuant to applicable Commission regulations;” 220 that are reasonably likely to pose a
plausible risk to the markets (namely, systems that route or execute orders, clear and settle
trades, or transmit required market data); 221 or that impact the core functions of the overall
market, which, according to the commenter, would include exclusive SIPs that transmit market
data and systems responsible for primary NMS auction markets that set daily opening and
closing prices. 222 In addition, one commenter suggested that the term should be defined as a
production system that connects to and is part of the electronic network that comprises the
market. 223 This commenter also noted that the definition should distinguish between systems
that connect to the markets and those that are used to run a business. 224 Another commenter
suggested that, if Regulation SCI were to apply only to exchanges and ATSs, the term should be

likely to pose a risk to the fair and orderly operation of the markets or participants in the
markets).
218

See CME Letter at 5.

219

See Joint SROs Letter at 5. This group of commenters further stated that non-real-time
systems should not be included, as they do not warrant the level of oversight and added
costs that the regulation imposes.

220

See DTCC Letter at 4.

221

See NYSE Letter at 3, 10. In addition, this commenter added that the key to whether a
proposed “supporting” function should be included is whether or not it is critical to the
proper operation of a core functionality.

222

See OTC Markets Letter at 13.

223

See BIDS Letter at 15-16. Thus, this commenter argued that, for a venue that does not
route orders, the reporting of trade executions to the tape should not be enough to qualify
such a system as an “SCI system.”

224

See id.

82

limited to exchange and ATS systems operated by the entity and should not include, for example,
brokerage systems. 225
The Commission is further focusing the scope of the definition of SCI systems in
response to these comments. 226 The Commission is replacing the proposed language referring to
“systems…whether in production, development, or testing that directly support trading,
clearance and settlement, order routing, market data, regulation, or surveillance” with the
following language: “systems, with respect to securities, that directly support trading, clearance
and settlement, order routing, market data, market regulation, or market surveillance.” As such,
the adopted definition has been limited to apply to production systems that relate to securities
market functions, and in particular to those six functions—trading, clearance and settlement,
order routing, market data, market regulation, or market surveillance—that traditionally have
been considered to be central to the functioning of the U.S. securities markets, as urged by
several commenters. 227 The Commission believes that systems providing these six functions
may pose a significant risk to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets if their capacity,

225

See Liquidnet Letter at 3.

226

See supra notes 215-218, 220-222, and 224-225, and accompanying text. The definition
is not limited strictly to real-time systems, however, or those that “connect to” and are
“part of the electronic network that comprises the market,” because those limitations
could exclude relevant systems, such as certain market regulation or market surveillance
systems operated by or on behalf of an SCI entity, which the Commission views as
integral to one or more of the six functions identified in the definition. In response to the
commenter requesting that “brokerage” systems be excluded from the definition of SCI
systems, the Commission notes that the adopted definition of SCI systems applies to
systems that directly support the enumerated six functions, operated by or on behalf of an
SCI entity. The definition therefore would exclude systems, including brokerage
systems, that are not operated by or on behalf of an SCI entity. See, respectively, supra
notes 219 and 223 and accompanying text.

227

See supra notes 219-221 and accompanying text.

83

integrity, reliability, availability or security is compromised, and therefore that they should be
covered by the definition of “SCI systems.”
Although some commenters pointed to the phrase “directly support” in the proposed rule
as vague and overbroad, 228 the Commission has retained this phrase in the adopted definition.
The term “directly support,” is retained to acknowledge that systems of SCI entities are complex
and highly interconnected and that the definition of SCI systems should not exclude functionality
or supporting systems on which the six identified categories of systems rely to remain
operational. 229 In response to comment that the definition of SCI systems should distinguish
between systems that connect to the markets and those that are used to run a business, 230 the
Commission notes that the adopted definition would not include systems “used to run a business”
if they are not within the six identified categories of market-related production systems and not
necessary to their continued functioning. Further, the adopted definition clarifies that SCI
systems encompass only those systems that, with respect to securities, directly support trading,
clearance and settlement, order routing, market data, market regulation, or market surveillance.
The Commission believes that this change appropriately responds to one commenter’s concerns
that the proposed definition would capture systems operated by an SCI entity that have
“practically no relevance or relation to SEC markets” and suggested that the definition should be
revised to include only those systems that would directly impact a market that was subject to the
228

See OCC Letter at 3; and NYSE Letter at 10.

229

The Commission notes that it believes that specifying that the definition applies to those
systems that “directly support” these core functions is necessary so as to not result in a
definition that is overly broad and would capture systems that only peripherally or
indirectly support these functions. See generally supra notes 214-225 and accompanying
text (discussing comments that urged revisions to the definition of SCI systems). See
also infra Section IV.A.2.d (discussing the definition of “indirect SCI systems”).

230

See supra note 224 and accompanying text.

84

Commission’s jurisdiction. 231 As a result of this modification, if an SCI SRO does not use its
systems to conduct business with respect to securities, its systems would not fall within the
definition of “SCI systems.” Further, if an SCI entity operates systems for the trading of both
futures and securities, only its trading systems for securities would be subject to the requirements
of Regulation SCI. 232
In addition, one commenter urged that the Commission should initially limit the scope of
SCI systems to those systems covered by the ARP Policy Statements (trading, clearance and
settlement, and order routing) and phase in other types of systems later. 233 The Commission
believes that the adopted definition of SCI systems obviates the need for such an approach, as
many systems for which the commenter urged a delay in compliance will not be covered by the
regulation, as adopted.
SCI Systems: Inclusions and Exclusions
Various commenters objected to specific categories proposed to be included in the
definition of SCI systems. First, many commenters opposed the proposed inclusion of
development and testing systems in the definition, noting that issues in development and testing
systems would have little or no impact on the operations of SCI entities and that such systems
are designed to identify and address problems before they are introduced into production

231

See CME Letter at 5.

232

However, the Commission notes that, if an SCI entity has systems that do not relate to
securities, and that have not been properly walled off from its SCI systems for securities,
they may be captured by the definition of “indirect SCI systems” (as discussed below)
and subject to certain requirements of the rule including those relating to security and
intrusions standards. See infra Section IV.A.2.d (discussing definition of “indirect SCI
systems”).

233

See MSRB Letter at 9.

85

systems. 234 Some commenters argued that inclusion of development and testing systems in the
definition of SCI systems would subject such systems to more requirements under Regulation
SCI than was necessary and noted that certain other provisions of Regulation SCI would
necessarily include reporting information to the Commission on such systems, even without their
inclusion in the definition of SCI systems. 235 For example, one commenter stated that
application of most provisions of Regulation SCI to testing and development systems would
provide little benefit, and noted that updates regarding systems in development and material new
features of existing systems could instead be done through the semi-annual reports to the
Commission under proposed Rule 1000(b)(8). 236 Similarly, one commenter noted that
information regarding the status of systems that are in development and testing would be
captured in the notices regarding material systems changes under proposed Rule 1000(b)(6) and
in the updates under proposed Rule 1000(b)(8). 237 Alternatively, this commenter suggested that
the Commission could require that any testing errors be corrected (and such corrections be
retested) prior to implementation of those changes in production. 238
The Commission believes that certain modifications to the elements of the proposed
definition of SCI systems are appropriate. First, in response to comments, the reference to

234

See NYSE Letter at 11; FINRA Letter at 10-11; Omgeo Letter at 5; DTCC Letter at 4;
SIFMA Letter at 8; BIDS Letter at 16; MSRB Letter at 7-8; OCC Letter at 5; CME Letter
at 6; Joint SROs Letter at 5; and Direct Edge Letter at 2. One commenter qualified this
position by stating that, to the extent that a systems issue in a development and testing
environment were to give rise to an issue affecting an SCI system, the proposal should
apply to that development and testing environment. See OCC Letter at 5.

235

See MSRB Letter at 7; and DTCC Letter at 4.

236

See MSRB Letter at 7.

237

See DTCC Letter at 4.

238

See id.

86

development and testing systems in the proposed definition of SCI systems has been deleted. 239
As commenters pointed out, development and testing systems are generally designed to identify
and address problems before new systems or systems changes are introduced into production
systems and, by their nature, can often experience issues, both intentional and unplanned, during
the testing process. The Commission believes that systems issues that occur with respect to such
systems are less likely to have a significant impact on the operations of an SCI entity or on the
securities markets as a whole than issues occurring with respect to production systems. Further,
subjecting these systems to the Commission notification requirements in adopted Rule 1002(b)
could have the unintended effect of deterring SCI entities from fully utilizing the testing and
development processes to test new systems and systems changes and develop solutions to issues
prior to implementation of such systems or changes in production. At the same time, the
Commission notes that, in order to have policies and procedures reasonably designed to achieve
capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security for SCI systems in accordance with
adopted Rule 1001(a), an SCI entity will be required to have policies and procedures that include
a program to review and keep current systems development and testing methodology for SCI
systems. 240 Accordingly, review of programs relating to systems development and testing for
SCI systems is within the scope of Regulation SCI, and an SCI entity should reasonably expect
Commission staff to review such processes and systems during the course of its exams and

239

Because the Commission is removing development and testing systems from the
definition of SCI systems, the reference to production systems in the definition of SCI
systems is also being deleted as it is unnecessary to distinguish between development,
testing and production systems within the definition. See adopted Rule 1000 (definition
of “SCI systems”).

240

See adopted Rule 1001(a) and discussion in infra Section IV.B.1 (discussing the policies
and procedures requirement under adopted Rule 1001(a)).

87

inspections. In addition, the Commission notes that the definition of SCI review in adopted Rule
1000 and corresponding requirements for an annual SCI review in adopted Rule 1003(b) require
an assessment of internal control design and effectiveness, which includes development
processes. 241 Further, if development and testing systems are not appropriately walled off from
production systems, such systems could be captured under the definition of indirect SCI systems
as discussed below and be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI. If an SCI entity’s
development and testing systems are not walled off from production systems, the SCI entity
should consider whether its policies and procedures should specify safeguards to ensure that its
personnel can clearly distinguish the development and testing systems from the production
systems, in order to avoid inadvertent errors that may result in an SCI event.
Some commenters also opposed the proposed inclusion of regulatory and surveillance
systems within the definition of SCI systems or suggested that the Commission refine or clarify
the scope of such systems. 242 Some of these commenters argued that inclusion of such systems
was not necessary because these systems do not operate on a real-time basis or have a real-time
impact on trading. 243 Further, one commenter suggested that periodic reporting of material
outages or delays in the operation of regulatory and surveillance systems, pursuant to appropriate
policies and procedures, would support the goals of Regulation SCI without imposing undue
burdens on SCI entities or raising the risk that market participants would purposefully direct

241

See adopted Rule 1000 and 1003(b) and discussion in infra Section IV.B.5 (discussing
the SCI review requirement). The Commission also notes that development processes
include testing processes.

242

See NYSE Letter at 11; BATS Letter at 5; MSRB Letter at 8-9; and FINRA Letter at 7-8.

243

See NYSE Letter at 11; and Joint SROs Letter at 5.

88

order flow to SCI entities experiencing regulatory or surveillance systems issues. 244 Another
commenter advocated for replacing the terms “regulation” and “surveillance” with “market
regulation” and “market surveillance,” respectively, and asked the Commission to clarify the
difference between “regulatory” and “surveillance” systems. 245
In consideration of these comments, the Commission has determined to limit SCI systems
to those systems relating to market regulation and market surveillance rather than including all
regulation and surveillance systems. As proposed, the definition contained no such limitations
and could potentially be interpreted to cover systems used for member regulation and member
surveillance. The Commission does not believe that inclusion of member regulation or member
surveillance systems such as those, for example, relating to member registration, capital
requirements, or dispute resolution, would advance the goals of Regulation SCI. Issues relating
to such systems are unlikely to have the same level of impact on the maintenance of fair and
orderly markets or an SCI entity’s operational capability as those systems identified in the
definition of SCI systems. The Commission believes that this change will more appropriately
capture only those regulatory and surveillance systems that are related to core market functions,
such as trading, clearance and settlement, order routing, and market data. 246 Another element of

244

See NYSE Letter at 11 (citing concerns regarding the potential that dissemination of
information regarding issues with regulatory or surveillance systems to members or
participants could provide a “roadmap for violative market behavior”).

245

See FINRA Letter at 7-8.

246

The Commission notes that Rule 613 of Regulation NMS requires the creation of an
NMS plan to govern the creation, implementation, and maintenance of a consolidated
audit trail and central repository. See 17 CFR 242.613. See also Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 67457 (July 18, 2012), 77 FR 45722 (August 1, 2012) (“Consolidated
Audit Trail Adopting Release”). Although the consolidated audit trail central repository
has not yet been created, the Commission believes that the consolidated audit trail
repository will be a market regulation system that falls within the definition of SCI
89

the proposed definition of “SCI systems” that some commenters addressed was the inclusion of
market data systems. Specifically, one commenter believed that the inclusion of all market data
systems was too broad, and argued that only “systems that directly support ‘the transmission of
market data as required by the Exchange Act’” should be included, thus limiting the types of
market data systems to those relating to consolidated data and excluding those that transmit
proprietary market data. 247 Although the term “market data” is not defined in Regulation SCI,
that term generally refers to price information for securities, both pre-trade and post-trade, such
as quotations and transaction reports. 248 In response to the commenter urging that only market
data systems relating to consolidated data be included, the term “market data” does not refer
exclusively to consolidated market data, but includes proprietary market data generated by SCI
entities as well. The Commission notes that both consolidated and proprietary market data
systems are widely used and relied upon by a broad array of market participants, including
institutional investors, to make trading decisions, and that if a consolidated or a proprietary
market data feed became unavailable or otherwise unreliable, it could have a significant impact

systems, and further that it will be an SCI system of each SCI SRO that is a member of an
approved NMS plan under Rule 613, because it will be a facility of each SCI SRO that is
a member of such plan. See Consolidated Audit Trail Adopting Release, 77 FR at 45774
(stating, “[T]he central repository will be jointly owned by, and be a facility of, each SRO
that is a sponsor of the NMS plan.”). See also SCI Proposing Release, supra note 13, at
18099 (contemplating inclusion of the consolidated audit trail central repository as an
SCI system).
247

See NYSE Letter at 10-11.

248

See Exchange Act Section 11A (15 U.S.C. 78K-1(a)(1)(C)(iii)), granting the Commission
authority to assure the availability to brokers, dealers, and investors of “information with
respect to quotations for and transactions in securities”). See also Regulation of Market
Information Fees and Revenues, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 42208, 64 FR
70613 (December 17, 1999) (describing “market information” as information concerning
quotations for and transactions in equity securities and options that are actively traded in
the U.S. markets).

90

on the trading of the securities to which it pertains, and could interfere with the maintenance of
fair and orderly markets. Therefore, systems of an SCI entity directly supporting proprietary
market data or consolidated market data are both within the scope of the definition of SCI
systems and subject to Regulation SCI. However, the Commission has repeatedly emphasized
the importance of consolidated market data to the national market system and the protection of
investors 249 and the severe impact of its unavailability was evidenced by the SIP outage in
August 2013. 250 Thus, as discussed below, systems directly supporting functionality related to
the provision of consolidated market data are distinguished by their inclusion in the definition of
“critical SCI systems.” 251
Further, one commenter questioned whether the phrase “market data systems” was
intended to be limited to data-driven systems devoted to price transparency or whether the
Commission also intended to include document-based systems devoted to public disclosure. 252
In response to this comment, the Commission notes that systems providing or directly supporting
price transparency are within the scope of SCI systems. 253 However, systems solely providing or
directly supporting other types of data, such as systems used by market participants to submit
disclosure documents, or systems used by SCI entities to make disclosure documents publicly
249

See, e.g., Concept Release on Equity Market Structure, supra note 198; and Regulation
NMS Adopting Release, supra note 182, at 37503-04.

250

See supra note 32 and accompanying text.

251

See infra Section IV.A.2.c (discussing definition of “critical SCI systems”).

252

See MSRB Letter at 8-9 (citing its EMMA Primary Market Disclosure Service and
EMMA Continuing Disclosure Service system as an example of a document-based
system devoted to public disclosure).

253

With regard to this particular comment, the Commission notes that the specific systems
referenced – the RTRS, EMMA Primary Market Disclosure Service, EMMA Continuing
Disclosure Service and SHORT System – all include pricing information for securities,
and thus would fall within the definition of “SCI systems.”
91

available, are not within the scope of SCI systems, so long as they do not also directly support
price transparency.
Several commenters also argued that the term SCI systems should not include systems
operated on behalf of an SCI entity by a third party. 254 Some of these commenters pointed to
potential difficulties with meeting the requirements of Regulation SCI with regard to third party
systems. 255 One commenter specifically suggested that the proposal should be limited to those
systems under the control of the SCI entity. 256 Another commenter noted that the SCI entity
should instead be responsible for managing these relationships through due diligence, contract
terms, and monitoring of third party performance. 257 One commenter also requested that the
Commission clarify how SCI entities should comply with the oversight of vendor systems as part
of Regulation SCI. 258
Although several commenters argued that the term SCI systems should not include thirdparty systems, the Commission continues to believe that, if a system is operated on behalf of an
SCI entity and directly supports one of the six key functions listed within the definition of SCI
system, it should be included as an SCI system subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI.
The Commission believes that any system that directly supports one of the six functions
254

See Omgeo Letter at 5-6; DTCC Letter at 4; SIFMA Letter at 8-9; BIDS Letter at 16; and
BATS Letter at 4. See also ITG Letter at 5 (expressing concern about the inclusion of
systems of third parties operated on behalf of an SCI entity and systems that are unrelated
to the trading operations of an ATS.).

255

See, e.g., Omgeo Letter at 5-6; and BATS Letter at 4 (arguing that it would be difficult
for SCI entities to ensure compliance by third party vendors absent their willingness to
disclose to SCI entities highly detailed information about their intellectual property and
proprietary systems).

256

See SIFMA Letter at 9.

257

See BIDS Letter at 16.

258

See FIF Letter at 3.

92

enumerated in the definition of SCI system is important to the functioning of the U.S. securities
markets, regardless of whether it is operated by the SCI entity directly or by a third party. The
Commission believes that permitting such systems to be excluded from the requirements of
Regulation SCI would significantly reduce the effectiveness of the regulation in promoting the
national market system by ensuring the capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security of
those systems important to the functioning of the U.S. securities markets. Further, if the
definition did not include systems operated on behalf of an SCI entity, the Commission is
concerned that some SCI entities might be inclined to outsource certain of their systems solely to
avoid the requirements of Regulation SCI, which would further undermine the goals of
Regulation SCI. The Commission agrees with the comment that an SCI entity should be
responsible for managing its relationship with third parties operating systems on behalf of the
SCI entity through due diligence, contract terms, and monitoring of third party performance.
However, the Commission believes that these methods may not be sufficient in all cases to
ensure that the requirements of Regulation SCI are met for SCI systems operated by third parties.
The fact that they might be sufficient some of the time is therefore not a basis for excluding these
systems from the definition of SCI systems. Instead, if an SCI entity determines to utilize a third
party for an applicable system, it is responsible for having in place processes and requirements to
ensure that it is able to satisfy the requirements of Regulation SCI for systems operated on behalf
of the SCI entity by a third party. The Commission believes that it would be appropriate for an
SCI entity to evaluate the challenges associated with oversight of third-party vendors that
provide or support its applicable systems subject to Regulation SCI. If an SCI entity is uncertain
of its ability to manage a third-party relationship (whether through due diligence, contract terms,

93

monitoring, or other methods) to satisfy the requirements of Regulation SCI, 259 then it would
need to reassess its decision to outsource the applicable system to such third party. 260 For
example, if a third-party vendor is unwilling to disclose to an SCI entity information regarding
the vendor’s intellectual property or proprietary system that the SCI entity believes it needs to
satisfy the requirements of Regulation SCI, as some commenters suggested might be the case, an
SCI entity will need to reassess its relationship with that vendor, because the vendor’s
unwillingness to provide necessary information or other assurances would not exclude the
outsourced system from the definition of SCI systems. Accordingly, the definition of SCI
system, as adopted in Rule 1000, retains the reference to systems operated “on behalf of” SCI
entities.
Finally, some commenters asked for clarification on miscellaneous aspects of the
definition. For example, one commenter requested that the Commission clarify that the
definition of SCI system for purposes of Regulation SCI is separate and distinct from the
definition of a facility set forth in Section 3(a)(2) of the Exchange Act. 261 The Commission
notes that the term “SCI system” under Regulation SCI is distinct from the term “facility” in
Section 3(a)(2) of the Exchange Act. 262 Because a facility of an exchange would only fall

259

See BIDS Letter at 16 (suggesting these methods of managing third-party relationships to
comply with the proposed rule).

260

See FIF Letter at 3 and FINRA Letter at 22-23 (requesting Commission guidance on how
an SCI entity should manage third-party relationships in the context of adopted
Regulation SCI). See also infra notes 851-852 and accompanying text (discussing
comments on the risk of noncompliance by an SCI entity in connection with reporting
SCI events and material systems changes due to challenges posed by third-party
systems).

261

See NYSE Letter at 10.

262

See 15 U.S.C. 78c3(a)(2).

94

within the definition of “SCI systems” if it is a system that directly supports any one of the six
functions provided in the definition of “SCI systems,” not all systems that are facilities of an
exchange will be SCI systems. For example, as noted in the SCI Proposal, the definition of SCI
systems would apply to systems of exchange-affiliated routing brokers that are facilities of
national securities exchanges. 263 But a system used for member regulation that may meet the
definition of a facility under the Exchange Act, would not be within the scope of the definition of
“SCI systems.”
Another commenter requested confirmation that internal systems are excluded from the
definition of SCI system. 264 The Commission notes that the definition of “SCI system” does not
differentiate between “internal systems” and those systems accessed by market participants or
other outside parties. 265 The Commission notes that, while some internal systems of an SCI
entity may not meet the definition of SCI system, it does not believe that that all internal systems
(as described by this commenter) would be outside of the scope of the definition of SCI
system. 266

263

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18099.

264

See FINRA Letter at 10.

265

See adopted Rule 1000 (definition of SCI systems).

266

In addition, the Commission notes that, while certain internal systems may not be “SCI
systems,” they may instead meet the definition of “indirect SCI systems” under adopted
Rule 1000, if they are not properly walled off from SCI systems. However, as discussed
below, the Commission is clarifying the meaning of this defined term to note that systems
that are effectively physically or logically separated from SCI systems would be outside
of the definition of indirect SCI systems and thus outside of the scope of Regulation SCI.
See infra Section IV.A.2.d (discussing the definition of “indirect SCI systems”).

95

Other commenters advocated that SCI entities should be permitted to conduct their own
risk-based assessment to determine which of their systems should be considered SCI systems. 267
One commenter noted that SCI entities should be required to develop and maintain an
established methodology for identifying which systems qualify as SCI systems, 268 while other
commenters advocated for coordination with the Commission in establishing criteria to be used
in conducting such risk-based assessments or review by the Commission of an SCI entity’s own
risk-based assessment. 269 The Commission has carefully considered these comments and
generally agrees that certain systems pose greater risk to the markets in the event of a systems
issue and are of paramount importance to the functioning of the U.S. securities markets. Rather
than include only those in the definition of SCI systems, the Commission believes that it is more
prudent to instead identify these systems as “critical SCI systems” subject to certain heightened
obligations. Further, adopted Rule 1001(a) requiring SCI entities to have policies and
procedures reasonably designed to ensure that their systems have adequate levels of capacity,
integrity, resiliency, availability, and security is consistent with a risk-based approach. 270
Specifically, as discussed in further detail below, an SCI entity may tailor its policies and
procedures based on the relative criticality of a given SCI system to the SCI entity and to the
securities markets generally. 271
c.

Critical SCI Systems

267

See DTCC Letter at 3-5; Omgeo Letter at 5-6; and OCC Letter at 3-4.

268

See Omgeo Letter at 5.

269

See OCC Letter at 3-4; and DTCC Letter at 3-4.

270

See adopted Rule 1001(a). See also infra Section IV.B.1 (discussing policies and
procedures for operational capability).

271

See infra Section IV.B.1.a-b (discussing the use of risk-based considerations to tailor
policies and procedures for operational capability).

96

As discussed above, in response to comments, the Commission is incorporating a riskbased approach in certain aspects of Regulation SCI. 272 To that end, the Commission is adopting
a definition of “critical SCI systems” to designate SCI systems that the Commission believes
should be subject to the highest level of requirements. As a subset of “SCI systems,” “critical
SCI systems” are subject to the same provisions as “SCI systems,” except that critical SCI
systems are subject to certain heightened resilience and information dissemination provisions of
Regulation SCI. In these respects, critical SCI systems are subject to an increased level of
obligation as compared to other SCI systems. 273
Rule 1000 defines “critical SCI systems” as “any SCI systems of, or operated by or on
behalf of, an SCI entity that: (1) directly support functionality relating to: (i) clearance and
settlement systems of clearing agencies; 274 (ii) openings, reopenings, and closings on the primary
listing market; (iii) trading halts; (iv) initial public offerings; (v) the provision of consolidated
market data; or (vi) exclusively-listed securities; or (2) provide functionality to the securities
markets for which the availability of alternatives is significantly limited or nonexistent and
without which there would be a material impact on fair and orderly markets.”
As noted above, many commenters advocated for a risk-based approach to Regulation SCI and
272

See supra notes 53-56 and accompanying text (discussing comments on a risk-based
approach).

273

See infra Sections IV.B.1.b and IV.B.3.d (discussing the two-hour resumption goal for
“critical SCI systems” and information dissemination requirement for “major SCI
events,” respectively).

274

“Clearance and settlement systems of clearing agencies” includes systems of registered
clearing agencies and exempt clearing agencies subject to ARP. See Rule 1000
(definition of “exempt clearing agency subject to ARP,” which by its terms would also
include an entity that has received from the Commission an exemption from registration
as a clearing agency under Section 17A of the Act, and whose exemption contains
conditions that relate to ARP, or any Commission regulation that supersedes or replaces
such policies, including Regulation SCI).

97

either suggested that only the entities or systems that pose the greatest risk to the markets should
be within the scope of the regulation or, alternatively, that the requirements of Regulation SCI be
tailored to the specific risk-profile of a particular entity or particular system. 275 While the
Commission disagrees with commenters who suggested that Regulation SCI should apply only to
“critical systems,” as it believes that these are not the only systems that could pose a significant
risk to the securities markets, the Commission believes that it is appropriate to hold systems that
pose the greatest risk to the markets if they malfunction to higher standards and more stringent
requirements under Regulation SCI. Recent events have also demonstrated the importance of
certain critical systems functionality, including those that represent “single points of failure” to
the securities markets, and the need for more robust market infrastructure, particularly with
regard to critical market systems. 276
The Commission believes that the adoption of the definition of “critical SCI systems” and
heightened requirements for such systems recognizes that some systems are critical to the
continuous and orderly functioning of the securities markets more broadly and, as such, ensuring
their capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security is of the utmost importance.
Therefore, as discussed further below, the Commission believes that it is appropriate for such
critical SCI systems to be held to heightened requirements (as compared to those for SCI
systems) related to capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security generally; rapid
275

See supra notes 53-56 and 216-222 and accompanying text (discussing comments on a
risk-based approach and limiting SCI systems to only core or critical systems).

276

See supra Section II.B (describing recent events involving systems-related issues). In
particular, the Nasdaq SIP incident, which caused a disruption in the dissemination of
consolidated market data in the equity markets and led to a trading halt in all Nasdaqlisted stocks for several hours, confirmed that disruptions in systems that represent single
points of failure can have a major and detrimental impact across an entire national market
system.

98

recovery following wide-scale disruptions; and disclosure of SCI events. The Commission
believes that the definition of critical SCI systems is appropriately designed to identify those SCI
systems whose functions are critical to the operation of the markets, including those systems that
represent potential single points of failure in the securities markets. Systems in this category are
those that, if they were to experience systems issues, the Commission believes would be most
likely to have a widespread and significant impact on the securities markets.
The first prong of the definition identifies six specific categories of systems that the
Commission believes are the most critical to the securities markets, and the most likely to have
widespread and significant market impact should a systems issue occur. These are: clearance
and settlement systems of clearing agencies; openings, reopenings, and closings on the primary
listing market; trading halts; initial public offerings; the provision of consolidated market data
(i.e., SIPs); and exclusively-listed securities.
In the context of suggesting the adoption of a risk-based approach for Regulation SCI,
some commenters identified those functions that they believed were most critical to the
functioning of the markets. Among those identified were clearance and settlement, opening and
closing auctions, IPO auctions, the provision of consolidated market data by the SIPs; and
trading of exclusively-listed securities. 277 The Commission agrees with commenters who
277

See, e.g., Direct Edge Letter at 2 (citing, among others, SIPs and clearance and settlement
systems as essential to continuous market-wide operation); KCG Letter at 2-3
(identifying opening and closing auctions, IPO auctions, trading of exclusively-listed
options, market data consolidators, and settlement and central clearing as “single points
of failure” that should be subject to heightened regulatory requirements); and SIFMA
Letter at 4 (stating that highly critical functions should include primary listing exchanges,
trading exclusively listed securities, SIPs, clearance and settlement, distribution of unique
post-trade transparency information, and real-time market surveillance). Although these
commenters were urging that Regulation SCI apply only to these critical systems, as
explained above, the Commission believes that such an approach would be too limited.

99

characterized these categories of systems as critical. In addition, as discussed below, the
Commission believes that systems that directly support functionality relating to trading halts
should be included in the definition of critical SCI systems.
With respect to “clearance and settlement systems of clearing agencies,” the clearance
and settlement of securities is fundamental to securities market activity. 278 Clearing agencies
perform a variety of services that help ensure that trades settle on time and at the agreed upon
terms. For example, clearing agencies compare transaction information (or report to members
the results of exchange comparison operations), calculate settlement obligations (including net
settlement), collect margin (such as initial and variation margin), and serve as a depository to
hold securities as certificates or in dematerialized form to facilitate automated settlement.
Because of their role, clearing agencies are critical central points in the financial system. A
significant portion of securities activity flows through one or more clearing agencies. Clearing
agencies have direct links to participants and indirect links to the customers of participants.
Clearing agencies are also linked to each other through common participants and, in some cases,
by operational processes. Safe and reliable clearing agencies are essential not only to the
stability of the securities markets they serve but often also to payment systems, which may be
used by a clearing agency or may themselves use a clearing agency to transfer collateral. 279 The
safety of securities settlement arrangements and post-trade custody arrangements is also critical
to the goal of protecting the assets of investors from claims by creditors of intermediaries and
other entities that perform various functions in the operation of the clearing agency. 280 Investors

278

See Clearing Agency Standards Release, supra note 76, at 66220, 66264.

279

See Clearing Agency Standards Release, supra note 76, at 66264.

280

See id.

100

are more likely to participate in markets when they have confidence in the safety and reliability
of clearing agencies as well as settlement systems. 281 Accordingly, the Commission believes
“clearance and settlement systems of clearing agencies” are appropriate for inclusion in the
definition of critical SCI systems. 282
Similarly, reliable openings, reopenings, and closings on primary listing markets are key
to the establishment and maintenance of fair and orderly markets. NYSE and Nasdaq, for
example, each have an opening cross for their listed securities that solicits trading interest and
generates a single auction price that attracts widespread participation and is relied upon as a
benchmark by other markets and market participants. 283 Similar processes are used, and heavy
levels of participation typically are generated, at the primary listing markets in the reopening
cross that follows a trading halt. 284 Closing auctions at the primary listing markets also attract
widespread participation, and the closing prices they establish are commonly used as
benchmarks, such as to value derivative contracts and generate mutual fund net asset values. As
such, during these critical trading periods, market participants rely on the processes of the
primary listing markets to effect transactions, and establish benchmark prices that are used in a

281

See id.

282

The Commission notes that systems of SCI entities other than clearing agencies that are
used in connection with the clearance and settlement of trades are not captured by the
definition of “critical SCI systems,” but rather would fall within the definition of “SCI
systems,” as discussed above. See supra Section IV.2. The Commission believes that
such systems of other SCI entities, such as SROs and ATSs, do not provide the same
critical functions or pose the same level of risk to the market as the clearance and
settlement systems of clearing agencies as discussed above.

283

See Nasdaq Rule 4752 (Opening Process) and NYSE Rules 115A (Orders at the
Opening) and 123D (Openings and Halts in Trading).

284

See, e.g., Nasdaq Rule 4753 (Nasdaq Halt and Imbalance Crosses) and NYSE Rules
115A (Orders at the Opening) and 123D (Openings and Halts in Trading).

101

wide variety of contexts so that the unavailability or disruption of systems directly supporting the
opening, reopening and closing processes on the primary listing markets could have widespread
detrimental effects. 285
In addition, the Commission believes that systems directly supporting functionality
relating to trading halts 286 are essential to the orderly functioning of the securities markets, and
therefore should be included in the definition of critical SCI systems. In the event a trading halt
is necessary, it is essential that the systems responsible for communicating the trading halt—
typically maintained by the primary listing market—are robust and reliable so that the trading
halt is effective across the U.S. securities markets. For example, when there is material “news
pending” with respect to an issuer, it is the responsibility of the primary listing market to call a
regulatory halt by generating a halt message which, when received by other trading centers,
requires them to cease trading the security. 287 Similar responsibilities are placed on the primary

285

For example, press reports indicated that the decision to close the New York Stock
Exchange in the wake of Superstorm Sandy, and the resulting lack of availability of the
NYSE opening and closing prices, was a significant contributing cause of the
unscheduled closure of the U.S. national securities exchanges. See, e.g., Jenny Strasburg,
Jonathan Cheng, and Jacob Bunge, “Behind Decision to Close Markets,” Wall St. J.,
October 29, 2012. See also Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18091 (discussing the
effects of Superstorm Sandy on the securities markets). While other exchanges outside of
the path of Superstorm Sandy did not experience the same risks to their electronic trading
systems as the NYSE and could have otherwise opened for business, the risk that opening
and closing prices might not be set by NYSE for its listed securities contributed to the
consensus recommendation of market participants that the markets remain closed. See
Jenny Strasburg, Jonathan Cheng, and Jacob Bunge, “Behind Decision to Close
Markets,” Wall St. J., October 29, 2012.

286

For purposes of clarity, the Commission notes that the term “trading halts” as used in this
context is intended to capture market-wide halts, such as regulatory halts, rather than a
halt to trading for securities on a particular market (for example, caused by a systems
issue specific to that market).

287

See, e.g., CTA Plan Section IX(a), available at: http://www.nyxdata.com/cta; National
Market System Plan To Address Extraordinary Market Volatility, Section VII (“Limit
102

listing market with respect to calling trading halts under the National Market System Plan to
Address Extraordinary Market Volatility, as well as on plan processors to disseminate this
information to the public. 288 Thus, systems which communicate information regarding trading
halts provide an essential service in the U.S. markets and, should a systems issue occur affecting
the ability of an SCI entity to provide such notifications, the fair and orderly functioning of the
securities markets may be significantly impacted.
Companies offer shares of capital stock to the general public for the first time through the
IPO process, in which the primary listing market initiates public trading in a company’s shares.
The IPO is conducted exclusively on that exchange, and secondary market trading cannot
commence on any other exchange until the opening trade is printed on the primary listing
market. 289 As such, the Commission believes that an exchange’s systems that directly support
the IPO process and the initiation of secondary market trading are a critical element of the capital
formation process and the effective functioning of the securities markets. The Commission
believes that these systems, which are the sole responsibility of the primary listing market, can
adversely affect not only the IPO of a particular issuer, but may also result in significant

Up/Limit Down Plan”); NYSE Arca Rule 7.12, BATS Rule 11.18, and EDGA Rule
11.14. See also Securities Exchange Act Release No. 67091 (May 31, 2012), 77 FR
33498 (June 6, 2012) (File No. 4-631) (Order Approving, on a Pilot Basis, the National
Market System Plan To Address Extraordinary Market Volatility) (“Limit Up/Limit
Down Plan Approval Order”).
288

See Limit Up/Limit Down Plan, supra note 287 and Limit Up/Limit Down Plan Approval
Order, supra note 287.

289

See Rule 12f-2 under the Exchange Act, 17 CFR 240.12f-2 (providing that a national
securities exchange may extend unlisted trading privileges to a security when at least one
transaction in the security has been effected on the national securities exchange upon
which the security is listed and the transaction has been reported pursuant to an effective
transaction reporting plan).

103

monetary losses and harm to investors if they fail. 290 As noted in the SCI Proposal, systems
issues affecting the two recent high-profile IPOs highlighted how disruptions in IPO systems can
have a significant impact on the market. 291
Systems directly supporting the provision of consolidated market data are also critical to
the functioning of U.S. securities markets and represent potential single points of failure in the
delivery of important market information. When Congress mandated a national market system in
1975, it emphasized that the systems for collecting and distributing consolidated market data
would be central features of the national market system. 292 Further, one of the findings of the
recent report by the staffs of the Commission and the CFTC on the market events of May 6, 2010
was that “fair and orderly markets require that the standards for robust, accessible, and timely
market data be set quite high.” 293 Accurate, timely, and efficient collection, processing, and
dissemination of consolidated market data provides the public with ready access to a

290

See, e.g., supra note 36 (discussing the losses associated with Nasdaq’s Facebook IPO).

291

Specifically, in March 2012, BATS announced that a “software bug” caused BATS to
shut down the IPO of its own stock, and in May 2012, issues with Nasdaq’s trading
systems delayed the start of trading in the IPO of Facebook, Inc. and some market
participants experienced delays in notifications of whether orders had been filled. See
Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18089; and Securities Exchange Act Release No.
69655, In the Matter of The NASDAQ Stock Market, LLC and NASDAQ Execution
Services, LLC (settled action: May 29, 2013), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2013/34-69655.pdf. Nasdaq and Nasdaq Execution
Services, LLC consented to an Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist
Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 19(h)(1) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, Making Findings, and Imposing Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order.

292

See H.R. Rep. No. 94-229, 94th Cong., 1st Sess. 93 (1975). See also Concept Release on
Equity Market Structure, supra note 4, at 3600, and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at
18108 (each discussing the importance of consolidated market data).

293

See Findings Regarding The Market Events Of May 6, 2010, Report Of The Staffs Of
The CFTC And SEC To The Joint Advisory Committee On Emerging Regulatory Issues,
September 30, 2010, at 8 (“May 6 Staff Report”).

104

comprehensive and reliable source of information for the prices and volume of any NMS stock at
any time during the trading day. 294 This information helps to ensure that the public is aware of
the best displayed prices for a stock, no matter where they may arise in the national market
system. 295 It also enables investors to monitor the prices at which their orders are executed and
serves as a data point that helps them to assess whether their orders received best execution. 296
Finally, systems directly supporting functionality relating to exclusively-listed securities
represent single points of failure in the securities markets, because exclusively-listed securities,
by definition, are listed and traded solely on one exchange. 297 As such, a trading disruption on
the exclusive listing market necessarily will disrupt trading by all market participants in those
securities. 298
The second prong of the definition is a broader catch-all provision intended to capture
any SCI systems, beyond those specifically identified within the first prong of the definition, that
provide functionality to the securities markets for which the availability of alternatives is
significantly limited or nonexistent and without which there would be a material impact on fair

294

See id.

295

See id.

296

See id. Also, as discussed above, the recent Nasdaq SIP disruption demonstrated that the
availability, accuracy, and reliability of consolidated market data is currently central to
the functioning of the securities markets, and systems issues affecting such systems can
result in major disruptions to the national market system, undermining the maintenance
of fair and orderly markets.

297

As noted above, commenters identified the systems supporting the trading of exclusivelylisted securities as representing critical points of failure or critical functionality in the
securities markets. See, e.g., KCG Letter at 2-3; and SIFMA Letter at 4.

298

For example, as noted above, in April 2013, CBOE delayed the opening of trading on its
exchange for over three hours due to an internal “software bug,” preventing investors
from trading in those products that are singly-listed on CBOE, including options on the
S&P 500 Index and the VIX. See supra note 28 and accompanying text.

105

and orderly markets. The Commission is not aware of any SCI systems that would fall under this
prong of the critical SCI systems definition at this time, and notes that this prong of the definition
is intended to account for further technology advancements and the continual evolution of the
securities markets, in recognition that such developments could result in additional or new types
of systems that would, similar to the enumerated categories of systems in the first prong of the
definition, become so critical to the continuous and orderly functioning of the securities markets
such that they should be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI imposed on those systems
specifically enumerated in the first prong of the definition.
The Commission also notes that the definition applies to those systems “of, or operated
by or on behalf of, an SCI entity.” This language mirrors the language in the definitions of SCI
system and indirect SCI system, and as discussed above, is intended to cover systems that are
third-party systems operated on behalf of SCI entities. 299
d.

Indirect SCI Systems (Proposed as “SCI Security Systems”)

Proposed Rule 1000 defined the term “SCI security systems” to mean “any systems that
share network resources with SCI systems that, if breached, would be reasonably likely to pose a
security threat to SCI systems.” 300 As adopted, Regulation SCI includes the new term “indirect
SCI systems,” in place of the proposed term “SCI security systems.” The term “indirect SCI
systems” is defined to mean “any systems of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI entity that, if
breached, would be reasonably likely to pose a security threat to SCI systems.”
As an initial matter, the Commission has determined to replace the proposed term “SCI
security systems” with the adopted term “indirect SCI systems” because it believes that the latter
299

See supra notes 254-260 and accompanying text.

300

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.B.2.

106

term, in using the word “indirect,” better reflects that it is intended to cover non-SCI systems
only if they are not appropriately secured and segregated from SCI systems, and therefore could
indirectly pose risk to SCI systems. 301 The adopted definition of indirect SCI systems includes
systems “of, or operated by or on behalf of” of an SCI entity that, “if breached, would be
reasonably likely to pose a security threat to SCI systems.” As discussed below, in response to
comment that the proposed term would cover too many systems unrelated to SCI systems, the
adopted term excludes the phrase “share network resources.”
One commenter expressly supported the definition of SCI security systems and urged that
it be expanded to include any technology system that has direct market access. 302 In response to
this comment, the Commission notes that the adopted definition includes any technology system
of, or operated by or on behalf of an SCI entity, that has direct market access if that system meets
the definition’s test: whether a breach of that system would be reasonably likely to pose a
security threat to SCI systems.
This commenter also suggested that the Commission additionally require SCI entities to
have independent security audits performed and allow the auditor to have the ability to define
which systems should be included and which can be safely excluded. 303 The Commission is not
requiring “independent security audits” to determine which systems would fall within the
definition of indirect SCI system as suggested by this commenter, 304 because the Commission
301

The Commission also believes that eliminating the word “security” from the defined term
will help clarify that the term is not limited to systems relating only to security of the SCI
entity and its systems (e.g., firewalls, VPNs).

302

See Lauer Letter at 5.

303

See id.

304

See adopted Rule 1000 (definition of “SCI review”) and infra Section IV.B.5 (discussing
the SCI review requirement).
107

believes its adopted rule requiring an annual SCI review addresses the commenter’s request. The
Commission notes that the adopted annual SCI review requirement requires that such review be
performed by objective, qualified personnel, and that it include an assessment of logical and
physical security controls for SCI systems and indirect SCI systems. The Commission believes
that an SCI entity is generally in the best position to assess in the first instance which of its
systems may fall within the definition of indirect SCI systems, and that having an independent
third party audit to make that determination should be optional rather than required at this time.
Contrary to the commenter urging expansion of the proposed definition of SCI security
systems, many commenters argued that the proposed definition was overbroad, 305 with several of
these same commenters suggesting that the term be deleted from the rule entirely. 306 The
Commission believes that Regulation SCI warrants inclusion of a definition of indirect SCI
systems because an issue or systems intrusion with respect to a non-SCI system still could cause
or increase the likelihood of an SCI event with respect to an SCI entity’s SCI systems. 307 In
particular, because systems that are not adequately walled off from SCI systems may present
potential entry points to an SCI entity’s network and thus represent potential vulnerabilities to
SCI systems, the Commission believes that it is important that the provisions of Regulation SCI

305

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 11; Omgeo Letter at 6; MFA Letter at 6 (noting specifically that
the definition could be read to extend to broker-dealers or other third parties); SIFMA
Letter at 8; ITG Letter at 5, 12; BIDS Letter at 16-17; MSRB Letter at 7; OCC Letter at
4; FINRA Letter at 12-13; CME Letter at 6; DTCC Letter at 5; Oppenheimer Letter at 3;
and Direct Edge Letter at 3.

306

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 11; Omgeo Letter at 6; MFA Letter at 6; SIFMA Letter at 2;
FIF Letter at 3; LiquidPoint Letter at 3; KCG Letter at 18; OCC Letter at 3; and Joint
SROs Letter at 5.

307

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18099.
108

relating to security standards and systems intrusions apply to such systems (i.e., indirect SCI
systems).
Many commenters objecting to the proposed definition as too broad addressed particular
elements of the proposed definition of SCI security systems or provided specific
recommendations for modifications or limitations to the definition. 308 For example, some
commenters criticized the use of the phrase “share network resources,” noting that it was vague
and too broad, potentially encompassing almost any system of an SCI entity. 309 Similarly, one
commenter stated that the definition of SCI security system should include only systems that
“directly” share network resources with an SCI system. 310 One commenter argued that the
definition should only include those systems that are materially and directly connected to the
trading operations of an SCI entity. 311 Several commenters recommended that systems that are
logically and/or physically separated from SCI systems should be excluded from the
definition. 312 Some commenters qualified this position by stating that such systems should be
excluded, for example, as long as SCI entities monitor those systems for security breaches and

308

See NYSE Letter at 12; BATS Letter at 5-6; ISE Letter at 7-8; BIDS Letter at 16-17;
SROs Letter at 15; Direct Edge Letter at 3; FINRA Letter at 13; ISE Letter at 8; and
DTCC Letter at 5; and ITG Letter at 12.

309

See NYSE Letter at 12; BATS Letter at 5; and ISE Letter at 7-8.

310

See BIDS Letter at 16-17.

311

See ITG Letter at 12 (stating that its suggested approach would, in its case, cover systems
for order handling and execution, processing of market data, transaction reporting, and
clearing and settlement of trades).

312

See, e.g., Joint SROs Letter at 15 (stating that the term “SCI security systems” should be
deleted, but if retained, should exclude those systems that are physically and logically
separated); BATS Letter at 5-6; Direct Edge Letter at 3; FINRA Letter at 13; ISE Letter
at 8; and DTCC Letter at 5.

109

have the ability to shut the system off if they detect a security breach; 313 or provided that the
separation is routinely monitored and has appropriate risk controls in place and the system is “air
gapped” (i.e., has no point of entry) from the public internet. 314 One commenter believed that
the definition should exclude any system with “compensatory controls in place,” which it stated
would protect and secure SCI systems from vulnerabilities that could arise from shared network
links. 315 Another commenter asked for greater clarity on the extent to which SCI security
systems that are isolated from production, such as email and intranet sites, raise security issues
that are within the scope of the proposal. 316
After careful consideration of these comments, the Commission believes that inclusion of
the phrase “share network resources” in the proposed definition could be interpreted in a manner
that would include almost any system that is part of an SCI entity’s network. In response to
commenters who expressed concern about the breadth of the proposed definition, the
Commission has determined to eliminate the phrase “share network resources” from the
definition, so that the adopted result-oriented test depends on whether a system “if breached,
would be reasonably likely to pose a security threat to SCI systems.” As a result, the inquiry into
whether any system is an indirect SCI system will depend on whether it is effectively physically
or logically separated from SCI systems. Systems that are adequately physically or logically
separated (i.e., isolated from SCI systems, such that they do not provide vulnerable points of
entry into SCI systems) will not fall within the definition of indirect SCI systems.

313

See BATS Letter at 5-6.

314

See Direct Edge Letter at 3.

315

See FINRA Letter at 13.

316

See ISE Letter at 8.

110

The Commission believes that having adequate separation and security controls should
protect SCI systems from vulnerabilities caused by other systems. To the extent that non-SCI
systems are sufficiently walled off from SCI systems using appropriate security measures, and
thus are not reasonably likely to pose a security threat to SCI systems if breached, they would not
be included in the definition of indirect SCI systems, and thus would be outside of the scope of
Regulation SCI.
The Commission notes that the definition of indirect SCI systems will not include any
systems of an SCI entity for which the SCI entity establishes reasonably designed and effective
controls that result in SCI systems being logically or physically separated from such non-SCI
systems. Thus, the universe of an SCI entity’s indirect SCI systems is in the control of each SCI
entity, and SCI entities should reasonably expect Commission staff to assess its security controls
around SCI systems in connection with an inspection or examination for compliance with
Regulation SCI. If these controls are not present or are not reasonably designed, the applicable
non-SCI systems would be within the scope of the definition of indirect SCI systems and subject
to the security standards and systems intrusions provisions of Regulation SCI.
Some commenters recommended that, rather than including SCI security systems in the
scope of the regulation, the Commission should instead require SCI entities to establish policies
and procedures designed to ensure the security of their systems. 317 According to these
commenters, such an approach would require an evaluation of the risks posed to SCI systems by
non-SCI systems. As noted, the Commission believes that the adopted definition of “indirect
SCI systems” will effectively require SCI entities to evaluate the risks posed to SCI systems by
317

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 12; MFA Letter at 6; SIFMA Letter at 2; FIF Letter at 3;
LiquidPoint Letter at 3; KCG Letter at 18; OCC Letter at 3; and Joint SROs Letter at 5.

111

non-SCI systems. However, the Commission believes that the adopted approach will incentivize
SCI entities to seek to have in place strong security controls around SCI systems. As noted, if an
SCI entity designs and implements security controls so that none of its non-SCI systems would
be reasonably likely to pose a security threat to SCI systems, then it will have no indirect SCI
systems. If, however, an SCI entity does have indirect SCI systems, then certain provisions of
Regulation SCI will apply to those indirect SCI systems. 318 The Commission believes this
approach to indirect SCI systems is more appropriate than the policies and procedures approach
suggested by some commenters because the Commission believes that its approach is more
comprehensive as it includes, for example, the requirements to take corrective action, provide
notifications to the Commission, and disseminate information for certain SCI events relating to
indirect SCI systems which, by definition, if breached, would be reasonably likely to pose a
security threat to SCI systems. Another commenter stated that a more precise definition of SCI
security systems is important and that it would be valuable for the Commission to work with
representatives within the securities industry to collectively craft the most appropriate definition
that will ensure that critical security systems are captured. 319 In crafting the definition, the
Commission has taken into account comments received, with such commenters representing a
wide variety of types of participants in the securities markets, and believes the adopted definition
of indirect SCI systems, along with the definition of SCI systems, is responsive to a broad range
of commenters’ concerns. 320

318

See infra notes 323-328 (discussing the provisions of Regulation SCI applicable to
indirect SCI systems).

319

See DTCC Letter at 5.

320

See supra note 17 and accompanying text.

112

Another commenter suggested that the definition be limited to systems “of, or operated
by or on behalf of, an SCI entity,” noting that the definition of SCI security systems should have
parallel construction to the definition of “SCI systems” and without this phrase, SCI entities
would be tasked inappropriately with controlling for systems outside of their effective control. 321
As noted, the adopted definition of “indirect SCI systems” applies to those systems “of, or
operated by or on behalf of, an SCI entity.” As a result, the adopted definition of indirect SCI
systems provides (as is the case for SCI systems) that systems “of, or operated by or on behalf
of” an SCI entity, are included in the definition of indirect SCI systems if their breach would be
reasonably likely to pose a security threat to SCI systems. 322 The Commission believes that the
addition of this language is warranted to make clear that security of SCI systems is not limited
solely to threats from systems operated directly by the SCI entity. If it were, outsourced systems
of SCI entities would not be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI, which would
undermine the goals of Regulation SCI.
As discussed in further detail below, unlike SCI systems, those systems meeting the
definition of “indirect SCI systems” will only be subject to certain provisions of Regulation SCI.
Specifically, references to “indirect SCI systems” are included in the definitions of “responsible
SCI personnel,” “SCI review,” and “systems intrusion” in adopted Rule 1000. 323 Rule 1001(a),
requiring reasonably designed policies and procedures to ensure operational capability, will

321

See MSRB Letter at 7.

322

See supra Section IV.A.2.b (discussing the inclusion of third party systems in the
definition of “SCI systems”).

323

See adopted Rule 1000.

113

apply to indirect SCI systems only for purposes of security standards. 324 In addition, Rule 1002,
which relates to an SCI entity’s obligations with regard to SCI events, will apply to indirect SCI
systems only with respect to systems intrusions. 325 Further, pursuant to Rule 1003(a), the
obligations related to systems changes will apply to material changes to the security of indirect
SCI systems. 326 In addition, the requirements regarding an SCI review will apply to indirect SCI
systems. 327 Finally, Rules 1005 through 1007, relating to recordkeeping and electronic filing and
submission of Form SCI, respectively, will also apply to indirect SCI systems. 328 The
Commission believes that it is appropriate to subject indirect SCI systems to only these specified
provisions because the Commission believes that the primary risk posed by indirect SCI systems
is that they may serve as vulnerable entry points to SCI systems. The Commission’s objective
with respect to indirect SCI systems is to guard against a non-SCI system being breached in a
manner that threatens the security of any SCI system. The Commission believes that its
approach to defining indirect SCI systems, and requiring SCI entities to consider, address, and
report on security changes and intrusions into systems where vulnerabilities have been identified,
is tailored to meet this objective.

324

See adopted Rule 1001(a) and supra Section IV.B.1 (discussing the policies and
procedures requirement under Rule 1001(a)).

325

See adopted Rule 1000 (definitions of system compliance and systems disruption, which
do not include indirect SCI systems, and the definition of systems intrusion, which
includes indirect SCI systems) and supra Section IV.B.3 (discussing an SCI entity’s
obligations with respect to SCI events).

326

See adopted Rule 1003(a)(i) and Section IV.B.4 (discussing requirements relating to
material systems changes).

327

See adopted Rule 1003(b) and Section IV.B.5 (discussing the SCI review requirement).

328

See adopted Rules 1005-1007 and Section IV.C (discussing the recordkeeping and
electronic filing of Form SCI).

114

3.

SCI Events

Regulation SCI specifies the types of events—i.e., SCI events—that give rise to certain
obligations under the rule, including taking corrective action, reporting to the Commission, and
disseminating information about such SCI events. 329 Proposed Rule 1000(a) defined the term
“SCI event” as “an event at an SCI entity that constitutes: (1) a systems disruption; (2) a systems
compliance issue; or (3) a systems intrusion.” 330 The Commission is adopting the definition of
“SCI event” as proposed.
Many commenters believed that the proposed definition of “SCI event” was vague 331 or
overly broad because it was not limited to capturing material SCI events 332 or events that the
commenters believed are truly disruptive and pose a risk to the market. 333 Specifically, several
commenters recommended that the definition of SCI event include a materiality threshold, so
that only events determined by the SCI entity to be material would trigger certain obligations
under the rule. 334 One commenter stated that the definition of SCI event could be interpreted to

329

See infra Section IV.B.3 (discussing an SCI entity’s obligations with respect to SCI
events).

330

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.B.3.

331

See ITG Letter at 12; and OTC Markets Letter at 16.

332

See FIF Letter at 2; ITG Letter at 12; DTCC Letter at 5; and OTC Markets Letter at 16.

333

See NYSE Letter at 3; ICI Letter at 4; Oppenheimer Letter at 3. See also supra note 231
and accompanying text (discussing comment that the definition of SCI systems should be
revised to cover only those systems where a disruption, compliance issue, intrusion or
material systems change would impact investors and markets that are subject to the
Commission’s jurisdiction).

334

See, e.g., FIF Letter at 2 (suggesting factors for determining what is a material SCI event,
and urging that only material SCI events be subject to notification requirements); ITG
Letter at 12 (suggesting that a Commission notification requirement apply only to those
events that have a material impact on the ongoing maintenance of fair and orderly
markets in an NMS security); and DTCC Letter at 5 (recommending that each component
of the term SCI event be limited by a materiality threshold and be “risk-based” so that the
115

include trivial events, and therefore believed that the definition needed clarity. 335 Finally, one
commenter suggested that SCI event be defined as outlined in Rule 301(b)(6)(ii)(G) under
Regulation ATS, 336 which requires a qualifying ATS to notify the Commission of material
systems outages and significant systems changes. 337
After careful consideration of the views of commenters, although the Commission is
adopting the definition of “SCI event” as proposed, the requirements of Regulation SCI are
tiered in a manner that the Commission believes is responsive to the concerns of commenters
about the breadth of the definition. 338 Specifically, and as explained in further detail below, the
Commission is incorporating a risk-based approach to the obligations of SCI entities with respect
to SCI events. 339
The Commission is not incorporating a materiality threshold as requested by some
commenters, 340 including by limiting the definition of SCI event to only those events that are
considered by SCI entities to be truly disruptive to the market. 341 Rather, the Commission

term includes events that cause a disruption to the SCI entity’s ability to conduct its core
functions).
335

See ITG Letter at 12.

336

17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(ii)(G).

337

See OTC Markets Letter at 16. In addition, some commenters objected to the inclusion
of systems compliance issues within the definition of SCI events. See infra notes 403405 and accompanying text.

338

See supra notes 331-337 and accompanying text.

339

Under this risk-based approach, for example, de minimis SCI events will not be subject to
the immediate Commission reporting requirements as proposed, but rather, SCI entities
will only be required to make, keep, and preserve records regarding de minimis SCI
events and submit de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions to
the Commission in quarterly summary reports. See Rule 1002(b)(5).

340

See supra notes 334 and 337 and accompanying text.

341

See supra note 333 and accompanying text.

116

believes that the adopted Commission notification and information dissemination requirements
for SCI events will help to focus the Commission’s and SCI entities’ resources on the more
significant SCI events by providing appropriate exceptions from reporting and dissemination for
events that have no or de minimis impacts on an SCI entity’s operations or market participants.
In addition, the Commission believes that SCI event should not be defined as outlined in Rule
301(b)(6)(ii)(G) under Regulation ATS as suggested by one commenter, 342 because Rule
301(b)(6)(ii)(G) requires Commission notification of “material systems outages.” 343 Such an
approach would exclude any systems compliance issues or systems intrusions, two types of
events that the Commission believes should be included as SCI events. This approach would
also create a materiality threshold for systems disruptions, which the Commission believes
would not be appropriate, as discussed below.
In addition, by not including a materiality threshold within the definition, SCI entities
will be required to assess, take corrective action, and keep records of all such events, some of
which may initially seem insignificant to an SCI entity, but which may later prove to be the
cause of significant systems issues at the SCI entity. An SCI entity’s records of de minimis SCI
events may also be useful to the Commission in that they may, for example, aid the Commission
in identifying patterns of de minimis SCI events that together might result in a more impactful
SCI event, either at an SCI entity or across a group of SCI entities, or circumstances in which an
SCI event causes de minimis systems issues for one particular SCI entity but results in
significant issues for another SCI entity. The Commission also believes that the ability to view

342

See supra note 337 and accompanying text.

343

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(ii)(G). Rule 301(b)(6)(ii)(G) also requires that ATSs
promptly notify the Commission of significant systems changes.

117

such events in the aggregate and across multiple SCI entities is important to allow the
Commission and its staff to be able to gather information about trends related to SCI events that
could not otherwise be properly discerned. Information about trends will assist the Commission
in fulfilling its oversight role by keeping Commission staff informed about the nature and
frequency of the types of de minimis SCI events that SCI entities encounter. Moreover,
information about trends and notifications of de minimis SCI events generally can also inform
the Commission of areas of potential weaknesses, or persistent or recurring problems, across SCI
entities and also should help the Commission better focus on common types of SCI events or
issues with certain types of SCI systems across SCI entities. This information also will permit
the Commission and its staff to issue industry alerts or guidance if appropriate. In addition, this
information would allow the Commission and its staff to review SCI entities’ classification of
SCI events as de minimis SCI events.
In addition, although the definition of SCI event is unchanged, to address commenters’
concerns, the Commission has determined to modify the various components of that definition
(i.e., the definition of systems disruption, systems compliance issue, and systems intrusion), in
certain respects, as discussed below.
a.

Systems Disruption

Proposed Rule 1000(a) would have defined “systems disruption” as “an event in an SCI
entity’s SCI systems that results in: (1) a failure to maintain service level agreements or
constraints; (2) a disruption of normal operations, including a switchover to back up equipment
with near-term recovery of primary hardware unlikely; (3) a loss of use of any SCI system; (4) a
loss of transaction or clearance and settlement data; (5) significant backups or delays in
processing; (6) a significant diminution of ability to disseminate timely and accurate market data;

118

or (7) a queuing of data between systems components or queuing of messages to or from
customers of such duration that normal service delivery is affected.” 344 As discussed below, in
response to comments, the Commission is substantially modifying the proposed definition of
systems disruption in adopted Rule 1000.
One commenter stated that the proposed definition of systems disruption was reasonable,
but recommended that it be expanded to encompass disruptions originating from a third party. 345
However, many other commenters believed that the definition of systems disruption was too
broad and would include minor events that they believed should be excluded from the
definition. 346 Several commenters suggested ways to limit the scope of the defined term. For
example, some commenters suggested limiting the definition to material disruptions. 347 One of
these commenters added that systems disruptions should exclude any regularly planned outages
occurring during the normal course of business. 348 Another commenter recommended that
development and testing environments should be excluded from the definition of systems
disruption. 349 One commenter suggested modifying the definition to include only two elements:
(1) disruptions of either the SCI systems or of the operations of the SCI entity that have the effect

344

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.B.3.a.

345

See Lauer Letter at 5-6.

346

See, e.g., FINRA Letter at 16; BATS Letter at 9; Omgeo Letter at 7; NYSE Letter at 14;
Joint SROs Letter at 6; OCC Letter at 6; SIFMA Letter at 9-10; and OTC Markets Letter
at 21.

347

See DTCC Letter at 6; SIFMA Letter at 9; OCC Letter at 6; OTC Markets Letter at 21;
and Joint SROs Letter at 6.

348

See DTCC Letter at 7.

349

See FINRA Letter at 11, 16 (noting also that the many elements of the defined term were
vague). See also Section IV.A.2.b (discussing the definition of “SCI systems,” including
the elimination of test and development systems from its definition).

119

of disrupting the delivery of the SCI service provided by those systems; and (2) degradations of
SCI systems processing creating backups or delays of such a degree and duration that the
delivery of service is effectively disrupted or unusable by the market participants who use the
systems. 350
Two commenters believed that the proposed definition of systems disruption was too
rigid and should provide for more flexibility and discretion. 351 Both commenters were skeptical
that an event should be reportable solely because it matched the description of one of the seven
elements of the definition. 352 One of these commenters noted that the Commission’s proposed
definition seeks to codify as a formal definition language used by the ARP Inspection Program
that was meant to provide flexibility and latitude in determining what constitutes a systems
disruption. 353 The other commenter thought that the seven prongs of the proposed definition of
“systems disruption” were appropriate considerations in determining whether a systems
disruption had occurred, but that an SCI entity should be afforded more discretion and flexibility
in determining whether a particular issue meets the definition. 354
Service Level Agreements
Two commenters believed that the first element of the definition regarding service level
agreements should be eliminated. 355 One of these commenters stated that an SCI entity’s

350

See Omgeo Letter at 11.

351

See Omgeo Letter at 7; and OCC Letter at 6-8.

352

See Omgeo Letter at 7; and OCC Letter at 6-8.

353

See Omgeo Letter at 7.

354

See OCC Letter at 6. This commenter also critiqued or requested clarification for each
prong of the definition, as discussed further below.

355

See NYSE Letter at 13; and BATS Letter at 9.

120

regulatory requirements should not depend upon the negotiated language of an agreement
between business partners, while the other commenter noted that, in some cases, a private
contract might have more stringent requirements than required by regulation, which would, in
effect, transform such agreements into new regulatory obligations. 356 Other commenters stated
this element should be revised to capture only the most significant disruptions to a service level
agreement. 357 In addition, one commenter expressed concern that SCI entities may forgo
negotiating detailed and stringent service level agreements if the first element were to be adopted
as proposed. 358
Disruptions of Normal Operations
Two commenters stated that the second element of the definition needs clarification
because the phrase “disruption of normal operations” is vague and overbroad and therefore could
potentially include minor events. 359 Two commenters stated that, if a switchover is utilized and
there is no material impact on the core services, then there should not be a requirement to notify
the Commission of a systems disruption. 360 One of these commenters added that programming
errors that occur prior to production and regularly scheduled maintenance should not be

356

See NYSE Letter at 13; and BATS Letter at 9.

357

See DTCC Letter at 7 (suggesting that the definition capture only the most significant
disruptions to a service level agreement that are caused by the SCI entity and that impede
its ability to perform its core functions and critical operations); and OCC Letter at 7. See
also Omgeo Letter at 9 (noting concerns that this element could require reporting of
events too minor to be noticed by participants and that do not cause any disruptions of
service or material risks to the entity or users).

358

See OCC Letter at 7.

359

See NYSE Letter at 13; and Omgeo Letter at 8.

360

See BATS Letter at 9; and SIFMA Letter at 10.

121

considered disruptions. 361 Several commenters also recommended that testing errors should not
be included in the definition, 362 and one commenter stated that testing errors should only be
included if they result in a material impact on an SCI entity’s operations. 363
Loss of Use of Any System
One commenter stated that the term “loss of use of any SCI system” is unclear and
expressed concern that the lack of clarity may lead to interpretive differences and inconsistencies
in application among SCI entities. 364 Three commenters discussed failovers to backup systems,
with one commenter stating the Commission should clarify whether this constitutes a loss of use
of a system, 365 another commenter stating that it should not be considered a systems
disruption, 366 and the third commenter stating that it should only be considered a systems
disruption if there is an impact on normal operations. 367
Loss of Data
Several commenters stated that losses of transaction or clearance and settlement data that
are immediately retrieved, promptly corrected, or, for clearance and settlement data, resolved
prior to the close of the trading day should not be systems disruptions. 368 One commenter
361

See BATS Letter at 10.

362

See BATS Letter at 11; SIFMA Letter at 10; and NYSE Letter at 13.

363

See Omgeo Letter at 9 (noting that inclusion of testing errors would discourage SCI
entities from conducting effective quality assurance programs and could undermine good
quality engineering practices).

364

See OCC Letter at 7.

365

See id.

366

See NYSE Letter at 13.

367

See Direct Edge Letter at 3.

368

See, e.g., OCC Letter at 7; DTCC Letter at 7; SIFMA Letter at 10; and Omgeo Letter at
11.

122

suggested that the rule be revised to include as a systems disruption data that is altered or
corrupted in some way. 369 Another commenter stated that this prong of the definition should
include a materiality qualifier. 370
Backups or Delays and Market Data Dissemination
With respect to the fifth and sixth elements of the definition regarding significant
backups or delays in processing and a significant diminution of ability to disseminate timely and
accurate market data, one commenter expressed support for the inclusion of such performance
degradations in the definition of systems disruptions but stated that it believed that the
Commission’s interpretation of the term “significant” in the SCI Proposal was overly broad
because it would encompass delays that are small and, in fact, insignificant. 371
Data Queuing
With respect to the seventh element, one commenter stated that queuing of data is a very
good indicator of a problem, but also noted that it is not necessarily being properly monitored by
most firms and suggested that the Commission require SCI entities to monitor queue depth. 372
However, several other commenters stated that queuing of data is normal and necessary. 373
Some commenters suggested that the Commission should only require reporting of such queuing
if it materially affects the delivery of core services to customers. 374 One commenter asked for
369

See Omgeo Letter at 11.

370

See NYSE Letter at 14.

371

See Omgeo Letter at 9. See also Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18101-02.

372

See Lauer Letter at 5.

373

See, e.g., BATS Letter at 10; DTCC Letter at 7; SIFMA Letter at 10; Omgeo Letter at 10;
and Joint SROs Letter at 6.

374

See, e.g., BATS Letter at 10-11; DTCC Letter at 7; Omgeo Letter at 10; and OCC Letter
at 8.

123

additional clarification on this element because all systems have queues to some extent with
normal functionality and only certain queues should trigger recovery actions. 375 One commenter
expressed concern that language in the SCI Proposal stating that “queuing of data is a warning
signal of significant disruption” 376 would make events that are precursors to system disruptions
themselves become system disruptions. 377
Customer Complaints
Several commenters objected to the Commission’s discussion in the SCI Proposal
regarding customer complaints, 378 stating that the Commission should not consider each instance
in which a customer or systems user complains or inquires about a slowdown or disruption of
operations as an indicator of a systems disruption. 379 For example, one commenter noted that
customer complaints are often ultimately determined to be the result of system errors or
discrepancies on the customer’s end, and stated that requiring an SCI entity to treat these
complaints as significant systems disruptions simply because they are made would impose an
unnecessary burden on the SCI entity. 380
Definition of “Systems Disruption” as Adopted
After careful consideration of the views of commenters, the Commission is removing the
seven specific types of systems malfunctions that were proposed to define systems disruption.

375

See NYSE Letter at 14.

376

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18102.

377

See Omgeo Letter at 9.

378

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18102.

379

See, e.g., DTCC Letter at 7; Omgeo Letter at 10; BATS Letter at 11; NYSE Letter at 14;
and OCC Letter at 8.

380

See Omgeo Letter at 10-11.

124

As adopted, “systems disruption” is defined in Rule 1000 to mean “an event in an SCI entity’s
SCI systems that disrupts, or significantly degrades, the normal operation of an SCI system.”
The Commission has considered commenters’ suggestions and feedback with respect to the
proposed definition, including the criticisms of various aspects of the seven specific types of
systems malfunctions delineated in the SCI Proposal and believes that the adopted definition,
which largely follows the definition suggested by a commenter, is appropriate. 381 Specifically,
this commenter recommended that the definition of systems disruption be revised to have two
elements: (1) disruptions of either the SCI systems or of the operations of the SCI entity that
have the effect of disrupting the delivery of the SCI service provided by those systems; and (2)
degradations of SCI systems processing creating backups or delays of such a degree and duration
that the delivery of service is effectively disrupted or unusable by the market participants who
use the systems. 382
The Commission agrees with commenters that the proposed definition of systems
disruption had the potential to be both over-inclusive and under-inclusive. The Commission
believes that the adopted definition appropriately represents a change in focus of the definition
from the prescriptive seven prongs in the SCI Proposal’s definition that represented the effects
caused by a disruption of an SCI entity’s systems to, instead, whether a system is halted or
degraded in a manner that is outside of its normal operation. The Commission believes the
revised definition sets forth a standard that SCI entities can apply in a wide variety of
circumstances to determine in their discretion whether a systems issue should be appropriately
categorized as a systems disruption. Further, because the adopted definition of systems
381

See id. at 11.

382

See supra note 353 and accompanying text.

125

disruption takes into account whether a systems problem is outside of normal operations, the
Commission also believes that partly addresses the concerns of the commenters suggesting that
the definition of systems disruption include a materiality qualifier. 383
Because the Commission agrees with commenters regarding the difficulties of the
proposed definition of “systems disruption,” it is not including any of the specific types of
systems malfunctions in the adopted definition of “systems disruption.” Thus, the Commission
believes SCI entities would likely find it helpful to establish parameters that can aid them and
their staff in determining what constitutes the “normal operation” 384 of each of its SCI systems,
and when such “normal operation” has been disrupted or significantly degraded because those
parameters have been exceeded. The Commission agrees with commenters who noted that,
given its voluntary nature, entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program are afforded a
certain degree of flexibility and discretion in reporting systems outages, and agrees that, given its
proposed application to a mandatory rule, the proposed definition limited the flexibility and
discretion of SCI entities in a manner that was overly rigid. 385 Although the specific types of

383

As discussed more fully below, an SCI entity’s assessment of the impact of an event
meeting the definition of a systems disruption will affect whether it is subject to an
immediate Commission notification obligation, or a recordkeeping and quarterly
reporting obligation. See infra Section IV.B.3.c (discussing the exclusion of de minimis
systems disruptions from immediate Commission notification requirements in Rule
1002(b)(5)).

384

The Commission notes that, for certain SCI systems, “normal operation” may include a
certain degree of operational variability that would allow for a given amount of
degradation of functionality (e.g., some data queuing or some slowing of response times)
before the system’s operations reach the point of being “significantly degraded.”
However, such variability parameters may be included as part of an SCI entity’s policies
and procedures so that the SCI entity and its personnel would be aware of them before the
occurrence of systems issues.

385

Commenters highlighted many examples where a rigid interpretation of the proposed
definition had the potential to incorporate into the definition events that could be
126

systems malfunctions have been removed from the adopted definition of systems disruption, the
Commission nonetheless continues to believe, as suggested by one commenter, 386 that the types
of systems malfunctions that comprised the proposed definition may be useful to SCI entities to
consider as indicia of a systems disruption.
As discussed in the SCI Proposal 387 and by certain commenters, 388 the seven categories
of malfunctions in the proposed definition of “systems disruption” have their origin in ARP staff
guidance regarding when ARP participants should notify the Commission of system outages and
represent practical examples that SCI entities should consider to be systems disruptions in many
circumstances. The Commission notes that the revised definition is intended to address some
commenters’ concerns with the particular elements of the definition of systems disruption as
originally proposed. For example, under the modified definition, if an SCI system experiences
an unplanned outage but fails over smoothly to its backup system such that there is no disruption
or significant degradation of the normal operation of the system, the outage of the primary
system would not constitute a systems disruption. On the other hand, an SCI entity may
determine that, even when a primary system fails over smoothly to its backup system such that
users are not impacted by the failover, operating from the backup system without additional
redundancy would not constitute normal operation. In this case, the outage of the primary

considered part of normal operation. See, e.g., supra notes 361, 364, 368, 369, 374, and
379 and accompanying text. As adopted, however, such events would not be captured by
the definition of systems disruptions because an event that disrupts, or significantly
degrades, the normal operation of an SCI system would not be considered the “normal
operation” of such SCI system.
386

See supra note 354 and accompanying text.

387

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18101.

388

See supra note 353 and accompanying text.

127

system would fall within the definition of systems disruption. Further, the Commission believes
it would be appropriate for an SCI entity to take into account regularly scheduled outages or
scheduled maintenance as part of “normal operations.” 389 In particular, a planned disruption to
an SCI system that is a part of regularly scheduled outages or scheduled maintenance would not
constitute a systems disruption or be subject to the requirements of Regulation SCI, if such
regularly scheduled outages or scheduled maintenance are part of the SCI entity’s normal
operations. With regard to data queuing, to the extent that such queuing is part of the normal
functionality of a system and does not cause a disruption or significant degradation of normal
operations, it would not be captured by the rule, which is limited to events occurring to an SCI
system that are outside its normal operations. 390 Additionally, by eliminating the seven types of
malfunctions from the definition as proposed, the Commission has responded to commenters
who expressed concern that events that are precursors to system disruptions, such as the queuing
of data, would themselves be systems disruptions. 391 Similarly, by eliminating the seven types
of malfunctions, the Commission has addressed comments that called for the elimination of
specific elements of the proposed definition, such as service level agreements. 392
Further, the Commission agrees with commenters that customer complaints may be
indicia of a systems issue, 393 but that a customer complaint alone would not be determinative of

389

See supra note 361 and accompanying text.

390

See supra notes 372-377 and accompanying text.

391

See supra note 377 and accompanying text.

392

See supra notes 355 and 358 and accompanying text.

393

The Commission agrees, as noted by some commenters, that in some instances, customer
complaints may be the result of a problem at a system not operated by (or on behalf of)
an applicable SCI entity, but rather a system operated by the customer itself. See supra
note 380 and accompanying text.

128

whether a system problem has occurred that meets the definition of systems disruption under
Regulation SCI. 394 With respect to the commenters who stated that losses of transaction or
clearance and settlement data that are immediately retrieved, promptly corrected, or, for
clearance and settlement data, resolved prior to the close of the trading day should not be
systems disruptions, the adopted definition would exclude these events if they do not disrupt or
significantly degrade the normal operations of an SCI system. 395 However, if loss of transaction
or clearance and settlement data disrupts or significantly degrades the normal operation of an
SCI system, it would constitute a systems disruption and be subject to the requirements of
Regulation SCI (e.g., immediate or quarterly Commission notification, depending on the impact
of the disruption).
Several commenters also suggested that testing errors or other disruptions in development
and testing environments should be excluded from the definition of systems disruption. 396 The
Commission notes that, as discussed above, development and testing systems have been
excluded from the definition of SCI systems, and thus such disruptions would not be subject to
the requirements of Regulation SCI. 397

394

See supra notes 379-380 and accompanying text.

395

See supra note 368. The Commission notes that for clearance and settlement systems,
normal operations would include all steps necessary to effectuate timely and accurate end
of day settlement. In response to the commenter who stated that the definition of systems
disruption should be revised to include data that is altered or corrupted in some way,
because the Commission has determined to eliminate the pronged approach to the
definition of systems disruption, the Commission notes that, under the adopted definition,
data that is altered or corrupted in some way may be a systems disruption if such altered
or corrupted data disrupt or significantly degrade the affected SCI system’s normal
operation. See supra note 369.

396

See supra notes 361-363 and accompanying text.

397

See supra Section IV.A.2.b (discussing the definition of “SCI systems”).

129

The Commission is not incorporating a materiality threshold into the definition of
systems disruption as requested by some commenters. 398 Rather, as discussed below, the
requirements of Regulation SCI are tiered in a manner that the Commission believes is
responsive to commenters’ concerns regarding the breadth of the definition of systems disruption
(while stopping short of including a materiality standard). 399 In particular, the Commission
believes that the adopted Commission notification and information dissemination requirements
for SCI events (i.e., quarterly Commission reporting of de minimis systems disruptions, and an
exception for de minimis systems disruptions from the information dissemination requirement)
will help to focus the Commission’s and SCI entities’ resources on the more significant systems
disruptions. In addition, by not including a materiality threshold within the definition, SCI
entities will be required to assess, take corrective action, and keep records of all systems
disruptions, some of which may initially seem insignificant to an SCI entity, but which may later
prove to be the cause of significant systems disruptions at the SCI entity. An SCI entity’s
records of de minimis systems disruptions may also be useful to the Commission in that they
may, for example, aid the Commission in identifying patterns of de minimis systems disruptions
that together might result in a more impactful SCI event, either at an SCI entity or across a group
of SCI entities, or circumstances in which a systems disruption causes de minimis systems issues
for one particular SCI entity but results in significant issues for another SCI entity. The
Commission also believes that the ability to view de minimis SCI events in the aggregate and
398

See supra note 347 and accompanying text.

399

See Rule 1002(b)(5) and infra Section IV.B.3.c (discussing the Commission notification
requirement for SCI events and requiring a quarterly summary report for de minimis
systems disruptions). See also Rule 1002(c)(4) and infra Section IV.B.3.d (discussing
information dissemination requirement for certain SCI events, but excluding de minimis
systems disruptions).

130

across multiple SCI entities is important to the Commission and its staff to be able to gather
information about trends related to such systems disruptions that could not otherwise be properly
discerned. Information about trends will assist the Commission in fulfilling its oversight role by
keeping Commission staff informed about the nature and frequency of the types of de minimis
systems disruptions that SCI entities encounter. Moreover, information about trends can also
inform the Commission of areas of potential weaknesses, or persistent or recurring problems,
across SCI entities and also should help the Commission better focus on common types of
systems disruptions with certain types of SCI systems across SCI entities. This information also
would permit the Commission and its staff to issue industry alerts or guidance if appropriate. In
addition, this information would allow the Commission and its staff to review SCI entities’
classification of events as de minimis systems disruptions. Moreover, the Commission believes
that, even without adopting a materiality threshold, the adopted definition of SCI systems further
focuses the scope of the definition of systems disruption. 400
The Commission also believes that it is unnecessary to modify the definition of systems
disruption specifically to encompass disruptions originating from a third party, as one
commenter suggested. 401 The definition of systems disruption does not limit such events with
respect to the source of the disruption, whether an internal source at the SCI entity or an external
third party source.
b.

Systems Compliance Issue

Proposed Rule 1000(a) would have defined the term “systems compliance issue” as “an
event at an SCI entity that has caused any SCI system of such entity to operate in a manner that
400

See supra Sections IV.A.2.b (discussing the definition of “SCI systems”).

401

See supra note 345.

131

does not comply with the federal securities laws and rules and regulations thereunder or the
entity’s rules or governing documents, as applicable.” 402 The Commission is adopting the
definition of systems compliance issue substantially as proposed, with modifications to refine its
scope.
Two commenters stated that the term “systems compliance issue” should be deleted from
the definition of SCI event entirely. 403 One of these commenters stated that the inclusion of
systems compliance issue as an SCI event would be a departure from the ARP Inspection
Program and ARP Policy Statements. 404 The other commenter argued that any report regarding
a systems compliance issue is an admission that the SCI entity has violated a law, rule, or one of
its governing documents, creating a risk of an enforcement action or other liability for the SCI
entity. 405
Other commenters stated that the proposed definition is too broad and should be refined
to include only those issues that are material or significant. 406 Commenters’ specific
recommendations included limiting the definition to those systems compliance issues that: have
a material and significant effect on members; 407 can be reasonably expected to result in
significant harm or loss to market participants or impact the operation of a fair and orderly
402

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.B.3.b.

403

See Omgeo Letter at 13; and NYSE Letter at 16.

404

See Omgeo Letter at 14.

405

See NYSE Letter at 16.

406

See, e.g., Joint SROs Letter at 2, 8; ISE Letter at 6; SIFMA Letter at 13; Liquidnet Letter
at 3; CME Letter at 8; DTCC Letter at 6; OCC Letter at 13; and FINRA Letter at 17
(stating that systems compliance issues should be reportable only if they would directly
impact the market or a member firm’s ability to comply with FINRA rules). See also
BATS Letter at 13.

407

See ISE Letter at 6-7.

132

market; 408 or have a materially negative impact on the SCI entity’s ability to perform its core
functions. 409 One commenter also noted that the term should be specifically defined to take
account of an SCI entity’s function, such as clearing agencies’ ability to comply with Section
17A. 410
After considering the view of commenters that the proposed definition of systems
compliance issue is too broad, 411 the Commission is revising the definition to mean an event that
has caused an SCI system to operate “in a manner that does not comply with the Act” and the
rules and regulations thereunder and the entity’s rules and governing documents, as
applicable. 412 The Commission believes the refinement from “federal securities laws” to “the
Act” (i.e., the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) will appropriately focus the definition on
Exchange Act compliance rather than other areas of the federal securities laws. Although the
Commission did not receive specific comment suggesting that it amend the definition of systems
compliance issue by using the term “the Act” instead of the broader “federal securities laws,”
commenters did suggest that the Commission limit the scope of the definition to only apply to
those sections of the Act that are applicable to a particular SCI entity413 or the SCI entity’s

408

See Liquidnet Letter at 3; and CME Letter at 8. See also FINRA Letter at 17.

409

See DTCC Letter at 6; and OCC Letter at 13.

410

See DTCC Letter at 6. See also infra Sections IV.B.3.c and IV.B.3.d (discussing
comments with respect to systems compliance issues and their relation to Commission
notification and information dissemination to members or participants).

411

See supra note 406 and accompanying text.

412

As noted above, proposed Rule 1000 defined systems compliance issue as an event at an
SCI entity that has caused any SCI system of such entity to operate “in a manner that
does not comply with the federal securities laws” and rules and regulations thereunder or
the entity’s rules and governing documents, as applicable.

413

See supra note 410 and accompanying text.

133

rules. 414 The Commission agrees with these commenters insofar as they advocated for focusing
the scope to a more specific set of securities laws and for reducing the burden on SCI entities,
and further believes this refinement does not compromise the objective of the definition, which is
to capture systems compliance issues with respect to SCI entities’ obligations under the
Exchange Act. The Commission believes that the refinement provides additional clarity to SCI
entities that, for purposes of Regulation SCI, their obligations are with respect to compliance
with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and the entity’s rules and
governing documents. 415
The Commission disagrees with commenters who suggested removing systems
compliance issues from the definition of SCI event altogether. 416 Although systems compliance
issues have not been within the scope of the ARP Inspection Program, 417 the Commission
believes that inclusion of systems compliance issues in the definition of SCI event and the
resulting applicability of the Commission reporting, information dissemination, and
recordkeeping requirements to systems compliance issues is important to help ensure that SCI
systems are operated by SCI entities in compliance with the Exchange Act, rules thereunder, and
their own rules and governing documents.

414

See supra note 406 and accompanying text.

415

Notwithstanding this provision’s focus on compliance with the Exchange Act and the
rules and regulations thereunder and the entity’s rules and governing documents, the
Commission notes that its objective in adopting Regulation SCI is not, for example, to
change the obligations of SCI entities that are public companies with respect to their
disclosure obligations under the Securities Act of 1933. See 15 U.S.C. § 77a et seq.

416

See supra notes 403-405 and accompanying text.

417

See supra note 404 and accompanying text. See also Proposing Release, supra note 13, at
18087.

134

In addition, the Commission is not adopting a materiality qualifier 418 or other limiting
threshold 419 in the definition of systems compliance issue as suggested by some commenters.
Instead, the requirements of Regulation SCI are tiered in a manner that the Commission believes
is responsive to commenters’ concerns regarding the breadth of the definition of systems
compliance issue. 420 In particular, the Commission believes that the adopted Commission
notification requirement and the information dissemination requirement (each of which provides
an exception for systems compliance issues that have no or de minimis impacts on an SCI
entity’s operations or market participants) will help to focus the Commission’s and SCI entities’
resources on those systems compliance issues with more significant impacts. In addition, by not
including a materiality threshold within the definition, SCI entities will be required to assess,
take corrective action, and keep records of all systems compliance issues, some of which may
initially seem to have little or no impact, but which may later prove to be the cause of significant
systems compliance issues at the SCI entity. The Commission notes that all SCI entities are
required to comply with the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and their own
rules, as applicable. Therefore, even if an SCI entity determines that a systems compliance issue
has no or a de minimis impact, the Commission believes that it is important that it have ready
access to records regarding such de minimis systems compliance issues to allow it to more
effectively oversee SCI entities’ compliance with the Exchange Act and relevant rules. An SCI

418

See supra notes 406-407 and 409 and accompanying text.

419

See supra note 408.

420

See Rule 1002(b)(5) and infra Section IV.B.3.c (discussing the Commission notification
requirement for SCI events and the exclusion for de minimis systems compliance issues).
See also Rule 1002(c)(4) and infra Section IV.B.3.d (discussing the information
dissemination requirement for certain SCI events, but excluding de minimis systems
compliance issues).

135

entity’s records of de minimis systems compliance issues may also be useful to the Commission
in that they may, for example, aid the Commission in identifying areas of potential weaknesses,
or persistent or recurring problems, at an SCI entity or across multiple SCI entities. This
information also would permit the Commission and its staff to issue industry alerts or guidance if
appropriate. In addition, this information would allow the Commission and its staff to review
SCI entities’ classification of events as de minimis systems compliance issues.
Finally, the Commission believes that, even without adopting a materiality threshold, the
adopted definition of SCI systems, as described in Section IV.A.2 above, further focuses the
scope of the definition of systems compliance issue.
With respect to a commenter’s concern that any report regarding a systems compliance
issue would be an admission of a violation and thus create a risk of enforcement action or other
liability, 421 the Commission notes that the Commission notification requirement is not triggered
until a responsible SCI personnel has a reasonable basis to conclude that a systems compliance
issue has occurred. 422 The Commission acknowledges that it could consider the information
provided to the Commission in determining whether to initiate an enforcement action. However,
the Commission notes that the occurrence of a systems compliance issue also does not
necessarily mean that the SCI entity will be subject to an enforcement action. Rather, the
Commission will exercise its discretion to initiate an enforcement action if the Commission
determines that action is warranted, based on the particular facts and circumstances of an
individual situation.423 With respect to the potential for other types of liability as suggested by

421

See supra note 405 and accompanying text.

422

See supra Section IV.B.3.a (discussing the triggering standard).

423

See, e.g., infra notes 626-628 and accompanying text.

136

this commenter, many entities that fall within the definition of SCI entity already currently
disclose to the Commission and their members or participants certain information regarding
systems issues, including issues that may potentially give rise to liability. 424 Moreover, the
Commission recognizes that compliance with Regulation SCI will increase the amount of
information about SCI events available to the Commission and SCI entities’ members and
participants, and that the greater availability of this information has some potential to increase
litigation risks for SCI entities, including the risk of private civil litigation. The Commission
believes that the value of disclosure to the Commission, market participants and investors
justifies the potential increase in litigation risk. Moreover, the Commission notes that, to the
extent members and participants or the public suffer damages when SCI events occur, SCI
entities are already subject to litigation risk.
As adopted, Rule 1000 defines “systems compliance issue” as “an event at an SCI entity
that has caused any SCI system of such entity to operate in a manner that does not comply with
the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder or the entity’s rules or governing documents, as
applicable.” As noted in the SCI Proposal, a systems compliance issue could, for example, occur
when a change to an SCI system is made by information technology staff, without the knowledge
or input of regulatory staff, that results in the system operating in a manner that does not comply
with the Act and rules thereunder or the entity’s rules and other governing documents. 425 For an
SCI SRO, systems compliance issues would include SCI systems operating in a manner that does

424

See supra Section II.B (discussing recent events related to systems issues).

425

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18103.

137

not comply with the SCI SRO’s rules as defined in the Act and the rules thereunder. 426 For a
plan processor, systems compliance issue would include SCI systems operating in a manner that
does not comply with an applicable effective national market system plan. For an SCI ATS or
exempt clearing agency subject to ARP, a systems compliance issue would include SCI systems
operating in a manner that does not comply with documents such as subscriber agreements and
any rules provided to subscribers and users and, for an ATS, described in its Form ATS filings
with the Commission.427
c.

Systems Intrusion

Proposed Rule 1000(a) defined “systems intrusion” as “any unauthorized entry into the
SCI systems or SCI security systems of an SCI entity.” 428 The proposed definition is being
adopted as proposed, with one technical modification to replace the term “SCI security systems”
with “indirect SCI systems.” 429
While one commenter noted its general support for the inclusion of systems intrusions
within the scope of Regulation SCI, 430 this commenter and others stated that the proposed
definition was too broad or vague. 431 Several commenters asserted that the proposed definition
426

The rules of an SCI SRO include, among other things, its constitution, articles of
incorporation, and bylaws. See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(27)-(28). See also 17 CFR 240.19b4(c).

427

Subscriber agreements and other similar documents that govern operations of SCI ATSs
and exempt clearing agencies subject to ARP are generally not publicly available, but are
typically provided to subscribers and users of such entities. See 17 CFR 242.301(b) for a
description of the filing requirements for ATSs.

428

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.B.3.c.

429

See supra Section IV.A.2.d (discussing the definition of “indirect SCI systems”).

430

See NYSE Letter at 15.

431

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 15; BATS Letter at 12; DTCC Letter at 7; Omgeo Letter at 11;
SIFMA Letter at 10-11; and Joint SROs Letter at 7.

138

would capture too many insignificant and minor incidents. 432 Some commenters recommended
limiting the definition to material systems intrusions, and offered various suggestions for how to
do so. 433
One commenter stated that the proposed definition was overbroad because it would
include both intentional and unintentional conduct, as well as events that have no adverse
impact. 434 Another commenter also stated that the definition should be modified to make clear
that an intrusion that is inadvertent would not qualify as a systems intrusion. 435 This commenter
further stated that a systems intrusion should be limited to unauthorized access to confidential
information or to the SCI systems of an SCI entity that materially disrupts the operations of such

432

See, e.g., BATS Letter at 12; DTCC Letter at 7; Omgeo Letter at 11; SIFMA Letter at 1011; and Joint SROs Letter at 7.

433

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 15 (recommending that the definition include only major
intrusions that pose a plausible risk to the trading, routing, or clearance and settlement
operations of the exchange or to required market data transmission); Omgeo Letter at 1112 (expressing concern that the definition did not contain a reference to the materiality of
an intrusion, nor the intrusion’s impact on markets or market participants); DTCC Letter
at 7 (suggesting that the definition capture only unauthorized entries where the SCI entity
has reason to believe such entry could materially impact its ability to perform its core
functions or critical operations); Joint SROs Letter at 7 (stating that the definition should
include only those intrusions that the SCI entity reasonably estimated would result in
significant harm or loss to market participants); FINRA Letter at 18 (arguing that only
intrusions that have a material impact on the SCI system or a direct impact on the market
or market participants should be included); and OCC Letter at 13 (suggesting, as an
alternative to a “risk-based” approach, that the definition be limited to any unauthorized
entry into the SCI systems or SCI security systems of an SCI entity, which the SCI entity
reasonably believes may materially impact its ability to perform its core functions or
critical operations).

434

See, e.g., BATS Letter at 12.

435

See SIFMA Letter at 11.

139

systems. 436 Another commenter suggested that the definition focus on the unauthorized control
of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an SCI system and/or its data. 437
Some commenters noted that the proposed definition of systems intrusion did not take
into account the multi-layered nature of today’s technology systems. Two commenters stated
that the multi-layered protections of systems architecture are designed to anticipate intrusions
into the outer layer without material risk or impact, thus intrusions into such a peripheral system
should not constitute a systems intrusion under the rule. 438
Several commenters stated that only successful systems intrusions should be covered in
the definition. 439 One commenter suggested that this concept be made explicit in the rule text by
adding the term “successful” to the definition. 440 Two commenters, while supporting the
inclusion of only successful systems intrusions in the definition, pointed out the value of sharing
information regarding unsuccessful systems intrusions, stating that this practice already occurs
today among SCI entities, their regulators, and appropriate law enforcement agencies. 441
As adopted, Rule 1000 defines “systems intrusion” to mean “any unauthorized entry into
the SCI systems or indirect SCI systems of an SCI entity.” This definition is intended to cover
any unauthorized entry into SCI systems or indirect SCI systems, regardless of the identity of the
person committing the intrusion (whether they are outsiders, employees, or agents of the SCI
436

See id.

437

See NYSE Letter at 15.

438

See SIFMA Letter at 11; and Omgeo Letter at 12. The Commission discusses below the
comments that advocated greater Commission use of FS-ISAC for reporting systems
intrusions.

439

See BIDS Letter at 17; SIFMA Letter at 11; NYSE Letter at 15; DTCC Letter at 8.

440

See NYSE Letter at 15.

441

See BIDS Letter at 17; and DTCC Letter at 8.

140

entity), and regardless of whether or not the intrusion was part of a cyber attack, potential
criminal activity, or other unauthorized attempt to retrieve, manipulate, or destroy data, or access
or disrupt systems of SCI entities. Thus, for example, this definition is intended to cover the
introduction of malware or other attempts to disrupt SCI systems or indirect SCI systems
provided that such systems were actually breached. In addition, the definition is intended to
cover unauthorized access, whether intentional or inadvertent, by employees or agents of the SCI
entity that resulted from weaknesses in the SCI entity’s access controls and/or procedures. In
response to comments, the Commission emphasizes that the definition of systems intrusion does
not include unsuccessful attempts at unauthorized entry because an unsuccessful systems
intrusion is much less likely to disrupt the systems of an SCI entity than a successful intrusion.
The Commission believes that it is unnecessary and redundant to specifically state in the
definition of systems intrusion that unauthorized entries must be “successful” because the term
“entry” incorporates the concept of successfully gaining access to an SCI system or indirect SCI
system.
Further, the Commission is not incorporating a materiality threshold for the definition of
systems intrusion or otherwise limiting the definition of systems intrusion to only those systems
intrusions that are major or significant as requested by some commenters. The Commission
believes that, even without adopting a materiality threshold, the adopted definitions of SCI
systems and indirect SCI systems further focus the scope of the definition of systems intrusion.
Further, because any unauthorized entry into an SCI system or indirect SCI system is a security
breach of which the Commission, having responsibility for oversight of the U.S. securities
markets, should be notified, the Commission is not including a materiality threshold. In addition,
as discussed below, the requirements of Regulation SCI are tiered in a manner that the

141

Commission believes is responsive to commenters’ concerns regarding the breadth of the
definition of systems intrusion. 442 By not including a materiality threshold within the definition,
SCI entities will be required to assess, take corrective action, and keep records of all systems
intrusions, some of which may initially seem insignificant to an SCI entity, but which may later
prove to be the cause of significant systems issues at the SCI entity. An SCI entity’s records of
de minimis systems intrusions may also be useful to the Commission in that they may, for
example, aid the Commission in identifying patterns of de minimis systems intrusions that
together might result in a more impactful SCI event, either at an SCI entity or across a group of
SCI entities, or circumstances in which a systems intrusion causes de minimis systems issues for
one particular SCI entity but results in significant issues for another SCI entity. The Commission
also believes that the ability to view de minimis systems intrusions in the aggregate and across
multiple SCI entities is important to allow the Commission and its staff to be able to gather
information about trends related to such systems intrusions that could not otherwise be properly
discerned. Information about trends will assist the Commission in fulfilling its oversight role by
keeping Commission staff informed about the nature and frequency of the types of de minimis
systems intrusions that SCI entities encounter. Moreover, information about trends and
notifications of de minimis systems intrusions generally can also inform the Commission of
areas of potential weaknesses, or persistent or recurring problems, across SCI entities and also
should help the Commission better focus on common types of systems intrusions or issues with
certain types of SCI systems across SCI entities. This information also would permit the
442

See Rule 1002(b)(5) and infra Section IV.B.3.c (discussing the Commission notification
requirement for SCI events and requiring a quarterly summary report for de minimis
systems intrusions). See also Rule 1002(c)(4) and infra Section IV.B.3.d (discussing
information dissemination requirement for certain SCI events, but excluding de minimis
systems intrusions).

142

Commission and its staff to issue industry alerts or guidance if appropriate. In addition, this
information would allow the Commission and its staff to review SCI entities’ classification of
events as de minimis systems intrusions.
The Commission also is not distinguishing between intentional and unintentional systems
intrusions, as suggested by some commenters. 443 The Commission acknowledges that
intentional systems intrusions may result in more severe disruptions to the systems of an SCI
entity than unintentional or inadvertent intrusions. On the other hand, the Commission believes
that it should be notified of successful unintentional or inadvertent systems intrusions because
they can still indicate weaknesses in a system’s security controls. To the extent that these
systems intrusions have no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market
participants, they will only be subject to a quarterly reporting requirement and will be excepted
from the information dissemination requirement. 444
Additionally, the Commission does not agree that the definition of systems intrusion
should be limited to unauthorized access to confidential information 445 or should be focused on
the unauthorized control of the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of an SCI system and/or
its data 446 because the Commission believes that these modifications would create a definition
that would limit the Commission’s ability to be aware of events that fall outside the limited

443

See supra notes 434-435 and accompanying text.

444

See Rule 1002(b)(5) and infra Section IV.B.3.c (discussing the Commission notification
requirement for SCI events and requiring a quarterly summary report for de minimis
systems intrusions). See Rule 1002(c)(4), and infra Sections IV.B.3.d (discussing the
information dissemination requirements for certain SCI events, but excluding de minimis
systems intrusions).

445

See supra note 436 and accompanying text.

446

See supra note 437 and accompanying text.

143

definition that commenters suggested but that could, for example, have industry-wide
implications. Similarly, with respect to the comment that intrusions into a peripheral system
should not constitute a systems intrusion because the multi-layered protections of systems
architecture are designed to anticipate intrusions into the outer layer and help prevent material
risk or impact, 447 the Commission believes that its discussion of indirect SCI systems in Section
IV.A.2.d above responds to commenters’ concerns by explaining that systems intrusions into an
indirect SCI system could cause or increase the likelihood of an SCI event with respect to an SCI
system. And to the extent a system intrusion occurs with respect to an SCI system or indirect
SCI system but the SCI entity’s multi-layered systems architecture helps prevent material risk or
impact, the Commission notes that de minimis systems intrusions (if such a system intrusion was
determined to be de minimis) would be subject to less frequent Commission reporting
requirements and would not be subject to the information dissemination requirements.
B.

Obligations of SCI Entities – Rules 1001-1004

Proposed Rules 1000(b)(1)-(9) are renumbered as adopted Rules 1001-1004. Adopted
Rule 1001 corresponds to proposed Rules 1000(b)(1)-(2) and contains the policies and
procedures requirements for SCI entities with respect to operational capability and the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets (Rule 1001(a)), systems compliance (Rule 1001(b)), and
identification and designation of responsible SCI personnel and escalation procedures (Rule
1001(c)). 448 Adopted Rule 1002 corresponds to proposed Rules 1000(b)(3)-(5) and contains the
obligations of SCI entities with respect to SCI events, which include corrective action,

447

See supra note 438 and accompanying text.

448

The discussion of Rule 1001(c), which relates to the triggering standard for Rule 1002, is
discussed below in Section IV.B.3.a.

144

Commission notification, and information dissemination. Adopted Rule 1003 corresponds to
proposed Rules 1000(b)(6)-(8) and contains requirements relating to material systems changes
and SCI reviews. Finally, adopted Rule 1004 corresponds to proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) and
contains requirements relating to business continuity and disaster recovery plan testing, including
requiring participation of designated members or participants of SCI entities in such testing.
1.

Policies and Procedures to Achieve Capacity, Integrity, Resiliency,
Availability and Security – Rule 1001(a)
a.

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(1)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(1) would have required an SCI entity to: (1) establish, maintain,
and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems
and, for purposes of security standards, SCI security systems, have levels of capacity, integrity,
resiliency, availability, and security, adequate to maintain the SCI entity’s operational capability
and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets; and (2) include certain required
elements in such policies and procedures. As proposed, these policies and procedures were
required to provide for: (A) the establishment of reasonable current and future capacity planning
estimates; (B) periodic capacity stress tests of systems to determine their ability to process
transactions in an accurate, timely, and efficient manner; (C) a program to review and keep
current systems development and testing methodology; (D) regular reviews and testing of
systems, including backup systems, to identify vulnerabilities pertaining to internal and external
threats, physical hazards, and natural or manmade disasters; (E) business continuity and disaster
recovery plans that include maintaining backup and recovery capabilities sufficiently resilient
and geographically diverse to ensure next business day resumption of trading and two-hour
resumption of clearance and settlement services following a wide-scale disruption; and (F)
standards that result in systems being designed, developed, tested, maintained, operated, and
145

surveilled in a manner that facilitates the successful collection, processing, and dissemination of
market data.
Proposed Rule 1000(b)(1)(i) also provided that an SCI entity’s applicable policies and
procedures would be deemed to be reasonably designed if they were consistent with “current SCI
industry standards.” Proposed Rule 1000(b)(1)(ii) provided that “current SCI industry
standards” were to be comprised of “information technology practices that are widely available
for free to information technology professionals in the financial sector…and issued by an
authoritative body that is a U.S. governmental entity or agency, association of U.S. governmental
entities or agencies, or widely recognized organization.” 449 The SCI Proposal also included, on
“Table A,” a list of publications that the Commission had preliminarily identified as examples of
current SCI industry standards in each of nine information security domains. 450 The SCI
Proposal stated that an SCI entity, taking into account its nature, size, technology, business
model, and other aspects of its business, could, but would not be required to, use the publications
listed on Table A to establish, maintain, and enforce reasonably designed policies and procedures
that satisfy the requirements of proposed Rule 1000(b)(1). 451 The SCI Proposal also stated that
“current SCI industry standards” were not limited to those identified in the publications on Table
A and could include other publications meeting the proposed criteria for “current SCI industry

449

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18178

450

The domains covered in Table A of the SCI Proposal are: application controls; capacity
planning; computer operations and production environment controls; contingency
planning; information security and networking; audit; outsourcing; physical security; and
systems development methodology. See id. at 18111.

451

See id. at 18110.

146

standards.” 452 In addition, proposed Rule 1000(b)(1)(ii) stated that compliance with “current
SCI industry standards” would not be the exclusive means to comply with the requirements of
proposed Rule 1000(b)(1). 453
b.

Comments Received on Proposed Rule 1000(b)(1) and
Commission Response
i.

Policies and Procedures Generally – Rules 1001(a)(1)
and (3)

The Commission received a wide range of comments on proposed Rule 1000(b)(1). With
respect to policies and procedures generally, some commenters believed the proposal was too
prescriptive. 454 Several characterized it as a “one-size-fits-all” approach that did not adequately
take into account differences between SCI entities and SCI entity systems. 455 Several
commenters objecting to the rule as too prescriptive urged that the adopted rule incorporate a
risk-based framework, so that SCI entities and/or systems of greater criticality would be required
to adhere to a stricter set of policies and procedures than SCI entities and/or systems of lesser
criticality. 456 These commenters maintained that each SCI entity should have discretion to
calibrate its policies and procedures based on its own assessment of the criticality of the SCI

452

See id. at 18110 (stating that an SCI entity could elect standards contained in publications
other than those identified on proposed Table A to comply with the rule).

453

See id. at 18109.

454

See, e.g., Angel Letter at 2, 8; BIDS Letter at 7; FIF Letter at 3-4; Joint SROs Letter at 4;
LiquidPoint Letter at 3-4; MFA Letter at 3; and SIFMA Letter at 12-13.

455

See, e.g., FIF Letter at 3-4; FINRA Letter at 31; Joint SROs Letter at 4; KCG Letter at 23, 6-8; Liquidpoint Letter at 3-4; MFA Letter at 3; OCC Letter at 3-4; SIFMA Letter at
12-13; UBS Letter at 2-4; Tellefsen Letter at 13; and BIDS Letter at 2-3, 6-9.

456

See, e.g., Joint SROs Letter at 4; LiquidPoint Letter at 3; MFA Letter at 3; and SIFMA
Letter at 8, 12-13. See also FIF Letter at 4; MSRB Letter at 3; Fidelity Letter at 2; NYSE
Letter at 3, 4, 21; FINRA Letter at 13-14; and OCC Letter at 3.

147

entity and its systems to market stability, or that the Commission should “tier” the obligations of
SCI entities or SCI entity systems based on their market function. 457
In contrast, some commenters stated that the Commission’s proposed approach was too
vague or insufficient. 458 For example, one commenter characterized the minimum elements of
policies and procedures in proposed Rule 1000(b)(1)(A)-(F) as “so vague that they will fail to
provide any meaningful improvement in technological systems.” 459 Another commenter stated
that the proposed scope of required policies and procedures was appropriate, but that further
elaboration on the details was warranted. 460 One commenter stated that the proposed rule lacked
adequate discussion of what it means for policies and procedures to be reasonably designed “to
maintain…operational capability and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets.” 461
The Commission has carefully considered the views of commenters on its proposed
policies and procedures approach to ensuring adequate capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability,
and security of SCI systems (and security for indirect SCI systems). The Commission agrees
with commenters who stated that requiring SCI entities to have policies and procedures relating
to the capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security of SCI systems (and security for
indirect SCI systems) should not be a “one-size-fits-all” approach and, as discussed in detail
below, is therefore clarifying that the adopted rule is consistent with a risk-based approach, as it

457

See, e.g., Joint SROs Letter at 4; FINRA Letter at 13-14; MSRB Letter at 3; MFA Letter
at 6; NYSE Letter at 3, 4, and 21; SIFMA Letter at 12-13; FIF Letter at 4; Fidelity Letter
at 2; and OCC Letter at 3.

458

See Better Markets Letter at 3-5; CAST Letter at 4; CISQ Letter at 2, 5; CISQ2 Letter at
5; and Direct Edge Letter at 4.

459

See Better Markets Letter at 3.

460

See CISQ Letter at 2.

461

See Direct Edge Letter at 4.

148

allows an SCI entity’s policies and procedures to be tailored to a particular system’s criticality
and risk. As noted above, while some commenters characterized the proposed rule as too vague
and sought further specificity, others found the rule to be too prescriptive. The Commission
believes that the adopted rule provides an appropriate balance between these two opposing
concerns by providing a framework that identifies the minimum areas that are required to be
addressed by an SCI entity’s policies and procedures without prescribing the specific policies
and procedures that an SCI entity must follow, or detailing how each element in Rule 1001(a)(2)
should be addressed. Given the various types of systems at SCI entities, each of which represent
a different level of criticality and risk to each SCI entity and to the securities markets more
broadly, the adopted rule seeks to provide flexibility to SCI entities to design their policies and
procedures consistent with a risk-based approach, as discussed in further detail below. At the
same time, because the Commission believes that additional guidance on how an SCI entity may
comply with the rule is warranted in certain areas, the Commission is providing further guidance
below. In response to comment, the Commission is adopting Rule 1001(a) with modifications
that it believes will better provide SCI entities with sufficient flexibility to develop their policies
and procedures to achieve robust systems, while also providing guidance on how an SCI entity
may comply with the final rule. Specifically, adopted Rule 1001(a) is modified to: (i) clarify
that the rule is consistent with a risk-based approach that requires more robust policies and
procedures for higher-risk systems and provides an SCI entity with flexibility to tailor its policies
and procedures to the nature of its business, technology, and the relative criticality of each of its
SCI systems; (ii) make clear that an SCI entity’s reasonable policies and procedures remain
subject to ongoing self-assessment; (iii) provide increased flexibility in the manner in which an
SCI entity may satisfy the minimum elements of required policies and procedures; and (iv) revise

149

the criteria for “current SCI industry standards.” In addition, proposed Table A is
recharacterized and will be issued as staff guidance that will evolve over time.
Response to Commenters Advocating a Risk-Based Approach
Adopted Rule 1001(a)(1) requires each SCI entity to establish, maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems and, for
purposes of security standards, indirect SCI systems, have levels of capacity, integrity,
resiliency, availability, and security, adequate to maintain the SCI entity’s operational capability
and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets. The text of this part of the rule is
largely unchanged from the proposal. Although several commenters expressed concern that the
proposed rule would have imposed a “one-size-fits-all” approach, requiring all SCI entities to
hold all of their SCI systems to the same standards, 462 this was not the intent of proposed Rule
1000(b)(1), nor is it what adopted Rule 1001(a)(1) requires. By requiring an SCI entity to have
policies and procedures “reasonably designed” and “adequate” to maintain operational capability
and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, the adopted rule provides an SCI entity
with flexibility to determine how to tailor its policies and procedures to the nature of its business,
technology, and the relative criticality of each of its SCI systems. 463 Although the adopted rule
does not assign differing obligations to an SCI entity based on its registration status, or its
general market function, as some commenters urged, by allowing each SCI entity to tailor its
462

See supra note 455 and accompanying text.

463

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18109 (stating: “The Commission intends
to…provide SCI entities sufficient flexibility, based on the nature, size, technology,
business model, and other aspects of their business, to identify appropriate policies and
procedures that would meet the articulated standard, namely that they be reasonably
designed to ensure that their systems have levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency,
availability, and security adequate to maintain the SCI entity’s operational capability and
promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets.”).

150

policies and procedures accordingly, the adopted approach recognizes that there are differences
between, and varying roles played by, different systems at various SCI entities. In tandem with
the refined definition of “SCI systems,” the modified definition of “SCI security systems”
(adopted as “indirect SCI systems”), and the new definition of “critical SCI systems, 464 adopted
Rule 1001(a)(1) explicitly recognizes that policies and procedures that are “reasonably designed”
and “adequate” to maintain operational capability and promote the maintenance of fair and
orderly markets for critical SCI systems may differ from those that are “reasonably designed”
and “adequate” to maintain operational capability and promote the maintenance of fair and
orderly markets for other SCI systems, or indirect SCI systems. As such, the Commission
believes that its adopted approach in Regulation SCI is consistent with a risk-based approach,
and that adopted Regulation SCI may result in the systems of certain SCI entities (for example,
those that have few or no critical SCI systems) generally being subject to less stringent policies
and procedures than the systems of other SCI entities. Thus, a risk assessment is appropriate for
an SCI entity to determine how to tailor its policies and procedures for its SCI systems and
indirect SCI systems.
The Commission also believes that requiring an SCI entity to tailor its policies and
procedures so that they are reasonably designed and adequate will entail that an SCI entity assess
the relative criticality and risk of each of its SCI systems and indirect SCI systems. Evaluation
of the risk posed by any particular SCI system to the SCI entity’s operational capability and the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets will be the responsibility of the SCI entity in the first
instance. The Commission believes this approach will achieve the goal of improving
464

As a result of these changes, the adopted rule applies to fewer systems than as proposed,
and only to those types of systems that the Commission believes pose significant risk to
market integrity if not adequately safeguarded.

151

Commission review and oversight of U.S. securities market infrastructure, but will do so within a
more focused framework than as proposed. By being subject to requirements for a more targeted
set of SCI systems, and guided by consideration of the relative risk of each of its SCI systems,
SCI entities may more easily determine how to allocate their resources to achieve compliance
with the regulation than they would have under the proposed regulation.
As noted above, one commenter urged the Commission to discuss what it means for
policies and procedures to be reasonably designed “to maintain…operational capability and
promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets.” 465 This commenter characterized the
proposed standard of “maintaining operational capability” as an “introspective standard relevant
to the applicable SCI entity,” and the proposed standard of “promoting the maintenance of fair
and orderly markets” as implying “some incremental responsibility to the collective market.” 466
The Commission agrees with this commenter’s characterization and believes that it is appropriate
for SCI entities to assess the risk of their systems taking into consideration both objectives,
which are related and complementary. 467 Specifically, the Commission believes that it is
important that an SCI entity’s policies and procedures are reasonably designed to ensure its own
operational capability, including the ability to maintain effective operations, minimize or
eliminate the effect of performance degradations, and have sufficient backup and recovery
capabilities. At the same time, an SCI entity’s own operational capability can have broader

465

See supra note 461 and accompanying text.

466

See Direct Edge Letter at 4.

467

The Commission notes that the identification of “critical SCI systems” in Regulation SCI
emphasizes that some systems pose greater risk than others to the maintenance of fair and
orderly markets if they malfunction, and that it is appropriate for an SCI entity to
consider the risk to other SCI entities and market participants in the event of a systems
malfunction.

152

effects and, as entities that play a significant role in the U.S. securities markets and/or have the
potential to impact investors, the overall market, or the trading of individual securities, 468 the
Commission believes that the policies and procedures should also be reasonably designed to
promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets.
Periodic Review
Some commenters expressed concern that, when an SCI entity’s policies and procedures
fail to prevent an SCI event, the Commission might use such failure as the basis for an
enforcement action, charging that the policies and procedures were not reasonable. 469 One
commenter suggested that the Commission’s focus should be on an entity’s adherence to its own
set of policies and procedures, developed based on “experience, annual SCI reviews, and other
inputs,” rather than a “set of generic standards.” 470
In response to these comments, the Commission notes that the reasonably designed
policies and procedures approach taken in adopted Rule 1001(a) does not require an entity to
guarantee flawless systems. But the Commission believes it should be understood to require
diligence in maintaining a reasonable set of policies and procedures that keeps pace with
changing technology and circumstances and does not become outdated over time. The
Commission is therefore adopting a requirement for periodic review by an SCI entity of the
effectiveness of its policies and procedures required by Rule 1001(a), and prompt action by the

468

See supra note 59 and accompanying text.

469

See, e.g., BATS Letter at 3-4; Angel Letter at 2; and FSR Letter at 5. See also ITG Letter
at 14 (stating that no set of policies and procedures could guarantee perfect operational
compliance); and NYSE Letter at 32 (urging inclusion of a good faith safe harbor).

470

See FIF Letter at 4.

153

SCI entity to remedy deficiencies in such policies and procedures. 471 An SCI entity will not be
found to be in violation of this maintenance requirement solely because it failed to identify a
deficiency in its policies and procedures immediately after the deficiency occurred if the SCI
entity takes prompt action to remedy the deficiency once it is discovered, and the SCI entity had
otherwise reviewed the effectiveness of its policies and procedures and took prompt action to
remedy those deficiencies that were discovered, as required by Rule 1001(a)(3).
Further, the occurrence of a systems disruption or systems intrusion will not necessarily
mean that an SCI entity has violated Rule 1001(a), or that it will be subject to an enforcement
action for violation of Regulation SCI. The Commission will exercise its discretion to initiate an
enforcement action if the Commission determines that such action is warranted, based on the
particular facts and circumstances. While a systems problem may be probative as to the
reasonableness of an SCI entity’s policies and procedures, it is not determinative.
ii.

Minimum Elements of Reasonable Policies and
Procedures – Rule 1001(a)(2)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(1)(i) would have required that an SCI entity’s policies and
procedures provide for, at a minimum: (A) the establishment of reasonable current and future
capacity planning estimates; (B) periodic capacity stress tests of systems to determine their
ability to process transactions in an accurate, timely, and efficient manner; (C) a program to
review and keep current systems development and testing methodology; (D) regular reviews and
testing of systems, including backup systems, to identify vulnerabilities pertaining to internal and
external threats, physical hazards, and natural or manmade disasters; (E) business continuity and
disaster recovery plans that include maintaining backup and recovery capabilities sufficiently

471

See Rule 1001(a)(3).

154

resilient and geographically diverse to ensure next business day resumption of trading and twohour resumption of clearance and settlement services following a wide-scale disruption; and (F)
standards that result in systems being designed, developed, tested, maintained, operated, and
surveilled in a manner that facilitates the successful collection, processing, and dissemination of
market data. References to “systems” in the proposed rule were to the proposed definition of
SCI systems, and with respect to security standards only, the proposed definition of SCI security
systems.
Adopted Rule 1001(a)(2) includes the items formerly proposed as Rules
1001(b)(1)(i)(A)-(F) as renumbered Rules 1001(2)(i)-(vi) and a new item (vii), relating to
monitoring of SCI systems. Proposed items (A), (D), and (E) are revised in certain respects in
response to comment. In addition, the Commission discusses below each of the adopted
provisions of Rule 1001(a)(2) in the context of the adopted definitions of SCI systems and
indirect SCI systems, where relevant. 472
Capacity Planning
The SCI Proposal stated that policies and procedures for the establishment of reasonable
current and future capacity planning (proposed item (A)) would help an SCI entity determine its
systems’ ability to process transactions in an accurate, timely, and efficient manner, and thereby
help ensure market integrity. 473 One commenter expressed support for the requirement in

472

In particular, the Commission is adopting the language of items (B) and (C) as proposed
(renumbered as Rule 1001(a)(2)(ii) and (iii), respectively) but elaborates on the scope of
these provisions, as well as the scope of revised item (D) (renumbered as Rule
1001(a)(2)(iv)) and in the context of the adopted definitions of SCI systems and indirect
SCI systems.

473

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18107.

155

proposed item (A), 474 and another commenter recommended that proposed item (A) be revised to
make clear that SCI entity capacity planning estimates apply to “technology infrastructure”
capacity, as opposed to capacity with respect to non-technology infrastructure of an SCI
entity. 475 Because the Commission intended proposed item (A) to relate to capacity planning for
SCI systems, rather than capacity planning more broadly (for example, in relation to an SCI
entity’s office space), the Commission is including this suggested clarification in adopted Rule
1001(a)(2)(i), and thus requires that an SCI entity’s policies and procedures include the
establishment of reasonable current and future technology infrastructure capacity planning
estimates.
Stress Testing
A few commenters raised concerns about proposed item (B), which required periodic
capacity stress tests. 476 Some of these commenters urged that the adopted rule provide an SCI
entity with flexibility to determine, using a risk-based assessment, when capacity stress tests are
appropriate. 477 Others suggested that capacity stress tests be required in specified circumstances
or time frames, such as when new capabilities are released into production, 478 whenever required
system capacity increases by 10 percent, on a quarterly basis, or in conjunction with any material

474

See MSRB Letter at 9.

475

See DTCC Letter at 14-15. The Commission also received comments in regard to
capacity planning as it relates to proposed industry standards on the capacity planning
domain set out in proposed Table A. See, e.g., infra note 580and accompanying text.

476

See, e.g., CISQ Letter at 5; DTCC Letter at 14; Lauer Letter at 6; MSRB Letter at 9;
OCC Letter at 10; and SIFMA Letter at 12.

477

See DTCC Letter at 14; and OCC Letter at 10. See also SIFMA Letter at 12 (suggesting
that periodic capacity monitoring would be more appropriate and cost-effective than
periodic capacity stress testing).

478

See MSRB Letter at 9.

156

systems change. 479 One commenter suggested that SCI entities should supplement dynamic
stress and load testing with static analysis, a technique used to help uncover structural
weaknesses in software. 480 In proposing item (B), the Commission intended for SCI entities to
engage in a careful risk-based assessment (as suggested by some commenters) 481 of its SCI
systems to determine when to stress test its systems. 482 Rule 1001(a)(2)(ii), as adopted, affords
SCI entities the flexibility to consider the factors suggested by commenters, as appropriate for
their specific systems and circumstances. 483 The adopted rule does not prescribe a particular
frequency or trigger for stress testing; however, because the Commission believes that, in light of
the variability in SCI systems, an SCI entity’s experience with its particular systems and
assessment of risk in this area will dictate when capacity stress testing is warranted. The
requirement for periodic capacity stress tests of systems to determine their ability to process
transactions in an accurate, timely, and efficient manner is therefore adopted as proposed as Rule
1001(a)(2)(ii).
479

See Lauer Letter at 6.

480

See CISQ Letter at 5. See also infra notes 491 and 497, and 498 and accompanying text
(further discussing this comment and the commenter’s views on the value of assessing
the structural quality of software).

481

See supra note 477 and accompanying text.

482

In response to the commenter that suggested periodic capacity monitoring would be more
appropriate and cost-effective than periodic capacity stress testing, see supra note 477
and accompanying text, the Commission believes that such monitoring is appropriate and
may play an important role in an SCI entity’s assessing when to stress tests its systems.
However, the Commission continues to believe that stress testing is necessary to help an
SCI entity determine its systems’ ability to process transactions in an accurate, timely,
and efficient manner, and thereby help ensure market integrity. See Proposing Release,
supra note 13, at 18107. While monitoring may be a cost-effective method to determine
when a stress test is warranted, the Commission does not believe monitoring alone will
be an effective substitute for stress testing, which, unlike monitoring, is designed to
challenge systems capacity.

483

See supra notes 478-479 and accompanying text.

157

Systems Development and Testing Methodology
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission explained that proposed item (C), which would
require SCI entities to have policies and procedures for a “program to review and keep current
systems development and testing methodology,” would help an SCI entity monitor and maintain
systems capacity and availability. 484 The Commission is adopting the language of this item as
proposed as Rule 1001(a)(2)(iii).
Two commenters supported this requirement as proposed. 485 Another commenter argued
that sufficient controls were in place with respect to production systems, as proposed, and
therefore that separate policies and procedures specifically for the development and testing
environment would be unnecessary and duplicative. 486 This commenter added that, if
development and testing systems were not excluded from the definition of SCI systems
altogether, then the policies and procedures requirements regarding systems development and
testing methodology should not apply separately to these environments. The Commission agrees
with this comment, and believes it logically follows that policies and procedures requiring a
program to review and keep current systems development and testing methodology for SCI
systems, and indirect SCI systems, as applicable, are important if development and testing
systems are excluded from the definition of SCI systems, as they are under the adopted
regulation. 487 An SCI entity’s systems development and testing methodology is a core part of

484

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18107.

485

See CISQ Letter at 2; and MSRB Letter at 9.

486

See FINRA Letter at 12.

487

See supra Section IV.A.2.b (discussing the definition of “SCI systems”). Because
development and testing systems are not part of the adopted definition of “SCI systems,”
systems issues with regard to development and testing systems would not be subject to
the requirements of adopted Rule 1002 relating to corrective action, Commission
158

the systems development life cycle for any SCI system. Therefore, the Commission believes that
if an SCI entity did not have a program to review and keep current systems development and
testing methodology for SCI systems, and indirect SCI systems, as applicable, its ability to assess
the capacity, integrity, reliability, availability and security of its SCI systems and indirect SCI
systems, as applicable, would be undermined. In complying with this adopted requirement, an
SCI entity may wish to consider how closely its testing environment simulates its production
environment; whether it designs, tests, installs, operates, and changes SCI systems through use of
appropriate development, acquisition, and testing controls by the SCI entity and/or its third-party
service providers, as applicable; whether it identifies and corrects problems detected in the
development and testing stages; whether it verifies change implementation in the production
stage; whether development and test environments are segregated from SCI systems in
production; and whether SCI entity personnel have adequately segregated roles between the
development and/or test environment, and the production environment.
Reviews of SCI Systems and Indirect SCI Systems
The SCI Proposal explained that proposed item (D), which would have required an SCI
entity to establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures to review and test regularly SCI
systems (and SCI security systems, as applicable), including backup systems, to identify
vulnerabilities pertaining to internal and external threats, physical hazards, and natural or
manmade disasters, would assist an SCI entity in ascertaining whether such systems are and
remain sufficiently secure and resilient. 488 Proposed item (D) garnered a range of comments.

notification, and dissemination of information on SCI events; or Rule 1003(a) regarding
notification of systems changes.
488

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18107.

159

Some commenters addressing this item focused on internal SCI entity testing, 489 whereas others
focused more broadly on industry-wide testing and testing of backup systems. 490
With respect to comments on internal testing, one commenter suggested that the proposed
requirement be expanded beyond testing to cover a range of “quality assurance activities” with
each release of software into production. 491 Two commenters advocated for requiring an SCI
entity to focus on identifying structural deficiencies, which they stated pose much greater risks
than functional deficiencies. 492 A few commenters urged that groups independent of the team
that designed and developed the systems should be involved in testing to offer a diverse
perspective. 493 One of these commenters further suggested that enforcement of the policies
governing development and testing activities should be conducted by a “process audit” role that
evaluates compliance with policies, provides guidance to development and testing teams on how
to comply, and reports on compliance to senior management. 494

489

See, e.g., CAST Letter at 4; CISQ Letter at 3-7; FIA PTG Letter at 4; Lauer Letter at 6;
and MSRB Letter at 10.

490

See, e.g., Angel Letter at 2; CoreOne Letter at 3-5; DTCC Letter at 13; FIA PTG Letter at
2; FIX Letter at 1-2; Tradebook Letter at 1-4; UBS Letter at 4; and CISQ Letter at 6. See
also infra Section IV.B.6 (discussing adopted Rule 1004, requiring business continuity
and disaster recovery testing, including required participation of designated members or
participants of SCI entities in such testing).

491

See CISQ Letter at 3-7 (encouraging the Commission to require quality assurance
activities other than testing, including that an SCI entity evaluate and measure the
structural quality of its SCI systems because “the attributes of an SCI system most
critically affecting its capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security are
predominantly structural (engineering) rather than functional (correctness)”).

492

See CAST Letter at 4; and CISQ Letter at 3-7.

493

See, e.g., CISQ Letter at 7; and Lauer Letter at 6.

494

See CISQ Letter at 7. This commenter further recommended that such process audits be
conducted at least annually for each SCI system, and more often for SCI systems with
operational problems, a record of non-compliance, or those being developed, tested, or
operated by an inexperienced staff, and stated that process auditors who perform a
160

After careful consideration of the comments, the Commission is adopting this provision
with modifications as Rule 1001(a)(2)(iv). Specifically, adopted Rule 1001(a)(2)(iv) requires an
SCI entity’s reasonably designed policies and procedures to include “[r]egular reviews and
testing, as applicable, of [its SCI systems and, for purposes of security standards, indirect SCI
systems], including backup systems, to identify vulnerabilities pertaining to internal and external
threats, physical hazards, and natural or manmade disasters.”
As adopted, this provision will afford an SCI entity greater flexibility, through the
addition of the phrase “as applicable,” to determine how to identify vulnerabilities pertaining to
internal and external threats, physical hazards, and natural or manmade disasters. Specifically,
the adopted rule replaces the proposed rule’s requirement that an SCI entity conduct “regular
reviews and testing” of relevant systems (including backup systems) with a more flexible
requirement that an SCI entity conduct “regular reviews and testing, as applicable” of relevant
systems, including backup systems. In response to some commenters’ concerns that the
proposed requirement focused too much on regular testing and not enough on other methods to
assess systems operation, 495 the adopted rule provides an SCI entity the flexibility to determine
an assessment methodology that would be most appropriate for a given system, or particular
functionality of a system. Thus, consistent with commenters’ views, the adopted provision does
not specifically require both regular reviews and regular testing in connection with an SCI
entity’s identification of vulnerabilities. Instead, the provision requires reviews or testing (or

mentoring role to software teams have proven a cost-effective mechanism for on-the-job
training.
495

See supra notes 491-492 and accompanying text.

161

both) to occur as applicable, so long as the approach is effective to identify vulnerabilities in SCI
systems, and indirect SCI systems, as applicable.
While Rule 1001(a)(2)(iv) specifically identifies reviews and testing as means to identify
vulnerabilities pertaining to internal and external threats, physical hazards, and natural or
manmade disasters, it does not dictate the precise manner or frequency of reviews and testing,
and does not prohibit an SCI entity from determining that there are methods other than reviews
and testing that may be effective in identifying vulnerabilities. For example, reviews and testing
would each be one of the methods that an SCI entity could employ, and each SCI entity would be
able to determine which method(s) are most appropriate for each SCI system (or indirect SCI
system, as applicable) or particular functionality of a given system, as well as the frequency with
which such method(s) should be employed. 496 In addition, in response to commenters
advocating that SCI entities should focus on identifying structural vulnerabilities or

496

Rule 1001(a)(2)(iv) would also permit an SCI entity to engage personnel independent of
the team that designed and developed the systems in testing, or to employ a process audit
role, to comply with this requirement, as some commenters suggested. See supra notes
493-494 and accompanying text. Like other methods of review and testing, such
engagements could identify vulnerabilities in a number of ways, such as through
assessments of the SCI entity’s compliance with applicable standards, its risk
management and control framework, or its use of resources.
In response to the comment suggesting that process audits be conducted at least annually
for each SCI system, and more often for SCI systems with operational problems, a record
of non-compliance, or those being developed, tested, or operated by an inexperienced
staff, the Commission notes that Rule 1001(a)(2)(iv) does not specify the precise manner
or frequency of reviews and tests. Rather, Rule 1001(a)(2)(iv) provides flexibility to an
SCI entity in determining the precise manner and frequency of reviews and/or tests. For
example, an SCI entity could determine that, in order for its policies and procedures to be
reasonably designed, as required by Rule 1001(a), its policies and procedures should
provide that process audits be conducted at least annually for some SCI systems, and
more frequently for certain other SCI systems.

162

weaknesses, 497 an SCI entity may also find it useful to conduct reviews of its software and
systems architecture and design to assess whether they have flaws or dependencies that
constitute structural risks that could pose a threat to SCI systems’ operational capability. 498
Likewise, an inspection by an SCI entity of its physical premises may be a method of assessing
some of the vulnerabilities listed in the rule (such as physical hazards).
Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery
Proposed item (E) would have required an SCI entity to have business continuity and
disaster recovery plans that include maintaining backup and recovery capabilities sufficiently
resilient and geographically diverse to ensure next business day resumption of trading and twohour resumption of clearance and settlement services following a wide-scale disruption. The
Commission received significant comment on this aspect of the proposal, with several
commenters questioning or challenging the principle that securities market infrastructure
resilience is achieved by requiring both geographic diversity and specific recovery times for the
backup and recovery capabilities of all SCI entities. 499 Although several commenters were
supportive of the broad goals of the proposed requirement, 500 others maintained that, because the
national market system has built-in redundancies, the proposed geographic diversity and
resumption requirements need not apply to all SCI entities to ensure securities market

497

See supra note 492 and accompanying text.

498

As noted by one commenter, static analysis could be a technique SCI entities could
choose to utilize to help uncover structural weaknesses in software. See supra note 480
and accompanying text.

499

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 8; FIA PTG Letter at 4; FIF Letter at 3; Group One Letter at 2-3;
KCG Letter at 6-8, 11-14; FINRA Letter at 35-36; Angel Letter at 12; and ITG Letter at
15.

500

See Direct Edge Letter at 4; FINRA Letter at 35; ISE Letter at 2; and MSRB Letter at 10.

163

resilience. 501 Some of these commenters urged that the specific redundancy requirement implicit
in the proposed geographic diversity provision should apply to a more limited set of SCI
entities. 502 In addition, some commenters stated that proposed time frames were too
inflexible. 503
The Commission has carefully considered commenters’ views and is revising this
provision from the proposal to: (i) specify that the stated recovery timeframes in Regulation SCI
are goals, rather than inflexible requirements; 504 and (ii) provide that the stated two-hour
recovery goal applies to critical SCI systems generally. In addition, the Commission is adopting
the geographic diversity requirement, which does not specify any minimum distance for an SCI
entity’s backup and recovery facilities, as proposed. As explained below, the Commission

501

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 8; FIA PTG Letter at 4; FIF Letter at 3; Group One Letter at 2-3;
and KCG Letter at 6-8, 11-14. According to these commenters, because of the ease with
which market participants are able to shift their order flow when there is an issue at one
or more markets, the proposed requirements are burdensome and unnecessary. See also
Angel Letter at 12 (stating that, if an exchange experiences an issue, other exchanges
have more than enough capacity to handle the trading volume, and suggesting that it is
not necessary for each exchange to have totally redundant backup facilities if the market
network as a whole has sufficient capacity).

502

See, e.g., FIA PTG Letter at 4. See also supra note 53 and accompanying text.

503

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 13; and Joint SROs Letter at 17.

504

See Interagency Paper on Sound Practices to Strengthen the Resilience of the U.S.
Financial Systems, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 47638 (April 7, 2003), 68 FR
17809, 17812 (April 11, 2003) (“Interagency White Paper”), stating: “Recovery-time
objectives provide concrete goals to plan for and test against. They should not be
regarded as hard and fast deadlines that must be met in every emergency situation;” and
2003 Policy Statement on Business Continuity Planning for Trading Markets, Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 48545 (September 25, 2003), 68 FR 56656, 56658 (October 1,
2003) (“2003 BCP Policy Statement”), stating: “Consistent with the approach taken in
the Interagency Paper, the next-day resumption objective should provide a concrete goal
to plan for and test against. This should not be regarded as a hard and fast deadline that
must be met in every emergency situation.”

164

continues to believe that geographic diversity of physical facilities is an important component of
every SCI entity’s BC/DR plan.
Recovery Timeframes as Goals
Several commenters addressing proposed item (E) focused their comments specifically
on the proposed recovery timeframes. 505 A few commenters that are clearing agencies
specifically expressed concern about the proposed requirement for the two-hour resumption of
clearance and settlement services, urging that the two-hour standard be a goal rather than a
requirement. 506 One commenter noted that the “Interagency White Paper itself recognizes that
‘various external factors surrounding a disruption such as time of day, scope of disruption, and
status of critical infrastructure—particularly telecommunications can affect actual recovery
times,’ and concludes that ‘[r]ecovery-time objectives provide concrete goals to plan for and test
against…they should not be regarded as hard and fast deadlines that must be met in every
emergency situation.’” 507 Several commenters suggested that SCI entities generally be given

505

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 3, 13, 18; KCG Letter at 11-12; DTCC Letter at 15; OCC
Letter at 9-10; Omgeo Letter at 27-28; Angel Letter at 16-17; Direct Edge Letter at 4-5;
ISE Letter at 2-5; Joint SROs Letter at 16-17; FINRA Letter at 36; MSRB Letter at 10;
Tellefsen Letter at 6; and Group One Letter at 2.

506

See DTCC Letter at 15 (“[P]roposed Rule 1000(b)(l)(i)(E) has made what is currently a
target within the 2003 Interagency White Paper that clearing and settling services be
resumed within 2 hours of a disruption into a requirement that may not be attainable in all
circumstances….”); OCC Letter at 9-10 (“While a two-hour recovery time objective is a
laudable goal…current guidelines remain appropriate to recover and resume clearing and
settlement activities within the business day on which the disruption occurs, with the
overall aspiration of achieving recovery and resumption within two hours”); and Omgeo
Letter at 27-28 (“While Omgeo agrees that SCI entities should be required to rapidly
recover from a wide-scale disruption and resume operations to avoid disrupting the
critical markets beyond a single business day, it is unreasonable to require these
operations to be resumed within two hours.”).

507

See Omgeo Letter at 27-28.

165

more discretion to decide when to resume trading following a wide-scale disruption. 508 Other
commenters stated more broadly that the proposed recovery timeframes were too rigid and
inconsistent with the Interagency White Paper and the 2003 BCP Policy Statement. 509 Other
commenters similarly noted that it might be in the public interest and consistent with the
protection of investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets for the markets to remain
closed following a wide-scale disruption. 510
In response to comments that the proposed two-hour recovery time frame was too
inflexible, 511 the Commission is eliminating the proposed requirement that an SCI entity must
“ensure” next business day resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of clearance and
settlement services following a wide-scale disruption. The Commission acknowledges that a
hard and fast resumption timeframe may not be achievable in each and every case, given the
variety of disruptions that potentially could arise and pose challenges even for well-designed
business continuity and disaster recovery. For this reason, the Commission is revising the
proposed requirement by replacing it with a requirement that an SCI entity have policies and
procedures that include “business continuity and disaster recovery plans that include maintaining

508

See Angel Letter at 16-17; Direct Edge Letter at 4-5; ISE Letter at 2; Joint SROs Letter at
16-17; and Group One Letter at 2.

509

See SIFMA Letter at 13 (noting that the Interagency White Paper recommends that “core
clearing and settlement organizations develop the capacity to recover and resume clearing
and settlement activities within the business day on which the disruption occurs with the
overall goal of achieving recovery and resumption within two hours after an event.” See
also Joint SROs Letter at 17 (noting that the 2003 BCP Policy Statement, supra note 504,
provides that rapid recovery should not be regarded as a hard and fast deadline that must
be met in every emergency situation).

510

See, e.g., Angel Letter at 16-17; Direct Edge Letter at 4-5, 9; ISE Letter at 2-5; and Joint
SROs Letter at 16-17.

511

See supra notes 506-510 and accompanying text.

166

backup and recovery capabilities sufficiently resilient and geographically diverse and that are
reasonably designed to achieve next business day resumption of trading and two-hour
resumption of critical SCI systems following a wide-scale disruption.” Replacement of the
phrase “to ensure” with the phrase “reasonably designed to achieve” means that Regulation
SCI’s enumerated recovery timeframes are concrete goals, consistent with the Interagency White
Paper and 2003 BCP Policy Statement. 512 As such, the rule’s specified recovery timeframes are
the standards against which the reasonableness of business continuity and disaster recovery
(“BC/DR”) plans will be assessed by the Commission and its inspection staff. Moreover, as
recovery goals, rather than hard and fast deadlines, the enumerated time frames in the rule will
continue to allow for SCI entities to account for the specific facts and circumstances that arise in
a given scenario to determine whether it is appropriate to resume a system’s operation following
a wide-scale disruption.
Recovery Timeframe Distinctions
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission solicited comment on whether the proposed next
business day resumption of trading following a wide-scale disruption and proposed two-hour
resumption of clearance and settlement services following a wide-scale disruption were
appropriate. 513 The Commission also solicited comment on whether it should consider revising
the proposed next business day resumption requirement for trading to a shorter period for certain
entities that play a significant role within the securities markets. 514 One commenter stated that it
agreed with imposing more stringent requirements for resumption of clearance and settlement
512

See Interagency White Paper, supra note 504, at 17812-13, and the 2003 BCP Policy
Statement, supra note 504, at 56658.

513

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18112, question 73.

514

See id. at 18112, question 76.

167

services than for trading services following a wide-scale disruption. 515 However, this commenter
also urged more broadly that the Commission take into account the criticality of the functions
performed by an SCI entity to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets in order to tailor the
obligations of the rule more effectively. 516 According to this commenter, “[n]otification and
remediation requirements…should be tailored to the time sensitivity of each of the functions
performed, not applied uniformly across all activities of an SCI entity.” This commenter
identified “highly critical functions” as including the primary listing exchanges, trading of
securities on an exclusive basis, securities information processors, clearance and settlement
agencies, distribution of unique post-trade transparency information, and real-time market
surveillance,” and urged the Commission to “leverage the best practices of the Interagency White
Paper, and expand them to include the [highly] critical functions….” 517 Other commenters also
urged the Commission to consider the criticality of SCI systems functionality and tailor

515

See SIFMA Letter at 12-13. Specifically, this commenter noted that the Interagency
White Paper, supra note 504, distinguishes between “core clearing and settlement
organizations” and firms that play “significant roles in the financial markets” and
recommended that the Commission continue to distinguish between SCI entities that are
responsible for the highly critical function of centralized counterparties (e.g., clearing
agencies registered with the Commission) and SCI entities that are not.

516

See SIFMA Letter at 4.

517

See id. at 4, 18. SIFMA also listed the distribution of unique post-trade transparency
information and real-time market surveillance as highly critical functions. While such
systems are not specifically identified in the first prong of the definition of critical SCI
systems (as are SCI systems that directly support functionality relating to: (1) clearance
and settlement systems of clearing agencies; (2) openings, reopenings, and closings on
the primary listing market; (3) trading halts; (4) initial public offerings; (5) the provision
of consolidated market data; or (6) exclusively-listed securities), the Commission notes
that systems that provide functionality to the securities markets for which the availability
of alternatives is significantly limited or nonexistent and without which there would be a
material impact on fair and orderly markets are considered critical SCI systems under its
second prong. See supra Section IV.A.2.c (discussing the definition of “critical SCI
systems”).

168

requirements accordingly. 518 One commenter noted that the August 2013 Nasdaq SIP outage
revealed each of SIAC and Nasdaq (in their roles as plan processors) as a potential “single point
of failure” in the national market system, and specifically urged improved backup capabilities for
these systems. 519 Another commenter, in the context of questioning the need for all markets to
have geographically diverse backups, acknowledged that specific redundancy might be
appropriate in certain areas, such as where an instrument is traded only on one exchange or in the
case of a primary market during the open and closing periods of the market. 520
The Commission has carefully considered these comments and believes they support
revising the proposed rule to provide that the two-hour recovery goal specified in the adopted
rule, as the standard against which BC/DR plans are to be assessed, should apply not only to
“clearance and settlement services,” but more generally to the functions performed by critical
SCI systems. Given that the securities markets are dependent upon the reliable operation of
critical SCI systems, the Commission believes it is reasonable to distinguish the two-hour and
next-business day recovery goals in a manner consistent with other provisions of adopted
Regulation SCI: specifically, to have the shorter recovery goal apply to critical SCI systems, and
518

See, e.g., KCG Letter at 8, 13-14 (suggesting that proposed item (E) apply only to SCI
entities that perform critical, unique functions in the market), and at 5 (stating “when
critical services are provided, additional heightened regulatory requirements, as proposed
in Regulation SCI, may be appropriate”). See also UBS Letter at 3 (urging the
Commission to take into consideration the difference between “interruptions of activities
that hold significant implications for the National Market System” and “low criticality
activities [that] are much more manageable and localized in impact...because market
participants are not directly touched or are equipped to quickly route around the
problem”). According to this commenter, activities that hold such significant
implications would include: “disruption at primary exchange during [the] open/close, [a]
problem with protected quote data, [an] outage at listing exchange during [an] IPO, [and]
SIP data disruptions.”

519

See Angel Letter 2 at 3-4.

520

See FIA PTG Letter at 4.

169

the longer recovery goal apply to resumption of trading by non-critical SCI systems. The
Commission also notes that, because the proposed recovery timeframes are being adopted as
concrete goals that the policies and procedures must be reasonably designed to achieve, rather
than hard and fast requirements, the adopted approach is somewhat more flexible than that
proposed. Accordingly, adopted Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) holds BC/DR plans for critical SCI systems
(as defined in Rule 1000) to a higher standard than BC/DR plans for resumption of trading
operations more generally. Specifically, an SCI entity responsible for a given critical SCI system
will be expected to design BC/DR plans that contemplate resumption of critical SCI system
functionality to meet a recovery goal of two hours or less. The Commission believes that this
approach is consistent with the broader risk-based approach urged by commenters. 521 The
Commission also believes that its approach to holding critical SCI systems to stricter resiliency
standards than other systems is an appropriate measure that responds not only to comments
received, but also to recent events highlighting the effects of malfunctions in critical SCI
systems. 522
Two commenters requested clarification on the expectations for resumption of SCI
systems that are not related to trading, clearance, or settlement. 523 In response to this comment,
the Commission notes that the adopted definition of SCI systems has been refined from the
proposed definition of SCI systems and that all SCI systems could be considered to be “related

521

See supra notes 53-57 and accompanying text (summarizing commenters’
recommendations with regard to adopting a risk-based approach generally).

522

See supra Section II.B (discussing recent systems issues, including a systems problem
that resulted in certain exclusively-listed securities being unable to trade for over three
hours, and a systems problem affecting the SIP that halted trading in all Nasdaq-listed
securities for more than three hours).

523

See FINRA Letter at 36; and MSRB Letter at 10.

170

to” trading. However, systems that directly support market regulation and/or market surveillance
will not be held to the resumption goals of Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) (unless they are critical SCI
systems) because the Commission believes that the resumption of trading and critical SCI
systems could occur following a wide-scale disruption without the immediate availability of
market regulation and/or market surveillance systems (unless they are critical SCI systems).
However, systems that directly support trading, order routing, and market data would be subject
to the next-business day resumption goal, unless they are also critical SCI systems, in which case
they would be subject to the two-hour resumption goal.
One commenter questioned what the expectations are with respect to next-day
resumption if an SCI entity loses functionality towards the end of the trading day. 524 In response
to this comment, the Commission notes that neither the next-business day resumption of trading
goal nor the two-hour recovery goal for critical SCI systems is dependent on the time of day that
the loss of functionality occurs. Consistent with the Interagency White Paper and 2003 BCP
Policy Statement, however, the Commission acknowledges that the time of day of a disruption
can affect actual recovery times. 525 The Commission believes it is important, particularly with
respect to clearing agencies, that SCI entities endeavor to take all steps necessary to effectuate
end of day settlement.
Geographic Diversity to Ensure Resilience

524

See Tellefsen Letter at 6.

525

See Interagency White Paper, supra note 504, at 17812, and the 2003 BCP Policy
Statement, supra note 504, at 56658.

171

Several commenters addressing proposed item (E) expressed concern about the proposed
geographic diversity requirement. 526 Some commenters cited a reluctance on the part of SCI
entity members or participants to incur the cost or assume the risk of connecting to a backup site
that would only be used infrequently. 527 In addition, some commenters cited concerns, such as
challenges to market makers generating quotes, if a backup site did not have the same low
latency as the primary site. 528 One of these commenter suggested that allowing other fully
operational exchanges to fill in and perform the duties of an exchange experiencing an outage
would offer the advantages of continued operation on tested systems and the introduction of
fewer variables. 529 Another of these commenters argued that, in many respects, the goal of
resilient and redundant markets is already in place due to the existence of multiple competing
and interconnected venues, operating as a collective system under Regulation NMS. 530
One commenter agreed that it is a best business practice for a market to have backup
disaster recovery facilities and robust BC/DR plans, but stated that “significant geographic
diversity” should not be an absolute requirement,” because a wide-scale disruption in New York
or Chicago would make next day resumption difficult, even with a geographically diverse
backup. 531 This commenter noted that the more remote the backup, the more difficult it would
be to staff such a facility, and even more so in a surprise disaster, unless the backup was fully

526

See, e.g., KCG Letter at 13; FIA PTG Letter at 3-4; Group One Letter at 2-3; ISE Letter
at 2-5; BIDS Letter at 8; and ITG Letter at 15.

527

See KCG Letter at 13; FIA PTG Letter at 3-4; and Group One Letter at 2-3.

528

See KCG Letter at 13; and FIA PTG Letter at 3-4.

529

See Group One Letter at 2-3.

530

See FIA PTG Letter at 4. See also Angel 2 Letter at 3.

531

See ISE Letter at 2-5.

172

staffed at all times. 532 Several commenters also argued that SCI entities that are ATSs are less
critical to market stability, and therefore should be subject to less stringent geographic diversity
and recovery requirements. 533 One commenter suggested eliminating the reference to
“geographic diversity” in favor of requiring “comprehensive business continuity and disaster
recovery plans with recovery time objectives of the next business day for trading and two hours
for clearance and settlement,” and emphasizing as guidance that geographic diversity of physical
facilities would be an expected component of any such plan. 534
The Commission has carefully considered commenters’ views on the proposed
geographic diversity requirement and continues to believe that geographic diversity of physical
facilities is an important component of every SCI entity’s BC/DR plan. 535 The Commission
believes that challenges to recovery are increased when a disruption impacts a broad geographic
area, and therefore that an SCI entity’s arrangements to assure resilience in the event of a widescale disruption cannot reliably be achieved without geographic diversity of its BC/DR
resources. 536 The Commission does not agree with commenters who argued that the existence of

532

See id.

533

See BIDS Letter at 8; FIA PTG Letter at 4; ITG Letter at 15; and KCG Letter at 8, 13.
These commenters believed that the proposed geographic diversity requirements are
burdensome and unnecessary because of the ease with which market participants are able
to shift their order flow when there is an issue at one or more markets. In addition, two
commenters argued that, because ATSs are subject to FINRA regulations with respect to
BC/DR plans, further regulation would be redundant and unnecessary. See ITG Letter at
15; and OTC Markets Letter at 9.

534

See Direct Edge Letter at 4.

535

The Commission’s view is consistent with the 2003 BCP Policy Statement. See 2003
BCP Policy Statement, supra note 504, at 56658. See also infra Section VI.C.2.b
(discussing the benefits of geographic diversity).

536

See, e.g., 2003 BCP Policy Statement, supra note 504, at 56657 (stating that a critical
“lesson learned” from the events of September 11, 2001 is the need for more rigorous
173

multiple competing and interconnected venues operating as a collective system under Regulation
NMS obviates the need for geographic diversity at the individual SCI entity level. 537 For
example, a wide-scale disruption, such as a natural disaster or man-made attack, could affect a
large number of SCI entities, and absent individual SCI entity responsibility for maintaining
geographic diversity, there could be a greater likelihood that a critical mass of SCI entities would
not be operational, so that the continued maintenance of fair and orderly markets could be
impacted. The Commission notes that some of the practical difficulties commenters cited as the
basis for objecting to a backup site requirement, such as the cost and operational risk of
maintaining a redundant connection to an SCI entity backup facility that would be used
infrequently, are concerns raised on behalf of SCI entity members and participants. 538 In
response to commenters who expressed concern regarding the cost for members or participants
to co-locate their systems at backup sites to replicate the speed and efficiency of the primary site,
the Commission emphasizes that adopted Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) does not require an SCI entity to
require members or participants to use the backup facility in the same way it uses the primary
facility. Rather, the assessment of the effectiveness of a BC/DR plan that includes
geographically diverse backup facilities is whether it is reasonably designed to achieve next
business day resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of critical SCI systems following a
wide-scale disruption.

business continuity planning in the financial sector to address problems of wider
geographic scope and longer duration than those previously addressed).
537

See supra notes 530 and 533 and accompanying text.

538

See infra Section IV.B.6 (discussing SCI entity BC/DR testing requirements for members
or participants).

174

In response to comments that geographic diversity should be encouraged but not required
for all SCI entities, the Commission does not believe that it would be appropriate to eliminate the
proposed requirement that SCI entities maintain geographically diverse backup and recovery
capabilities (which the Commission understands many SCI entities already have) because, as
stated, absent individual SCI entity responsibility for maintaining geographic diversity, there
could be a greater likelihood that a critical mass of SCI entities would not be operational
following a wide-scale disruption. In response to comment that ATSs are less critical to market
stability, and therefore should be subject to less stringent geographic diversity and recovery
requirements, the Commission notes that ATSs that do not have critical SCI systems will be
subject to less stringent geographic diversity and recovery requirements than SCI entities that
do. 539 However, because the Commission believes that SCI ATSs have the potential to
significantly impact investors, the overall market, and the trading of individual securities as a
result of an SCI event, the Commission believes that these entities are appropriate for inclusion
in the definition of SCI entity and for the application of the geographic diversity requirement. 540

539

In addition, in response to commenters who argued that, because ATSs are subject to
FINRA regulations with respect to BC/DR plans further regulation would be redundant
and unnecessary (see supra note 533), the Commission notes that FINRA Rule 4370
generally requires that a member maintain a written continuity plan identifying
procedures relating to an emergency or significant business disruption. Unlike
Regulation SCI, however, the FINRA rule does not include the requirement that the
business continuity and disaster recovery plans be reasonably designed to achieve next
business day resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of critical SCI systems
following a wide-scale disruption, nor does it require the functional and performance
testing and coordination of industry or sector-testing of such plans, which the
Commission believes to be instrumental in achieving the goals of Regulation SCI with
respect to SCI entities. See also supra note 115.

540

See supra notes 107-109 and accompanying text.

175

Like the proposed rule, the adopted rule does not specify any particular minimum
distance or geographic location that would be necessary to achieve geographic diversity. 541
However, as stated in the SCI Proposal, the Commission continues to believe that backup sites
should not rely on the same infrastructure components, such as for transportation,
telecommunications, water supply, and electric power. 542 The Commission also continues to
believe that an SCI entity should have a reasonable degree of flexibility to determine the precise
nature and location of its backup site depending on the particular vulnerabilities associated with
those sites, and the nature, size, technology, business model, and other aspects of its business.” 543
In response to comment that a geographically diverse backup facility is impractical if key
personnel do not live sufficiently close to the backup facility, the Commission notes that adopted
Regulation SCI does not require an SCI entity to have a geographically diverse backup facility so
distant from the primary facility that the SCI entity may not rely primarily on the same labor
pool to staff both facilities if it believed it to be appropriate. 544 Given that the Commission did
not propose a specified minimum distance to achieve geographic diversity, the Commission
believes that the geographic diversity requirement is reasonable and appropriate for all SCI
entities. The geographic diversity requirement is therefore adopted as proposed.

541

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18108, n. 182 and accompanying text.

542

See id.

543

See id.

544

An SCI entity with critical SCI systems subject to a two-hour recovery goal may,
however, find it prudent to establish back-up facilities a significant distance away from
their primary sites, or otherwise address the risk that a wide-scale disruption could impact
either or both of the sites and their labor pool. See Interagency White Paper, supra note
504, at 17813.

176

In sum, the Commission believes that adopted Rule 1001(a)(2)(v), requiring an SCI entity
to have business continuity and disaster recovery plans that include maintaining backup and
recovery capabilities sufficiently resilient and geographically diverse and that are reasonably
designed to achieve next business day resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of critical
SCI systems following a wide-scale disruption, is consistent with, and builds upon, both the
Interagency White Paper and the 2003 BCP Policy Statement by applying their principles to SCI
entities in today’s trading environment, one with a heavy reliance on technological infrastructure.
The Commission believes that individual SCI entity resilience is fundamental to achieving the
goal of improving U.S. securities market infrastructure resilience.
Robust Standards for Market Data
Proposed item (F), requiring an SCI entity to have standards that result in systems being
designed, developed, tested, maintained, operated, and surveilled in a manner that facilitates the
successful collection, processing, and dissemination of market data, received little comment.
One commenter supported the proposed requirement, subject to further clarification about what
constitutes market data. 545 Another commenter believed that this proposed requirement is
redundant because SROs and other market participants are already subject to substantial
requirements for market data. 546
While consolidated market data is collected and distributed pursuant to a variety of
Exchange Act rules and joint industry plans, 547 the Commission does not believe that existing

545

See MSRB Letter at 8.

546

See Angel Letter at 19.

547

See, e.g., Rules 601-604 of Regulation NMS and Rule 301(b)(3) of Regulation ATS. See
also supra Section IV.A.1.c (discussing definition of plan processor) and Concept Release
177

requirements have the same focus on ensuring the operational capability of the systems for
collecting, processing, and disseminating market data. Thus, the Commission believes that this
provision, while consistent with existing rules, acts as a complement to such requirements and is
not redundant. Further, as explained above, the term “market data” is not intended to include
only consolidated market data, but proprietary market data as well and, as such, SCI systems
directly supporting proprietary market data or consolidated market data are subject to the
requirements of item (F). As stated in the SCI Proposal, the Commission believes that the
accurate, timely, and efficient processing of data is important to the proper functioning of the
securities markets. The Commission continues to believe that it is important that each SCI
entity’s market data systems are reasonably designed to maintain market integrity and that the
proposed requirement would facilitate that goal. 548 This element, requiring that an SCI entity’s
policies and procedures include standards that result in systems being designed, developed,
tested, maintained, operated, and surveilled in a manner that facilitates the successful collection,
processing, and dissemination of market data, is adopted as proposed, as Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi).
Monitoring
The Commission is adopting an additional provision, designated as Rule 1001(a)(2)(vii),
that requires an SCI entity’s policies and procedures to provide for monitoring of SCI systems,
and, for purposes of security standards, indirect SCI systems, to identify potential SCI events.
Several commenters argued that Regulation SCI should allow entities to adopt and follow
escalation procedures instead of providing that obligations under Regulation SCI are triggered by

on Equity Market Structure, supra note 4, at 3600 (discussing various rules and
requirements relating to consolidated market data).
548

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18108.

178

one employee’s awareness of a systems issue. 549 The Commission is modifying Regulation SCI
in three respects in response to these comments: revising the definition of responsible SCI
personnel to focus on senior managers; requiring that an SCI entity have policies and procedures
to identify, designate, and escalate potential SCI events to responsible SCI personnel; and
explicitly requiring policies and procedures for monitoring. 550 The requirement that an SCI
entity have policies and procedures to provide for monitoring of SCI systems and, for purposes
of security standards, indirect SCI systems, is added to make explicit that escalation of a systems
problem should occur not only if a systems problem is identified by chance, but rather that an
SCI entity should have a monitoring process in place so that systems problems are able to be
identified as a matter of standard operations and pursuant to parameters reasonably established
by the SCI entity. In addition, the Commission believes that the reliability of escalation of
potential SCI events to designated responsible SCI personnel for determination as to whether
they are, in fact, SCI events is likely to be more effective when it occurs in connection with
established procedures for monitoring of SCI systems and indirect SCI systems and pursuant to a
process for the communication of systems problems by those who are not responsible SCI
personnel to those who are. The Commission notes that several commenters discussed the role
that technology staff play in monitoring and identifying potential systems problems and
escalating issues up the chain of command to management as well as legal and/or compliance
personnel. Although systems monitoring may already be routine in many SCI entities, there are

549

See, e.g., OCC Letter at 12; FINRA Letter at 25-26; Omgeo Letter at 13; FIF Letter at 5;
and NYSE Letter at 19-20. See also infra notes 758-761 and accompanying text
(discussing comments on the proposed “becomes aware” standard).

550

See infra Section IV.B.3.a (discussing the Commission’s determination to further focus
the definition of “responsible SCI personnel”).

179

expected benefits of monitoring and thus it is appropriate to require an SCI entity’s policies and
procedures to provide for monitoring of SCI systems, and, for purposes of security standards,
indirect SCI systems, to identify potential SCI events. The Commission believes that monitoring
in tandem with escalation to responsible SCI personnel is an appropriate approach to ensuring
SCI compliance. As noted, the requirement that an SCI entity have policies and procedures for
monitoring provides an SCI entity with flexibility to establish parameters that define the types of
systems problems to which technology personnel should be alert, as well as the frequency and
duration of monitoring. The Commission also believes this requirement is consistent with a riskbased approach, and that an SCI entity’s policies and procedures for monitoring may be tailored
to the relative criticality of SCI systems, with critical SCI systems likely to be subject to
relatively more rigorous policies and procedures for monitoring than other SCI systems.
iii.

Policies and Procedures Consistent with “Current SCI
Industry Standards” – Rule 1001(a)(4)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(1)(ii) stated that an SCI entity’s policies and procedures would be
deemed to be reasonably designed if they are consistent with “current SCI industry standards,”
such as those listed on proposed Table A. “Current SCI industry standards” were not limited to
those listed on proposed Table A, but were proposed to be required to be: (A) comprised of
information technology practices that are widely available for free to information technology
professionals in the financial sector; and (B) issued by an authoritative body that is a U.S.
governmental entity or agency, association of U.S. governmental entities or agencies, or widely
recognized organization. The rule further stated that “compliance with such current SCI industry
standards…shall not be the exclusive means to comply with the requirements of paragraph
(b)(1).”
The goal of proposed Rule 1000(b)(1)(ii) was to provide guidance to SCI entities on
180

policies and procedures that would meet the articulated standard of being “reasonably designed
to ensure that their systems have levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and
security, adequate to maintain their operational capability and promote the maintenance of fair
and orderly markets.” The proposal sought to provide this guidance by identifying example
information technology publications describing processes, guidelines, frameworks, and/or
standards that SCI entities could elect to look to in developing its policies and procedures.
Proposed Table A set forth an example of one set of technology publications that the
Commission preliminarily believed was an appropriate set of reference documents. The SCI
Proposal acknowledged that “current SCI industry standards” would not be limited to the
publications identified on proposed Table A. As such, an SCI entity’s choice of a current SCI
industry standard in a given domain or subcategory thereof could appropriately be different from
those contained in the publications identified in proposed Table A. 551 Many commenters,
however, objected to the proposed objective criteria for reference publications, and/or one or
more of the specific publications listed on proposed Table A. The Commission has carefully
considered commenters’ views and is adopting Rule 1000(b)(1)(ii), renumbered as Rule
1001(a)(4), with certain modifications as described below.
Criteria for Identifying SCI Industry Standards: Comments Received and Commission Response
Some commenters disagreed with the Commission’s proposal to require SCI industry
standards to be “comprised of information technology practices that are widely available for free
to information technology professionals in the financial sector.” Several commenters argued that

551

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18109.

181

there were significant disadvantages to requiring that standards be available free of charge. 552
One of these commenters stated that requiring standards to be available for free “may encourage
SCI entities to use standards that may be outdated when more suitable standards may be
available and would be more appropriate.” 553 Another of these commenters stated that “the cost
or lack thereof of a technology standard or standard framework has no bearing on the quality or
appropriateness of such standard or framework and bears no significance to the maintenance of
fair and orderly markets.” 554
Two standard setting organizations commented regarding the use of consensus standards,
citing OMB Circular No. A-119, which directs agencies to use voluntary consensus standards
(i.e., standards developed by professional standards organizations), and urged the Commission to
eliminate the requirement that SCI industry standards be “available for free.” 555 Another
commenter similarly urged that it was important for SCI entities to use publications generated by
professional organizations that regularly update their standards and employ open processes for
gathering industry input. 556
The Commission agrees that the cost or lack thereof of a technology standard or standard
framework has no bearing on the quality or appropriateness of such standard, and also that SCI
entities should be encouraged to use appropriate standards developed by professional
552

See ANSI Letter at 1; DTCC Letter at 15; OCC Letter at 9; Omgeo Letter at 33-34; and
X9 Letter at 1.

553

See OCC Letter at 9.

554

See Omgeo Letter at 33 (noting also that the proposed criteria would eliminate
appropriate standards such ITIL and ISO 27000).

555

See ANSI Letter at 1; and X9 Letter at 1.

556

See CISQ2 Letter at 6. See also Angel Letter at 8 (suggesting that the proposed criteria
could potentially result in the creation of race-to-the-bottom standards organizations that
establish lax standards).

182

organizations that regularly update their standards and employ open processes for gathering
industry input. While the Commission did not propose to require that particular standards be
used, in response to comment, the Commission is adopting Rule 1001(a)(4) without the criterion
in the SCI Proposal that a technology standard be available free of charge. The other criteria are
adopted as proposed. Thus, to qualify as an “SCI industry standard,” a publication must be
comprised of information technology practices that are widely available to information
technology professionals in the financial sector and issued by an authoritative body that is a U.S.
governmental entity or agency, association of U.S. governmental entities or agencies, or widely
recognized organization. The Commission believes that this criterion is sufficiently flexible to
include technology practices issued by professional organizations, including the professional
organizations referenced by commenters. 557
Proposed Table A: Comments Received
The SCI Proposal stated that written policies and procedures that are consistent with the
relevant examples of SCI industry standards contained in the publications identified in Table A
would be deemed to be “reasonably designed” for purposes of proposed Rule 1000(b)(1). 558
Proposed Table A listed publications covering nine inspection areas, or “domains,” that
Commission staff historically has evaluated under the ARP Inspection Program. 559

557

See infra notes 583-601 and accompanying text. The Commission expresses no view,
however, on any particular publication that is not specifically identified in infra notes
584-601, or standards that remain in development (e.g., a standard being drafted by AT
9000) (see infra note 601 and accompanying text).

558

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18109.

559

See id.

183

Proposed Table A elicited significant and varied comment. Some commenters objected
generally to the Table A framework. 560 Others objected more specifically to Table A’s proposed
content, 561 and some commenters objected to Table A as a premature attempt to establish
consensus on SCI industry standards where consensus has not yet emerged. 562
Table A Framework and Process
One group of commenters suggested that, in lieu of the publications identified in Table A,
the Commission should characterize policies and procedures as reasonably designed if they
comply with “generally accepted standards.” 563 Another commenter similarly suggested that
the Commission replace the proposed rule’s reference to “current SCI industry standards” with
the phrase “generally accepted technology principles,” and delete Table A and the proposed
Table A criteria. 564 These commenters viewed proposed Table A as flawed in concept. 565
Specifically, one of these commenters expressed concern that the standards set forth in Table A
might not keep pace with a constantly evolving technological landscape and that, despite this

560

See, e.g., Angel Letter at 8-9; BATS Letter at 6-7; BIDS Letter at 7; Direct Edge Letter at
2; Joint SROs Letter at 4; MSRB Letter at 11-12; and NYSE Letter at 20-21.

561

See, e.g., Angel Letter at 8-9; BATS Letter at 6-7; FIF Letter at 3-4; ISE Letter at 11-12;
CAST Letter at 10; MSRB Letter at 11-12; DTCC Letter at 15; FINRA Letter at 31;
Omgeo Letter at 33; CISQ Letter at 1-2; OCC Letter at 9; Lauer Letter at 5-7; BIDS
Letter at 7; and Liquidnet Letter at 3-4.

562

See, e.g., FIF Letter at 3-4; Liquidnet Letter at 3-4; UBS Letter at 7; and ISE Letter at 1112.

563

See Joint SROs Letter at 4.

564

See NYSE Letter at 20-21.

565

See Joint SROs Letter at 4; and NYSE Letter at 20.

184

evolution, Commission staff might take a checklist approach to its review of policies and
procedures, which would result in unintended consequences. 566
The other commenter stated that it was more common, and more appropriate in any
industry that relies heavily on technology, for an entity to review a variety of different standards
for frameworks or best practices, and then adopt a derivative of multiple standards, customizing
them for the systems at issue. 567 According to this commenter, SCI entities would be unlikely to
comply with all aspects of any particular standard in Table A at any particular time, thereby
“obviating its usefulness.” 568
Other commenters argued that the Table A concept was flawed because Table A would
always be on the verge of being outdated. For example, one commenter characterized the
proposed Table A publications as “soon-to-be outdated” and stated that it is crucial that SCI
entity policies and procedures be “forward-looking” and able to respond to future threats. 569
Another commenter stated that the proposed process for updating Table A 570 would not be

566

See Joint SROs Letter at 4. Other commenters similarly expressed concern that SCI
entities would closely adhere to the publications listed in Table A (even though the SCI
Proposal specified that such adherence would not be the exclusive means to comply with
the requirements of proposed Rule 1000(b)(1)), rather than take advantage of the
flexibility built into the proposed rule out of concern that if they did not, they would
expose themselves to potential regulatory action for failure to comply with Regulation
SCI. See, e.g., MSRB Letter at 11; Angel Letter at 8; BATS Letter at 6; and NYSE
Letter at 20-21.

567

See NYSE Letter at 20.

568

See id.

569

See id. See also ISE Letter at 10 (stating that the standards listed in Table A are not the
most current or appropriate standards). See also infra notes 577-578 and accompanying
text.

570

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission stated that it “preliminarily believes that, following
its initial identification of one set of SCI industry standards…it would be appropriate for
Commission staff, from time to time, to issue notices to update the list of previously
185

sufficiently nimble to assure that SCI entities adhere to the best possible then-current standards,
and suggested that the Commission defer to the expertise of the organizations that have
established the listed standards and rely on the updates provided by these organizations. 571
Another commenter stated that any “hard coded” solutions are likely to become obsolete very
quickly. 572
After careful consideration of these comments, the Commission acknowledges that the
proposed framework for identifying and updating publications on Table A may not be
sufficiently nimble to assure that its list of publications does not become obsolete as technology
and standards change. The Commission agrees that, in an industry that relies heavily on
technologies that are constantly evolving, the prescription of hard-coded solutions that may
become quickly outdated is not the better approach. However, because several commenters
stated that there is currently a lack of consensus on what constitutes generally accepted standards
or principles in the securities industry, 573 the Commission continues to believe that there is value
in identifying example publications for SCI entities to consider looking to in establishing policies
and procedures that are consistent with “current SCI industry standards.” 574

identified set of SCI industry standards after receiving appropriate input from interested
persons….However, until such time as Commission staff were to update the identified set
of SCI industry standards, the then-current set of SCI industry standards would be the
[relevant] standards….” Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18111.
571

See MSRB Letter at 11-12.

572

See Direct Edge Letter at 2.

573

See supra note 633 and accompanying text.

574

See Rule 1001(a)(4), which states: “For purposes of [complying with Rule 1001(a)],
such policies and procedures shall be deemed to be reasonably designed if they are
consistent with current SCI industry standards, which shall be comprised of information
technology practices that are widely available to information technology professionals in
the financial sector and issued by an authoritative body that is a U.S. governmental entity
186

After considering the potential disadvantages of “hard-coding” Table A in a Commission
release, and the potential benefits of providing further guidance to SCI entities on the meaning of
“current SCI industry standards,” the Commission has determined that, rather than the
Commission issuing Table A in this release, Commission staff should issue guidance to assist
SCI entities in developing policies and procedures consistent with “current SCI industry
standards” in a manner that is consistent with the Commission’s response to comments received
on proposed Table A, as discussed in this Section IV.B.1.b.iii, and periodically update such
guidance as appropriate. The Commission believes that guidance issued by the Commission
staff will have the advantage of easier updating and allow for emerging consensus on standards
more focused on the securities industry. Thus, concurrent with the Commission’s adoption of
Regulation SCI, Commission staff is issuing guidance to SCI entities on developing policies and
procedures consistent with “current SCI industry standards.” 575
Table A Publications
Many commenters who did not urge elimination of Table A altogether addressed the
content of proposed Table A. Those commenters did not express opposition to the identification
of certain inspection areas or domains on proposed Table A, but some commenters identified
issues with specific publications listed on Table A. 576 Specifically, two commenters stated that

or agency, association of U.S. governmental entities or agencies, or widely recognized
organization. Compliance with such current SCI industry standards, however, shall not
be the exclusive means to comply with [Rule 1001(a)].”
575

Staff Guidance on Current SCI Industry Standards will be available on the Commission’s
website at: www.sec.gov.

576

See, e.g., Angel Letter at 9; BATS Letter at 6-7; FIF Letter at 3-4; and ISE Letter at 10.

187

the NIST publication listed for the Systems Development Methodology domain was outdated. 577
One of these commenters objected to this publication as reflecting a burdensome staged process
to software development that favors the “waterfall methodology” over “agile” software
development, which generally uses more “nimble processes” and is more typical in the financial
services industry today. 578 Another commenter noted that this publication had both strengths and
weaknesses. 579 Two commenters objected to the FFIEC’s Operations IT Examination Handbook
in the capacity planning domain as too generic. 580 One commenter objected to the inclusion of
FFIEC’s Audit IT Examination Handbook. 581 Another commenter stated more broadly that the
proposed Table A publications focus too heavily on firm-level risks and do not take into account
the technological and economic stability of the U.S. market as a whole. 582
In addition, several commenters suggested specific additions to the proposed list of
publications on Table A. 583 For example, more than one commenter suggested the following

577

See BATS Letter at 6; and ISE Letter at 10 (objecting to the inclusion of NIST Security
Considerations in the System Development Life Cycle (Special Publication 800-64 Rev.
2) as a suitable “current SCI industry standard” in the systems development methodology
domain).

578

See BATS Letter at 6-7.

579

See CISQ2 Letter at 4-5 (stating that NIST Special Publication 800‐64, Rev. 2 and any
derivative standard should “be reviewed and if necessary revised by a panel of industry
practitioners and technical experts to balance the requirement for rigor with the amount
of practices and documentation specified in the standard”).

580

See ISE Letter at 10; and FIF Letter at 3-4 (both described this publication as setting forth
a process for conducting capacity planning).

581

See ISE Letter at 10.

582

See Angel Letter at 9.

583

See, e.g., CAST Letter; ISE Letter; MSRB Letter; DTCC Letter; FINRA Letter; Omgeo
Letter; CISQ2 Letter; OCC Letter; BIDS Letter; Liquidnet Letter; and X9 Letter.

188

standards as appropriate for inclusion on Table A: COBIT/ISACA; 584 ISO-27000; 585 ISO
25000; 586 and NFPA-1600. 587 Other standards or publications mentioned by commenters as
useful, particularly in the area of software quality or software security, include the CISQ
Software Quality Specification, 588 the Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI)
framework, 589 “SANS 20 Critical Security Controls,” 590 “CWE/SANS Top 25 Most Dangerous
Software Errors,” 591 the Open Source Security Testing Methodology Manual (OSSTMM), 592 the

584

See CAST Letter at 10; ISE Letter at 11; and MSRB Letter at 11. COBIT (formerly
known as Control Objectives for Information and related Technology) is an enterprise
information technology governance framework developed by ISACA (formerly known as
the Information Systems Audit and Control Association).

585

See DTCC Letter at 15; ISE Letter at 11; FINRA Letter at 31; and Omgeo Letter at 33.
FINRA recommended ISO-27000 series because it provides “greater specificity” and
may be “less burdensome” than the standards identified in proposed Table A. ISE and
DTCC recommended ISO 27000 specifically for application controls, information
security and networking, and physical security controls. Omgeo stated more broadly that
it models aspects of its program on widely accepted international standards and
frameworks such as ITIL and ISO 27000.

586

See CAST Letter and CISQ2 Letter. CAST suggested supplementing the SCI industry
standards with standards that address development, as well as standards that pertain to
structural software quality, such as ISO 25010 and CISQ Software Quality Specification.
See CAST Letter at 5. CISQ2 agreed that standards addressing structural software
quality are needed and suggested including CISQ Specification for Automated Quality
Characteristic Measures: CISQ-TR-2012-01 in Table A. CISQ also pointed to the
Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) as another potential option, noting that it
was the most widely adopted process standard for rigorous software development
practices. See CISQ2 Letter at 3-4.

587

See OCC Letter at 9; and ISE Letter at 11. ISE also specifically recommended BS 25999
as an alternative contingency planning standard.

588

See CAST Letter at 5; and CISQ Letter at 1.

589

See CAST Letter at 10.

590

See FIF Letter at 4.

591

See id.

592

See Lauer Letter at 5-7.

189

BITS Financial Services Roundtable Software Assurance Framework (January 2012), 593 the
“Build Security In Maturity Model” (BSTMM), 594 Microsoft’s SDL, 595 and resources for
defining secure software development practices from organizations such as OWASP, WASC and
SAFECode, 596 and publications issued by Scrum Alliance, 597 the Association for Software
Testing (AST), 598 the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), 599 and the
Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). 600 In addition, one commenter suggested a
standard currently being drafted by AT 9000, a working group which focuses on trading safety,
regulatory requirements, and achieving efficiency and effectiveness of systems involved in
automated trading. 601
A few commenters opposed referencing standards in Regulation SCI at the outset and
instead supported establishing a process that they believed would, after a certain period of time,
yield a coherent set of standards. 602 One of these commenters urged that best practices should
evolve from the Commission’s experience with the annual SCI review process and experience
with the ARP program, because such best practices will be specific to the securities industry and

593

See BIDS Letter at 7.

594

See id.

595

See id.

596

See id.

597

See Liquidnet Letter at 4.

598

See id.

599

See id.

600

See id.

601

See X9 Letter at 2.

602

See, e.g., FIF Letter at 4, 6; Liquidnet Letter at 3; UBS Letter at 7; and ISE Letter at 11.

190

reflect the actual practices of SCI entities. 603 Finally, several commenters suggested that the
Commission establish a working group to develop SCI industry standards. 604
The Commission has carefully considered these comments, and continues to believe that
there is value in identifying publications for SCI entities to consider looking to in establishing
reasonable policies and procedures, because doing so will provide guidance on how an SCI
entity may comply with adopted Rule 1001(a). The Commission therefore believes that issuance
of staff guidance that does this, as discussed above, will be useful for SCI entities. However,
after careful consideration of commenters’ views regarding the publications on proposed Table
A, the Commission believes it is useful to characterize how such staff guidance should be used
by SCI entities. In particular, the Commission understands that some commenters who objected
to the proposed Table A concept and/or the proposed Table A content were more broadly taking
issue with the characterization of certain of the documents on proposed Table A, such as the
NIST 800-53 document, as a “standard,” rather than a “framework” or a “process.” 605 The
Commission believes that many commenters implicitly were questioning why certain identified
technology frameworks (such as NIST 800-53) were being labeled as, and thereby elevated to, an

603

See FIF Letter at 4, 6.

604

See, e.g., Liquidnet Letter at 3 (urging that a working group consisting of regulators,
industry participants (from exchanges, ATSs and broker-dealers) and security and
controls experts be established to develop a security and controls framework for the
industry). See also UBS Letter at 7 (urging the Commission to convene a “crossindustry, multi-disciplinary Working Group” to be responsible for developing
recommendations for appropriate standards); and ISE Letter at 11 (recommending that
the Commission authorize SCI entities to establish a standards committee to review and
recommend specific sets of standards). See also CISQ Letter at 2, 6 (supporting the
Table A approach but also seeing value in tailoring existing standards from professional
organizations into an industry-specific set of standards for SCI entities).

605

The Commission also notes that this point was made by a member of the third panel at
the Cybersecurity Roundtable, supra note 39. See also FINRA Letter at 31.

191

example of “current SCI industry standards” when many SCI entities were already following
ISO 27000, COBIT, or other technology standards that they viewed as more specific, relevant,
and/or cost effective than the NIST frameworks identified on proposed Table A. 606 In response
to these comments, the Commission believes it is appropriate that the staff’s guidance be
characterized as listing examples of publications describing processes, guidelines, frameworks,
or standards for an SCI entity to consider looking to in developing reasonable policies and
procedures, rather than strictly as listing industry standards. Thus, the Commission believes it is
appropriate if Commission staff were to list publications that provide guidance to SCI entities on
suitable processes for developing, documenting, and implementing policies and procedures for
their SCI systems (and indirect SCI systems, as applicable), taking into account the criticality of
each such system.
With respect to the publications commenters suggested for inclusion on proposed Table
A, the Commission is not disputing the value of such standards, and believes that each, when
considered with respect to a particular system at an SCI entity, may contain appropriate
standards for the SCI entity to use as, or incorporate within, its policies and procedures. 607 The
Commission notes that the guidance is intended to be used as a baseline from which the staff
may work with SCI entities and other interested market participants to build consensus on
industry-specific standards, as discussed more fully below. Further, the Commission believes
that the goal of providing general and flexible guidance to SCI entities does not necessitate
providing a lengthy list of all the publications that meet the criteria set forth in Rule

606

See supra notes 577-601 and accompanying text.

607

See supra notes 577-601 and accompanying text.
192

1001(a)(4). 608
The Commission continues to believe that it may be appropriate for an SCI entity to
choose to adhere to a standard or guideline in a given domain or subcategory thereof that is
different from those contained in the staff guidance, and emphasizes that nothing that the staff
may include in its guidance precludes an SCI entity from adhering to standards such as ISO
27000, COBIT, or others referenced by commenters to the extent they result in policies and
procedures that comply with the requirements of Rule 1001(a). 609 Moreover, adopted Rule
1001(a)(4) explicitly provides that compliance with current SCI industry standards (i.e.,
including those publications identified by the Commission staff) is not the exclusive method of
compliance with Rule 1001(a). Accordingly, an SCI entity’s determination not to adhere to
some or all of the publications included in the staff guidance in developing its policies and
procedures does not necessarily mean that its policies and procedures will be deficient or
unreasonable for purposes of Rule 1001(a)(1). Importantly, the publications listed by
Commission staff should be understood to provide guidance to SCI entities on selecting
appropriate controls for applicable systems, as well as suitable processes for developing,
documenting, and implementing policies and procedures for their SCI systems (and indirect SCI
systems, as applicable), taking into account the criticality of each such system. Thus, for
example, the Commission believes it would be reasonable for the most robust controls to be
608

See supra note 557 and accompanying text.

609

Likewise, such guidance would not preclude an SCI entity from adopting a derivative of
multiple standards, and/or customizing one or more standards for the particular system at
issue, as one commenter suggested. See supra note 567 and accompanying text. In
assessing whether an SCI entity’s use of such an approach in designing its policies and
policies and procedures would be “deemed” to be reasonably designed, the Commission’s
inquiry would be into whether its policies and procedures were consistent with standards
meeting the criteria in adopted Rule 1001(a)(4).

193

selected and implemented for “critical SCI systems,” as compared to other types of SCI systems,
and the Commission believes it would be appropriate that the staff’s guidance include
publications that require more rigorous controls for higher-risk systems. The staff guidance is
not intended to be static, however. As the Commission staff works with SCI entities, as well as
members of the securities industry, technology experts, and interested members of the public,
and as technology standards continue to evolve, the Commission anticipates that the Commission
staff will periodically update the staff guidance as appropriate.
Another way in which the publications identified by Commission staff should provide
guidance to SCI entities is by providing transparency on how the staff will, at least initially,
prepare for and conduct inspections relating to Regulation SCI. As discussed in the SCI
Proposal and above, 610 for over two decades, ARP staff has conducted inspections of ARP entity
systems, with a goal of evaluating whether an ARP entity’s controls over its information
technology resources in each domain are consistent with ARP and industry guidelines, 611 as
identified by ARP staff from a variety of information technology publications that ARP staff
believed were appropriate for securities market participants. 612 With the adoption of Regulation
SCI, and the resultant transition away from the voluntary ARP Inspection Program to an
inspection program under Regulation SCI, the Commission believes it is helpful to establish
consistency in its approach to examining SCI entities for compliance with Regulation SCI.
Importantly, establishing consistency does not mean that the Commission will take a one-size610

See supra Section II.A.

611

As stated in the SCI Proposal, the domains covered during an ARP inspection depend in
part upon whether the inspection is a regular inspection or a “for-cause” inspection.
Typically, however, to make the most efficient use of resources, a single ARP inspection
will cover fewer than nine domains. See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18086.

612

See id. and supra Section II.A (discussing the ARP Inspection Program).

194

fits-all or checklist approach. Because the publications identified by Commission staff should be
general and flexible enough to be compatible with many widely-recognized technology standards
that SCI entities currently use, the Commission believes the publications identified by
Commission staff should provide guidance for an SCI entity to self-assess whether its policies
and procedures comply with Rules 1001(a)(1)-(2). Moreover, because use of the publications
identified by Commission staff is not mandatory, the staff guidance should not be regarded as
establishing a checklist, the use of which could result in unintended consequences, but rather a
basis for considering how an SCI entity’s selected standards relate to the guidance provided by
Commission staff and whether they are appropriate standards for use by that particular SCI entity
for a given system.
The Commission believes that it would be appropriate that the publications initially
identified by Commission staff at a minimum include the nine inspection areas, or “domains,”
that the Commission identified on Table A in the SCI Proposal and that are relevant to SCI
entities’ systems capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security, namely: application
controls; capacity planning; computer operations and production environment controls;
contingency planning; information security and networking; audit; outsourcing; physical
security; and systems development methodology.
The Commission believes it would be appropriate that each publication identified by
Commission staff be identified with specificity and include the particular publication’s date,
volume number, and/or publication number, as the case may be. Thus, for SCI entities that
establish or self-assess their policies and procedures in reliance on the guidance provided by the
publications identified by Commission staff, the Commission believes that the publications
should be the relevant publications until such time as the list is updated by Commission staff. Of

195

course, SCI entities may elect to use publications describing processes, guidelines, frameworks,
and/or standards other than those identified by Commission staff to develop policies and
procedures that satisfy the requirements of Rules 1001(a)(1)-(2).
As stated in the SCI Proposal, however, the Commission continues to believe that the
development of securities-industry specific standards is a worthy goal. Although some
commenters urged the Commission not to adopt Table A at the outset, and instead establish a
process to achieve that end, 613 the Commission believes that the better approach is for
Commission staff to provide examples of publications through its guidance that form a baseline
and remain open to emerging consensus on industry-specific standards. In response to the
commenter that suggested that the Commission leverage the annual SCI review process and the
SCI inspection process to yield a coherent set of industry-specific standards that could be
referenced on Table A, the Commission believes that such an approach could serve as an
appropriate input into the future development of such standards. 614 In response to the
commenter who stated that the proposed Table A publications do not take into account the
technological and economic stability of the U.S. market as a whole, 615 the Commission notes that
the technological stability of individual SCI entities, in tandem with a heightened focus on
critical SCI systems, are necessary prerequisites to achieving such market-wide goals.
Accordingly, the Commission believes that the publications identified by Commission staff
today should serve as an appropriate initial set of publications, processes, guidelines,
frameworks, and standards for SCI entities to use as guidance to develop their policies and

613

See supra note 604 and accompanying text.

614

See supra note 602 and accompanying text.

615

See supra note 582 and accompanying text.

196

procedures under Rule 1001(a). With this guidance as a starting point, the Commission expects
that the Commission staff will seek to work with members of the securities industry, technology
experts, and interested members of the public towards developing standards relating to systems
capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security appropriately tailored for the securities
industry and SCI entities, and periodically issue staff guidance that updates the guidance with
such standards.
2.

Policies and Procedures to Achieve Systems Compliance – Rule
1001(b)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(2)(i) would have required each SCI entity to establish, maintain,
and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems
operate in the manner intended, including in a manner that complies with the federal securities
laws and rules and regulations thereunder and the SCI entity’s rules and governing documents, as
applicable.
Proposed Rule 1000(b)(2) also would have included safe harbors for an SCI entity and its
employees. Specifically, proposed Rule 1000(b)(2)(ii) provided that an SCI entity would be
deemed not to have violated proposed Rule 1000(b)(2)(i) if the SCI entity: (1) established
policies and procedures reasonably designed to provide for specified elements; (2) established
and maintained a system for applying such policies and procedures which would reasonably be
expected to prevent and detect, insofar as practicable, any violations of such policies and
procedures by the SCI entity or any person employed by the SCI entity; and (3) reasonably
discharged the duties and obligations incumbent upon it by such policies and procedures, and
was without reasonable cause to believe that such policies and procedures were not being
complied with in any material respect. The safe harbor for SCI entities in proposed Rule
1000(b)(2)(ii) specified that the SCI entity’s policies and procedures must be reasonably
197

designed to provide for: (1) testing of all SCI systems and any changes to such systems prior to
implementation; (2) periodic testing of all SCI systems and any changes to such systems after
their implementation; (3) a system of internal controls over changes to SCI systems; (4) ongoing
monitoring of the functionality of SCI systems to detect whether they are operating in the
manner intended; (5) assessments of SCI systems compliance performed by personnel familiar
with applicable federal securities laws and rules and regulations thereunder and the SCI entity’s
rules and governing documents, as applicable; and (6) review by regulatory personnel of SCI
systems design, changes, testing, and controls to prevent, detect, and address actions that do not
comply with applicable federal securities laws and rules and regulations thereunder and the SCI
entity’s rules and governing documents, as applicable.
In addition, proposed Rule 1000(b)(2)(iii) set forth a safe harbor for individuals. It
provided that a person employed by an SCI entity would be deemed not to have aided, abetted,
counseled, commanded, caused, induced, or procured the violation by any other person of
proposed Rule 1000(b)(2)(i) if the person employed by the SCI entity has reasonably discharged
the duties and obligations incumbent upon such person by the policies and procedures, and was
without reasonable cause to believe that such policies and procedures were not being complied
with in any material respect.
After careful consideration of the comments, proposed Rule 1000(b)(2) is adopted as
Rule 1001(b) with modifications, as discussed below.
a.

Reasonable Policies and Procedures to Achieve Systems
Compliance

The Commission received significant comment on its proposal to require that SCI entities
establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure
systems compliance. Some commenters supported the broad goals of a policies and procedures
198

requirement to help ensure that SCI systems operate as intended. 616 Other commenters
questioned whether any set of policies and procedures could guarantee perfect operational
compliance. 617 One commenter emphasized that no set of policies and procedures can guarantee
100% operational compliance and that, historically, the Commission has allowed entities to use a
reasonableness standard so that policies and procedures are required to be reasonably designed to
promote compliance, and the same should be used for the underlying predicate requirement in
Regulation SCI. 618 A few commenters expressed concern that, in instances where an SCI
entity’s policies and procedures failed to prevent SCI events, the Commission might use such
failures as the basis for an enforcement action, charging that the policies and procedures were not
reasonable. 619 One commenter believed that compliance with Regulation SCI should be
measured against a firm’s adherence to its own set of policies and procedures that are in keeping
with SCI system objectives, and such policies should be reviewed and updated as part of the
annual SCI review process. 620 Another commenter requested that the Commission more clearly
distinguish between liability under Regulation SCI and liability for SCI events, stating that

616

See MSRB Letter at 12-13; SIFMA Letter at 12; and MFA Letter at 3. Two of these
commenters believed that SCI entities that perform critical market functions should be
required to have more stringent policies and procedures than less critical SCI entities.
See SIFMA Letter at 12; and MFA Letter at 3-4.

617

See ITG Letter at 14. See also BATS Letter at 3-4, 6.

618

See ITG Letter at 14.

619

See BATS Letter at 3-4; Angel Letter at 4; and FSR Letter at 5. One of these
commenters considered this possibility as, in effect, imposing a strict liability standard
with respect to systems issues, and was concerned that the proposed approach would
result in “finger-pointing” and constant enforcement actions for immaterial violations that
desensitize people to actual material violations. See FSR Letter at 3-8.

620

See FIF Letter at 4.
199

compliance with Regulation SCI and compliance with other federal securities laws and rules
must remain distinct. 621
Whereas adopted Rule 1001(a) 622 concerns the robustness of the SCI entity’s systems,
adopted Rule 1001(b) 623 concerns the operational compliance of an SCI entity’s SCI systems
with the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and the SCI entity’s governing
documents. The Commission continues to believe, as stated in the SCI Proposal, that a rule
requiring SCI entities to establish, maintain, and enforce policies and procedures reasonably
designed to ensure operational compliance will help to: ensure that SCI SROs comply with
Section 19(b)(1) of the Exchange Act; 624 reinforce existing SRO rule filing processes to assist
market participants and the public in understanding how the SCI systems of SCI SROs are
intended to operate; and assist SCI SROs in meeting their obligations to file plan amendments to
SCI Plans under Rule 608 of Regulation NMS. 625 It will similarly help other SCI entities (i.e.,
SCI ATSs, plan processors, and exempt clearing agencies subject to ARP) to achieve operational
compliance with the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and their governing
documents.
The Commission notes that Rule 1001(b) is intended to help prevent the occurrence of
systems compliance issues at SCI entities. The Commission discussed in Section IV.A.3.b the
rationale for further focusing the definition of systems compliance issue (i.e., replacing the
621

See FSR Letter at 6.

622

Adopted Rule 1001(a) was proposed as Rule 1000(b)(1).

623

Adopted Rule 1001(b) was proposed as Rule 1000(b)(2).

624

See 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (requiring each SRO to file with the Commission copies of any
proposed rule or any proposed change in, addition to, or deletion from the rules of the
SRO).

625

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18115.

200

reference to operating “in the manner intended, including in a manner that complies with the
federal securities laws” with a reference to operating “in a manner that complies with the Act”).
To provide consistency between the definition of systems compliance issue and the requirement
for policies and procedures to ensure systems compliance, the Commission is similarly revising
Rule 1001(b)(1) to require each SCI entity to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies
and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems operate “in a manner that
complies with the Act” and the rules and regulations thereunder and the entity’s rules and
governing documents, as applicable.
As noted above, some commenters expressed concern that an SCI entity would be found
to be in violation of Rule 1001(b) if an SCI event occurs. 626 Consistent with the discussion
above regarding Rule 1001(a), the Commission emphasizes that the occurrence of a systems
compliance issue at an SCI entity does not necessarily mean that the SCI entity has violated Rule
1001(b) of Regulation SCI. As stated in the SCI Proposal, an SCI entity will not be deemed to
be in violation of Rule 1001(b) solely because it experienced a systems compliance issue. 627 The

626

See supra notes 617-620 and accompanying text. One of these commenters believed that
compliance with Regulation SCI should be measured against a firm’s adherence to its
own set of policies and procedures that are in keeping with SCI systems objectives. See
supra note 620 and accompanying text. The Commission understands this commenter to
be expressing the same concern as other commenters that an SCI entity would be found
to be in violation of Rule 1001(b) if an SCI event occurs. This commenter also noted that
policies and procedures should be reviewed and updated as part of the annual SCI review
process. See supra note 620 and accompanying text. The comment regarding reviews
and updates of policies and procedures is addressed below. See infra note 673 and
accompanying text.

627

Also, as noted in the SCI Proposal, an employee of an SCI entity would not be deemed to
have aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, caused, induced, or procured the violation
by any other person of Rule 1001(b) merely because the SCI entity at which the
employee worked experienced a systems compliance issue. See Proposing Release, supra
note 13, at 18116.

201

Commission also notes that Rule 1001(b) requires systems compliance policies and procedures
to be reasonably designed. 628 The Commission acknowledges that reasonable policies and
procedures will not ensure the elimination of all systems issues, including systems compliance
issues. While a systems compliance issue may be probative as to the reasonableness of an SCI
entity’s policies and procedures, it is not determinative. Further, the occurrence of a systems
compliance issue also does not necessarily mean that the SCI entity will be subject to an
enforcement action. Rather, the Commission will exercise its discretion to initiate an
enforcement action if the Commission determines that action is warranted, based on the
particular facts and circumstances of an individual situation.
In response to one commenter’s request that the Commission more clearly distinguish
between liability under Regulation SCI and liability for SCI events, 629 the Commission notes that
liability under Regulation SCI is separate and distinct from liability for other violations that may
arise from the underlying SCI event. In particular, whether an SCI entity violated Regulation
SCI does not affect the determination of whether the underlying SCI event also caused the SCI
entity to violate other laws or rules, and compliance with Regulation SCI is not a safe harbor or
other shield from liability under other laws or rules. Thus, even if the occurrence of an SCI

628

As stated above, one commenter noted that no set of policies and procedures can
guarantee 100% operational compliance and that historically, the Commission has
allowed entities to use a reasonableness standard so that policies and procedures are
required to be reasonably designed to promote compliance, and the same approach should
be used for Regulation SCI. See supra note 618 and accompanying text. The
Commission agrees with this commenter that reasonably designed policies and
procedures might not completely eliminate the occurrence of systems compliance issues.
Also, adopted Rule 1001(b) is consistent with this commenter’s suggestion, because it
requires policies and procedures that are “reasonably designed” to ensure systems
compliance.

629

See supra note 621 and accompanying text.

202

event does not cause an SCI entity to be found to be in violation of Regulation SCI, the SCI
entity may still be liable under other Commission rules or regulations, the Exchange Act, or SRO
rules for the underlying SCI event. 630
b.

Proposed Safe Harbor for SCI Entities
i.

Comments Received

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission solicited comment on the proposed approach to
include safe harbor provisions in proposed Rule 1000(b)(2) and specifically asked whether
commenters agreed with the proposed inclusion of safe harbors. 631 Many commenters
specifically addressed the safe harbors in proposed Rule 1000(b)(2). Two commenters urged
elimination of the proposed safe harbors. 632 One of these commenters stated that the safe
harbors were framed so generally that they would be easy to invoke. 633 This commenter also
stated that inclusion of a safe harbor provision for compliance standards would unnecessarily and
severely limit the Commission’s ability to deter violations through meaningful enforcement
actions. 634 The other commenter stated that, if a safe harbor is adopted, the Commission should
be as specific as possible in establishing how to qualify for the safe harbor, and recommended
that Commission guidance ensure that SCI entities are actively building and improving upon

630

For example, it is possible for an SCI SRO to have established, maintained, and enforced
reasonably designed systems compliance policies and procedures consistent with the
requirements of Rule 1001(b) of Regulation SCI, but still potentially violate Section
19(g) of the Exchange Act if the operation of its systems is inconsistent with its own
rules. See 15 U.S.C. 78s(g) (requiring every SRO to comply with the Exchange Act, the
rules and regulations thereunder, and its own rules).

631

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18117, question 104.

632

See Better Markets Letter at 5-6; and Lauer Letter at 7-8.

633

See Better Markets Letter at 5-6.

634

See id. at 6.

203

safety systems and not simply checking boxes and doing the minimal amount necessary to ensure
compliance. 635
In contrast, several commenters supported the inclusion of a safe harbor in proposed Rule
1000(b)(2) in theory, but objected to the proposed approach. 636 Some commenters stated that the
proposed safe harbor, with its prescriptive requirements, would evolve into the de facto rule itself
as SCI entities decide to adhere to the requirements of the safe harbor rather than risk a potential
enforcement action stemming from an SCI event. 637 One of these commenters noted that the
safe harbor merely further defined the elements that the policies and procedures must have by
providing a list of points that reasonably designed policies and procedures must cover. 638 This
commenter believed that including a requirement for reasonably designed policies and
procedures and providing a safe harbor when those policies and procedures are reasonably
designed is inherently circular, and expressed concern about liability under Regulation SCI
whenever there is a systems or technology malfunction or error. 639 This commenter also
compared the proposed SCI entity safe harbor to other rules, stating that the other rules requiring
policies and procedures recognize the need for those policies and procedures to be reasonably
designed in light of the manner in which business is conducted. 640 This commenter further noted
635

See Lauer Letter at 7-8.

636

See, e.g., Angel Letter; Direct Edge Letter; FSR Letter; ITG Letter; MSRB Letter; NYSE
Letter; OCC Letter; OTC Markets Letter; and Joint SROs Letter.

637

See ITG Letter at 14 (stating that “[t]he safe harbor contains so many requirements that it
operates as a rule by itself”); and FSR Letter at 8.

638

See FSR Letter at 4-5.

639

See id. at 5-6.

640

See FSR Letter at 8-9 (expressing concern that the safe harbor will become the sole
yardstick by which conduct is measured and, even if the safe harbor were non-exclusive,
it could become the de facto standard to the exclusion of other, legitimate approaches).

204

that, if the Commission intends that all SCI entities conform to the standards articulated in the
safe harbor, the Commission should set them forth as express provisions of the rule, although
this commenter believed that such an approach would be misguided because it would create
strictures that impose protocols that may not be suitable for certain market participants. 641
Several other commenters expressed concern that the proposed safe harbors were
unclear. 642 One group of commenters noted that the provisions in the proposed safe harbors
were vague, subjective, and merely duplicate elements that would result from a logical
interpretation of Rule 1000(b)(1), 643 which these commenters believed offered no safe harbor
protection at all. 644 Another commenter stated that the use of a reasonableness standard with
respect to the design of systems and the discharge of duties under an SCI entity’s policies and
procedures would mean that an SCI entity and its employees would never know with certainty
whether they met the terms of the safe harbor. 645 Another commenter similarly stated that SCI
entities cannot know if they have complied with the safe harbor unless more guidance is
provided on the concept of “reasonable policies and procedures” and the Commission explains

641

See FSR Letter at 9.

642

See, e.g., FSR Letter; OCC Letter; and OTC Markets Letter.

643

See Joint SROs Letter at 13 (stating that the proposed safe harbor should provide a more
objective and transparent approach, and provide SCI entities a clear, affirmative defense
from allegations of having violated Regulation SCI).

644

See Joint SROs Letter at 13.

645

See OCC Letter at 11. This commenter also questioned the value of the safe harbors as
proposed and requested that the Commission consider including bright-line tests and
minimum standards in the safe harbor provisions to better guide SCI entities and their
employees in avoiding liability under Regulation SCI. See OCC Letter at 11. See also
NYSE Letter at 30 (noting that the Commission provided no guidance on the phrase
“policies and procedures reasonably designed”).

205

what constitutes adequate testing, monitoring, assessments, and review for each system. 646 One
commenter agreed with the need for a safe harbor but stated that the proposed safe harbor is not
sufficiently robust because it contains “vague and extensive requirements that are overly
subjective” and the Commission therefore would be “likely to review an SCI entity’s
interpretation of the safe harbor in the event of a systems issue with the benefit of 20/20
hindsight.” 647 This commenter expressed concern that the occurrence of a significant systems
event would mean that an exchange did not have reasonable policies and procedures and would
be outside the terms of the proposed safe harbor. 648
A few commenters suggested specific alternatives to the proposed safe harbors. 649 One
commenter recommended that the Commission adopt a safe harbor with objective criteria to
protect SCI entities from enforcement actions under Regulation SCI except in cases of
intentional or reckless non-compliance or patterns of non-compliance with Regulation SCI, or if
an SCI entity fails to implement reasonable corrective action in response to a written
communication from the Commission regarding Regulation SCI. 650 This commenter urged that,

646

See OTC Markets Letter at 15.

647

See NYSE Letter at 30.

648

See id.

649

See, e.g., FSR Letter; ITG Letter; OTC Markets Letter; Joint SROs Letter; and NYSE
Letter.

650

See NYSE Letter at 29, 31-32. This commenter also suggested that SCI entity employees
be protected except in instances where employees intentionally or recklessly fail to
discharge their duties and obligations under the SCI entity’s policies and procedures. See
NYSE Letter at 29, 31-32. This comment and the individual safe harbor are addressed in
Section IV.B.2.d below. Another commenter, expressing support for NYSE’s suggested
approach for SCI entities and their employees, stated that an objective standard would
provide the proper incentives for compliance and allow SCI entities to reasonably
evaluate their potential exposure when an SCI event occurs and act quickly in the critical
moments following an SCI event. See OTC Markets Letter at 16.

206

even if the Commission does not include the suggested safe harbor, the adopting release should
clearly state that the Commission will not pursue enforcement actions against SCI entities that
establish, maintain, and enforce compliance policies and procedures or act in good faith,
notwithstanding a violation of Regulation SCI. 651
One group of commenters similarly recommended that the Commission adopt an
objective safe harbor. 652 These commenters noted that minor mistakes and unintentional errors
occur in the daily operations of running a business, and a safe harbor should provide protection
to SCI entities that follow the policies and procedures as intended, including in the resolution and
containment of such mistakes and errors. 653 These commenters believed that it should be
sufficient for an SCI entity to qualify for the safe harbor if it adopts policies and procedures
reasonably designed to comply with Regulation SCI and does not knowingly violate such
policies and procedures. 654 These commenters further requested that the Commission clarify its
views on the protections of the safe harbor for inadvertent violations of other laws and rules
despite compliance with Regulation SCI and expand the safe harbor to explicitly cover such
instances. 655
One commenter suggested simplifying the safe harbor to require only that an SCI entity
adopt reasonable policies and procedures to comply with proposed Regulation SCI, which should

651

See NYSE Letter at 32, n. 41.

652

See Joint SROs Letter at 13-14.

653

See id.

654

See id. These commenters suggested a parallel safe harbor for employees of SCI entities.
See id. at 14.

655

See id.

207

include reasonable ongoing responsibilities related to testing and monitoring. 656 Another
commenter believed that the safe harbor should grant immunity from enforcement penalties for
all problems that are self-reported by SCI entities and individuals. 657 One commenter suggested
that Regulation SCI should: (1) encourage parties to discover and remediate technology errors
and malfunctions, and/or deficiencies in their policies and procedures; (2) avoid ipso facto
liability under Regulation SCI for failures by technology or systems; and (3) require some form
of causation in order for liability to attach. 658 This commenter also recommended that the
Commission provide safe harbors from liability under both proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2)
where either: (1) the SCI entity or SCI personnel discovers and remediates a problem without
regulatory intervention and assuming no underlying material violation; or (2) no technology error
or problem has occurred, but the policies and procedures might benefit from improvements. 659
According to this commenter, the remediation safe harbor should also apply to underlying
technology problems if the SCI entity had complied with Regulation SCI. 660 One commenter
expressed concern that, without a safe harbor and a guarantee of immunity, the disclosures to the
Commission required under Regulation SCI would provide a roadmap for litigation against nonSRO entities. 661

656

See ITG Letter at 14.

657

See Angel Letter at 4.

658

See FSR Letter at 9.

659

See id. at 9-10.

660

See id. at 3, 9-10.

661

See OTC Markets Letter at 15-16 (stating that “entities that do not have SRO immunity,
such as ATSs, may be subject to liability based on information reported under Reg. SCI’s
Rule 1000(b)(4)(iv)…[w]ithout a safe harbor and a guarantee of immunity, this kind of
disclosure provides a roadmap for litigation against non-SRO SCI entities”).

208

ii.

Elimination of Proposed Safe Harbor for SCI Entities
and Specification of Minimum Elements

As discussed in greater detail below, after careful consideration of the comments, and in
light of the more focused scope of Regulation SCI, the Commission has determined not to adopt
the proposed safe harbor for SCI entities. 662 Rather, Rule 1001(b) sets forth non-exhaustive
minimum elements that an SCI entity must include in its systems compliance policies and
procedures. The Commission recognizes that the precise nature, size, technology, business
model, and other aspects of each SCI entity’s business vary. Therefore, the minimum elements
are intended to be general in order to accommodate these differences, and each SCI entity will
need to exercise judgment in developing and maintaining specific policies and procedures that
are reasonably designed to achieve systems compliance. The Commission also believes that SCI
entities should consider the evolving nature of the securities industry, as well as industry
practices and standards, in developing and maintaining such policies and procedures. As such,
the elements specified in Rule 1001(b) are non-exhaustive, and each SCI entity should consider
on an ongoing basis what steps it needs to take in order to ensure that its policies and procedures
are reasonably designed.
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission stated that, “[b]ecause of the complexity of SCI
systems and the breadth of the federal securities laws and rules and regulations thereunder and
the SCI entities’ rules and governing documents, the Commission preliminarily believes that it
would be appropriate to provide an explicit safe harbor for SCI entities and their employees in
662

The Commission’s decision not to adopt an SCI entity safe harbor also addresses a
commenter’s concern that the inclusion of a safe harbor provision in Rule 1001(b) could
unnecessarily and severely limit the Commission’s ability to deter violations through
meaningful enforcement actions. See supra notes 633-634 and accompanying text. As
discussed in Section IV.B.2.d below, however, the Commission is adopting a safe harbor
for personnel of SCI entities.

209

order to provide greater clarity as to how they can ensure that their conduct will comply with
[Rule 1000(b)(2)].” 663
One reason that the Commission is not adopting the proposed safe harbor for SCI entities
is that the Commission has focused the scope of Regulation SCI as adopted. For example,
adopted Rule 1001(b) requires policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to ensure
compliance with “the Act”—rather than operating “in the manner intended, including in a
manner that complies with the federal securities laws” as was proposed—and the rules and
regulations thereunder, and the SCI entity’s rules and governing documents. Therefore, the
requirement under adopted Rule 1001(b) is more targeted than the requirement under proposed
Rule 1000(b)(2), and alleviates some of the concern regarding the “breadth of the federal
securities laws and rules and regulations thereunder” that was expressed in the SCI Proposal.
The Commission expects that SCI entities are familiar with their obligations under the Exchange
Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and their own rules and governing documents. In
addition, as discussed in Section IV.A.2.b above, the Commission has further focused the scope
of SCI systems, which also alleviates some of the concern regarding the “complexity of SCI
systems” that was expressed in the SCI Proposal. 664
Further, as noted above, in the SCI Proposal, the Commission stated its preliminary belief
that it would be appropriate to provide an explicit safe harbor for SCI entities in order to provide
greater clarity on how they could comply with proposed Rule 1000(b)(2). 665 Rather than
achieving this goal, commenters argued that the proposed safe harbor merely further defined the

663

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18115.

664

See id.

665

See id.

210

elements that the policies and procedures must have, and did not include sufficient guidance or
specificity to SCI entities seeking to rely on it. 666 For example, one commenter noted that the
policies and procedures specified in the safe harbor would still need to be “reasonably
designed.” 667 Further, the Commission acknowledges some commenters’ concern that the
proposed safe harbor, “with its prescriptive requirements,” could evolve into the de facto rule
itself. 668
As discussed above, the Commission is not adopting a safe harbor for SCI entities.
Rather, adopted Rule 1001(b)(1) requires an SCI entity to have reasonably designed policies and
procedures to achieve systems compliance and adopted Rule 1001(b)(2) specifies nonexhaustive, general minimum elements that an SCI entity must include in its systems compliance
policies and procedures. These minimum elements are based on the elements contained in the
666

See supra notes 638-639, 643-648 and accompanying text. With respect to the group of
commenters who suggested that the safe harbor should give SCI entities a clear,
affirmative defense from allegations of having violated Regulation SCI, as discussed
above, the Commission is eliminating the proposed safe harbor for SCI entities. See
supra note 643. As discussed below, the Commission believes that, by specifying nonexhaustive minimum elements that an SCI entity must include in its systems compliance
policies and procedures, the rule will encourage SCI entities to actively build and
improve upon the compliance of their systems, rather than limit their compliance to some
fixed elements of a safe harbor.

667

See supra notes 638-639 and accompanying text. This commenter also compared the
proposed SCI entity safe harbor to other rules, stating that the other rules requiring
policies and procedures recognize the need for those policies and procedures to be
reasonably designed in light of the manner in which business is conducted. See supra
note 640 and accompanying text. Rule 1001(b), as adopted, requires policies and
procedures to be “reasonably designed” to ensure the compliance of SCI systems.
Therefore, Rule 1001(b) recognizes the need for policies and procedures to be reasonably
designed in light of the manner in which an SCI entity’s business is conducted.

668

See supra note 637 and accompanying text and supra note 640. The Commission
acknowledges that some commenters who believed that the proposed safe harbor was
inadequate also advocated for alternative safe harbors, such as those that require
knowledge or recklessness for liability. These comments are discussed below in Section
IV.B.2.b.iii.

211

proposed safe harbor for SCI entities, but modified in response to concerns raised by
commenters. As adopted, Rules 1001(b)(1) and (b)(2) specify the minimum elements of
reasonably designed policies and procedures to achieve systems compliance, and at the same
time provide flexibility by permitting an SCI entity to establish policies and procedures that are
reasonably designed based on the nature, size, technology, business model, and other aspects of
its business. Moreover, the Commission believes that, by specifying non-exhaustive, general
minimum elements of systems compliance policies and procedures, the rule will encourage SCI
entities to actively build and improve upon the compliance of their systems rather than limit their
compliance to bright-line tests or the fixed elements of a safe harbor, and encourage the
evolution of sound practices over time. In addition, the Commission notes that there currently
are no publicly available written industry standards regarding systems compliance that are
applicable to all SCI entities that can serve as the basis for a clear, objective safe harbor, as there
is with current SCI industry standards (e.g., the publications listed in staff guidance) relating to
operational capability. Even if such standards existed, the Commission believes that the
specificity necessary to achieve the goal of a clear, objective safe harbor would disincentivize
SCI entities from continuing to improve their systems over time. Finally, the Commission
believes that, because the minimum elements specified in Rule 1001(b)(2) are non-exhaustive,
Rule 1001(b) can accommodate the possibility that, as technology evolves, additional or updated
elements could become appropriate for SCI entities to include in their systems compliance
policies and procedures to ensure that such policies and procedures remain reasonably designed
on an ongoing basis.
iii.

Response to Other Comments on the SCI Entity Safe
Harbor

212

With respect to commenters who requested clarification on the protection of the safe
harbor for inadvertent violations of other laws and rules despite compliance with Regulation
SCI, 669 as noted above, the Commission clarifies that liability under Regulation SCI is separate
and distinct from liability for other violations that may arise from the underlying SCI events
under other laws and rules. Specifically, Regulation SCI imposes new requirements on SCI
entities and is not intended to alter the standards for determining liability under other laws or
rules. Therefore, if an SCI entity is in compliance with Regulation SCI but inadvertently violates
another law or rule, whether or not the SCI entity will be liable under the other law or rule
depends on the standards for determining liability under such law or rule. Because the new
requirements under Regulation SCI are separate and distinct from existing requirements under
other laws or rules, Regulation SCI is not a shield from liability under such laws or rules.
The Commission also does not believe that it would be appropriate to provide a safe
harbor for all problems that are self-reported by SCI entities and individuals or that are
discovered and remediated without regulatory intervention, as suggested by commenters. 670 In
particular, Rule 1001(b) is intended to help ensure that SCI entities operate their systems in
compliance with the Exchange Act and relevant rules in the first place, and thus is not only
focused on helping to ensure that SCI entities appropriately respond to a compliance issue (e.g.,
by taking corrective action or reporting the issue to the Commission) after it has occurred and
impacted the market or market participants. Therefore, the Commission does not believe that the
suggested self-report or remediation safe harbors will effectively further this intent of Rule
1001(b). In particular, the Commission notes that reporting and remediation of SCI events are
669

See supra notes 655 and 660 and accompanying text.

670

See supra notes 657 and 659 and accompanying text.

213

separately required under Rules 1002(b) and (a) of Regulation SCI, respectively. The purposes
of Rule 1002(b) include keeping the Commission informed of SCI events after they have
occurred. Moreover, Rule 1002(a) is intended to ensure that SCI entities remedy a systems issue
and mitigate the resulting harm after the issue has already occurred. The Commission believes
that, if an SCI entity is protected from liability under Rule 1001(b) simply because it selfreported systems compliance issues or discovered and remediated systems compliance issues
without regulatory intervention, the SCI entity will not be effectively incentivized to have
reasonably designed policies and procedures to ensure systems compliance in the first place. As
discussed above, the occurrence of an SCI event will not necessarily cause a violation of
Regulation SCI. Further, the occurrence of a systems compliance issue also does not necessarily
mean that the SCI entity will be subject to an enforcement action. Rather, the Commission will
exercise its discretion to initiate an enforcement action if the Commission determines that action
is warranted, based on the particular facts and circumstances of an individual situation.
As discussed above, some commenters expressed concern that the occurrence of a
significant systems issue would mean that an SCI entity did not have reasonable policies and
procedures and therefore suggested “objective” safe harbors. 671 The Commission notes that all

671

See supra notes 650-654 and accompanying text. As discussed above, some of these
commenters suggested that the safe harbor should protect SCI entities from enforcement
action except in cases of intentional or reckless non-compliance, or patterns of noncompliance with Regulation SCI. See supra note 650 and accompanying text. As an
alternative to the intentional and recklessness standard, one of these commenters
requested that the Commission specifically state that the Commission will not pursue
enforcement actions against SCI entities that establish, maintain, and enforce systems
compliance policies and procedures or act in good faith, notwithstanding a violation of
Regulation SCI. See supra note 651 and accompanying text. One commenter noted that
it should be sufficient for an SCI entity to qualify for the safe harbor if it adopts policies
and procedures reasonably designed to comply with Regulation SCI and does not
214

SCI entities are required to comply with the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder,
and their own rules and governing documents, as applicable, and the purpose of Rule 1001(b) is
to effectively help ensure compliance of the operation of SCI systems with these laws and rules.
The Commission does not believe that Rule 1001(b) would further this goal to the same degree if
the Commission were to adopt commenters’ safe harbor suggestions (i.e., an SCI entity is
deemed to be in compliance with Rule 1001(b) so long as: the SCI entity is not knowingly out of
compliance; such non-compliance is not intentional, reckless, or in bad faith; or there is no
pattern of non-compliance) because, with these suggested “objective” safe harbors, SCI entities
may not be effectively incentivized to establish, maintain, and enforce reasonably designed
policies and procedures to ensure systems compliance. Moreover, the Commission notes that
Rule 1001(b) requires “reasonably designed” policies and procedures, which already provides
flexibility to SCI entities in complying with the rule. The Commission also emphasizes again
that, while it is eliminating the safe harbor for SCI entities, the occurrence of a systems
compliance issue may be probative, but is not determinative, of whether an SCI entity violated
Regulation SCI. As noted above, an SCI entity would not be deemed to be in violation of Rule
1001(b)(1) merely because it experienced a systems compliance issue. Further, the occurrence
of a systems compliance issue also does not necessarily mean that the SCI entity will be subject
to an enforcement action. Rather, the Commission will exercise its discretion to initiate an
enforcement action if the Commission determines that action is warranted, based on the
particular facts and circumstances of an individual situation.

knowingly violate such policies and procedures. See supra note 654 and accompanying
text.

215

Further, as noted above, one commenter recommended that the Commission provide a
safe harbor where no technology error or problem has occurred, but the policies and procedures
might benefit from improvements. 672 The Commission believes that there may be instances
where an SCI entity’s policies and procedures might benefit from improvement, even though
they are reasonably designed. In such instances, the SCI entity is in compliance with Rule
1001(b) and therefore does not need a safe harbor. At the same time, the Commission notes that
there may be instances where no technology error or problem has occurred, but an SCI entity’s
policies and procedures with regard to systems compliance might nonetheless be deficient and
not satisfy the requirements of Rule 1001(b). The Commission does not believe that it would be
appropriate to provide a safe harbor in these instances. As noted above, Rule 1001(b) is intended
to help ensure that SCI entities operate their SCI systems in compliance with the Exchange Act
and relevant rules. The Commission does not believe that a safe harbor that effectively insulates
deficient policies and procedures will further the intent of this rule. Further, the Commission
notes that one requirement of Rule 1001(b)(1) is that an SCI entity “maintain” its policies and
procedures. To explicitly set forth an SCI entity’s obligation to review and update its policies
and procedures, similar to Rule 1001(a), the Commission is adopting a requirement for periodic
review by an SCI entity of the effectiveness of its systems compliance policies and procedures,
and prompt action by the SCI entity to remedy deficiencies in such policies and procedures. 673
672

See supra note 659 and accompanying text.

673

See Rule 1001(b)(3). The adoption of this review and update requirement is consistent
with the views of some commenters. See supra notes 620 and accompanying text
(discussing a commenter’s suggestion that policies and procedures should be reviewed
and updated as part of the annual SCI review process) and 658 and accompanying text
(discussing a commenter’s suggestion that Regulation SCI should encourage parties to
discover and remediate deficiencies in policies and procedures). The Commission notes
that Rule 1001(b)(3) requires SCI entities to review and update their systems compliance
216

The Commission notes that an SCI entity will not be found to be in violation of this maintenance
requirement solely because it failed to identify a deficiency immediately after the deficiency
occurred, if the SCI entity takes prompt action to remedy the deficiency once it is discovered,
and the SCI entity had otherwise appropriately reviewed the effectiveness of its policies and
procedures and took prompt action to remedy those deficiencies that were discovered.
Finally, as noted above, one commenter believed that, without a safe harbor and a
guarantee of immunity (such as the regulatory immunity of SROs), information provided to the
Commission pursuant to Rule 1000(b)(4)(iv) would provide a roadmap for litigation. As
discussed below in Section IV.B.3.c, the Commission acknowledges that, if an SCI entity
experiences an SCI event, it could become the subject of litigation (including private civil
litigation). At the same time, the Commission notes that the information submitted to the
Commission pursuant to Regulation SCI will be treated as confidential, subject to applicable
law. 674 On the other hand, the Commission acknowledges that it could consider the information
provided to the Commission pursuant to Rule 1002(b) in determining whether to initiate an
enforcement action. The Commission notes that all SCI entities are required to comply with the
Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and their own rules and governing

policies and procedures rather than simply “encourage” the discovery and remediation of
deficiencies because, in order to achieve the intended benefits of Rule 1001(b), an SCI
entity’s systems compliance policies and procedures must remain reasonably designed. If
the Commission simply encourages SCI entities to review and update their systems
compliance policies and procedures, the Commission believes that there would be a
greater likelihood that such policies and procedures might become outdated and less
effective in preventing systems compliance issues.
674

The Commission notes that the General Instructions to Form SCI, Item G. Paperwork
Reduction Act Disclosure, provides that the Commission “will keep the information
collected pursuant to Form SCI confidential to the extent permitted by law.” See infra
Section IV.C.2.

217

documents, as applicable, and the requirement for Commission notification of systems
compliance issues is intended to assist the Commission in its oversight of such compliance.
With respect to the regulatory immunity of SROs, the Commission notes that, although courts
have found that SROs are entitled to absolute immunity from private claims under certain
circumstances, 675 if an SRO fails to comply with the provisions of the Exchange Act, the rules or
regulations thereunder, or its own rules, the Commission is still authorized to impose
sanctions. 676 As such, like other SCI entities, SROs are not immune from Commission
sanctions. Finally, as discussed in detail above, the Commission does not believe that it would
be appropriate to provide a safe harbor for all problems that are self-reported to the Commission
by SCI entities and individuals.
c.

Minimum Elements of Reasonable Policies and Procedures

The safe harbor for SCI entities in proposed Rule 1000(b)(2)(ii) specified that, to qualify
for the safe harbor, the SCI entity’s policies and procedures must be reasonably designed to
provide for: (1) testing of all SCI systems and any changes to such systems prior to
implementation; (2) periodic testing of all SCI systems and any changes to such systems after
their implementation; (3) a system of internal controls over changes to SCI systems; (4) ongoing
monitoring of the functionality of SCI systems to detect whether they are operating in the
manner intended; (5) assessments of SCI systems compliance performed by personnel familiar
675

The Commission notes that SRO immunity applies only under certain circumstances. In
particular, “when acting in its capacity as a SRO, [the SRO] is entitled to immunity from
suit when it engages in conduct consistent with the quasi-governmental powers delegated
to it pursuant to the Exchange Act and the regulations and rules promulgated thereunder.”
See DL Capital Group, LLC v. NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc., 409 F.3d 93, 97 (2d Cir.
2005) (quoting D’Alessio v. New York Stock Exchange, Inc., 258 F.3d 93, 106 (2d Cir.
2001)).

676

See 15 U.S.C. 78s(g).

218

with applicable federal securities laws and rules and regulations thereunder and the SCI entity’s
rules and governing documents, as applicable; and (6) review by regulatory personnel of SCI
systems design, changes, testing, and controls to prevent, detect, and address actions that do not
comply with applicable federal securities laws and rules and regulations thereunder and the SCI
entity’s rules and governing documents, as applicable. In the SCI Proposal, the Commission
asked whether each element of the proposed safe harbor for SCI entities was appropriate. 677
Several commenters addressed one or more of the proposed safe harbor elements.
As discussed above, rather than adopting the proposed safe harbor for SCI entities, the
Commission is specifying non-exhaustive, general minimum elements that an SCI entity must
include in its systems compliance policies and procedures. The minimum elements are based on
the proposed safe harbor. These elements are: (i) testing of all SCI systems and any changes to
SCI systems prior to implementation; (ii) a system of internal controls over changes to SCI
systems; (iii) a plan for assessments of the functionality of SCI systems designed to detect
systems compliance issues, including by responsible SCI personnel and by personnel familiar
with applicable provisions of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and the SCI
entity’s rules and governing documents; and (iv) a plan of coordination and communication
between regulatory and other personnel of the SCI entity, including by responsible SCI
personnel, regarding SCI systems design, changes, testing, and controls designed to detect and
prevent systems compliance issues. Each of these elements is discussed below.
As noted above, some commenters requested more guidance or certainty regarding the
safe harbor elements (e.g., by including bright-line tests and minimum standards). 678 As
677

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18116-17.

678

See supra notes 645-647 and accompanying text.
219

discussed above in Section IV.B.2.b, the Commission is not adopting a safe harbor but is
specifying the minimum elements that an SCI entity must include in its systems compliance
policies and procedures. By generally requiring policies and procedures to be reasonably
designed and specifying non-exhaustive, general minimum elements of systems compliance
policies and procedures, the Commission intends to provide specificity on how to comply with
Rule 1001(b), and at the same time provide a reasonable degree of flexibility to SCI entities in
establishing and maintaining policies and procedures that are appropriately tailored to each SCI
entity.
Regarding elements (1) and (2) of the proposed safe harbor, a few commenters opposed
the inclusion of a requirement that an SCI entity conduct periodic testing of systems absent
systems changes. 679 One commenter stated that it performs testing prior to implementation of
trading systems changes in the production environment and conducts regression testing to ensure
that the changes did not introduce any undesired side-effects. 680 This commenter explained that
the proposed periodic testing requirement would impose additional cost and not provide any
benefit. 681 One commenter believed that the pre- and post-implementation testing components
of the safe harbor, which would apply to all systems changes, could potentially drive SCI entities
to take a narrow view of what constitutes a systems change. 682 Another commenter sought

679

See FINRA Letter at 33; BATS Letter at 7; and ISE Letter at 7.

680

See ISE Letter at 7.

681

See id. See also FINRA Letter at 33.

682

See Direct Edge Letter at 6. This commenter expressed concern that, under the proposed
approach, any opening of a customer port, the removal of access rights from a departing
employee, and the previously unscheduled closing of the market for the death of a U.S.
president all involve “changes” to SCI systems that need to be tracked, approved, and
catalogued within the construct of an enterprise-wide change management system. See
id. This commenter stated that these “changes” cannot all be tested, either prior to or
220

further guidance from the Commission on the scope of periodic testing of all SCI systems and
whether, for example, systems testing would be required following a systems change if the SCI
entity has already provided notice of the systems change to the Commission. 683 One commenter
requested clarification that the testing described in proposed Rules 1000(b)(2)(ii)(A)(1) and (2)
refers to testing to ensure that SCI systems operate in the manner intended, and noted that testing
should not be required to be periodic, but instead should be based on the relative risks of noncompliance arising from any changes being introduced into production or any changes to the
applicable laws or rules. 684 One commenter stated that it believed that the frequency and type of
testing under proposed Rules 1000(b)(2)(ii)(A)(1) and (2) are open to interpretation. 685
After consideration of the views of commenters, the Commission believes that testing of
SCI systems and changes to such systems prior to implementation is appropriate for inclusion as
a required element of systems compliance policies and procedures. As noted in the SCI
Proposal, elements (1) and (2) of the proposed safe harbor were intended to help SCI entities to
identify potential problems before such problems have the ability to impact markets and
investors. 686 The Commission believes that testing prior to implementation of SCI systems and
prior to implementation of any SCI systems changes would likely be an important component for
achieving this goal and it is included as a required element of systems compliance policies and

after implementation, without an extraordinary amount of redundancy and bureaucracy, if
at all. See id. This commenter therefore suggested requiring instead “[a]ppropriate
testing of [SCI] systems and changes to such systems prior to their implementation.” See
id.
683

See OCC Letter at 11.

684

See MSRB Letter at 13-14.

685

See NYSE Letter at 30.

686

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18115.

221

procedures. 687 In contrast, the Commission believes that the value of the proposed element for
additional testing in the absence of systems changes may be variable, depending on the SCI
system or change to an SCI system at issue. 688 At the same time, each SCI entity should
consider on an ongoing basis what steps it needs to take in order to ensure that its policies and
procedures are reasonably designed, including whether its policies and procedures should
provide for testing of certain systems changes after their implementation to ensure that they
operate in compliance with the Exchange Act and relevant rules.
With regard to element (3) of the proposed safe harbor, one commenter stated that it is
unclear what minimum standards are required for the internal controls under proposed Rule
1000(b)(2)(ii)(A)(3). 689 As discussed above, the Commission believes it is appropriate to set
forth minimum elements of systems compliance policies and procedures that are broad enough to
provide SCI entities with reasonable flexibility to design their policies and procedures based on
687

With respect to a commenter’s concern that “changes” to SCI systems could include, for
example, any opening of a customer port, the removal of access rights from a departing
employee, and the previously unscheduled closing of the market for the death of a U.S.
president, the Commission does not view these as changes to an SCI entity’s systems,
because the Commission believes that these actions are part of an SCI entity’s standard
operations. See supra note 682. In particular, the Commission believes that the opening
of a customer port, the removal of access rights, and the closing of the market are existing
functionalities at SCI entities, and are routinely performed by SCI entities without the
need to change existing functionalities.

688

See supra notes 681-682 and accompanying text. The Commission notes that a
commenter asked about the scope of periodic testing under the proposed safe harbor, and
whether systems testing under the proposed safe harbor would be required following a
systems change if the SCI entity has already provided notice of the systems change to the
Commission. Another commenter noted that testing under the proposed safe harbor
should not be required to be periodic, but instead could be based on the relative risks of
non-compliance arising from any changes being introduced into production or any
changes to applicable laws or rules. The Commission is not requiring periodic testing or
testing following systems changes in Rule 1001(b), and, as discussed above, the
Commission is not adopting the proposed safe harbor.

689

See NYSE Letter at 30.

222

the nature, size, technology, business model, and other aspects of their businesses. Therefore,
while the Commission believes that a system of internal controls over changes to SCI systems is
appropriate for inclusion as a required element of systems compliance policies and procedures,
the Commission is not specifying the minimum standard for internal controls. As stated in the
SCI Proposal, a system of internal controls and ongoing monitoring of systems functionality are
intended to help ensure that an SCI entity adopts a framework that will help it bring newer,
faster, and more innovative SCI systems online without compromising due care, and to help
prevent SCI systems from becoming noncompliant resulting from, for example, inattention or
failure to review compliance with established written policies and procedures. The Commission
believes that such internal controls would likely include, for example, protocols that provide for:
communication and cooperation between legal, business, technology, and compliance
departments in an SCI entity; appropriate authorization of systems changes by relevant
departments of the SCI entity prior to implementation; review of systems changes by legal or
compliance departments prior to implementation; and monitoring of systems changes after
implementation.
With regard to elements (4)-(6) of the proposed safe harbor, one commenter noted that
the proposed requirement related to ongoing monitoring was too broad and should be eliminated
or revised to be more flexible.690 This commenter noted that the proposal for “monitoring of the
functionality of [SCI] systems to detect whether they are operating in the manner intended” is
potentially quite broad and seems to suggest some form of independent validation. 691 Another
commenter asked the Commission to clarify how the testing requirements in proposed Rules
690

See FINRA Letter at 33-34.

691

See id.

223

1000(b)(2)(ii)(1) and (2) (testing prior to and after implementation) differ from those in proposed
Rule 1000(b)(2)(ii)(A)(5) (assessments of systems compliance by personnel familiar with
applicable laws and rules). 692 One commenter noted that the monitoring, assessments, and
reviews under proposed Rules 1000(b)(2)(ii)(A)(4), (5), and (6) are unclear. 693 Two commenters
sought guidance on how an SCI entity could satisfy the requirements related to reviews and
assessments by legal and compliance personnel (i.e., proposed Rules 1000(b)(2)(ii)(A)(5) and
(6)). 694 One of these commenters suggested that each SCI entity be given the discretion to
determine the level of familiarity necessary to qualify as personnel able to undertake the
assessments and which personnel are regulatory personnel, and asked whether these two
categories of personnel are different. 695 Another commenter also sought clarification on the
meaning of the term “regulatory personnel” and suggested that each SCI entity should have
discretion in determining which of its employees constitute regulatory personnel. 696 One
commenter expressed concern that review by regulatory personnel of SCI systems would
unreasonably expose non-technology persons to potential liability if an SCI entity suffers a
malfunction. 697
After consideration of the views of commenters, the Commission believes that “a plan for
assessments of the functionality of SCI systems designed to detect systems compliance issues,
692

See MSRB Letter at 13.

693

See NYSE Letter at 30.

694

See FINRA Letter at 34-35; and MSRB Letter at 13.

695

See MSRB Letter at 13-14.

696

See OCC Letter at 11. See also FINRA Letter at 34-35 (requesting more guidance on
which types of personnel are intended to fulfill the requirements of proposed Rules
1000(b)(2)(ii)(A)(5) and (6)).

697

See ITG Letter at 14.

224

including by responsible SCI personnel and by personnel familiar with applicable provisions of
the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and the SCI entity’s rules and governing
documents” is appropriate for inclusion as a required element of systems compliance policies
and procedures. In particular, rather than “ongoing monitoring of the functionality of [SCI]
systems to detect whether they are operating in the manner intended” and also “assessments of
SCI systems compliance…,” the Commission believes that “a plan for assessments” of SCI
systems compliance would be more appropriate. 698 The Commission notes that “a plan for
assessments” could include, for example, not only a plan for monitoring, but also a plan for
testing or assessments, as appropriate, and at a frequency (e.g., periodic or continuous) that is
based on the SCI entity’s risk assessment of each of its SCI systems. 699 The Commission is not
specifying the manner and frequency of assessments that must be set forth in such plan because
the Commission believes that each SCI entity will likely be in the best position to assess and
determine the assessment plan that is most appropriate for its SCI systems. The Commission
emphasizes that the nature and frequency of the assessments contemplated by an SCI entity’s
plan will vary based on a range of factors, including the entity’s governance structure, business
698

The Commission notes that “a plan for assessments” is derived from a combination of the
“ongoing monitoring” and “assessments” elements of the proposed SCI entity safe
harbor. Because “a plan for assessments” could provide for ongoing (i.e., periodic or
continuous) monitoring, the Commission believes that it would be duplicative to include
both monitoring and a plan for assessments as required elements of systems compliance
policies and procedures.

699

See supra note 690 and accompanying text (discussing the view of a commenter that the
proposed element of the SCI entity safe harbor related to ongoing monitoring was too
broad and should be eliminated or revised to be more flexible) and supra note 694 and
accompanying text (discussing comments seeking guidance on how an SCI entity could
satisfy the requirements related to reviews and assessments by legal and compliance
personnel). Further, in response to a commenter, a plan for assessments is different from
the testing of SCI systems prior to implementation of systems changes. See supra note
692 and accompanying text.

225

lines, and legal and compliance framework. The plan for assessments does not require the SCI
entity to conduct a specific kind of assessment, nor does it require that assessments be performed
at a certain frequency. The plan, however, may address the specific reviews required by Rule
1003(b)(1).
In addition, in response to a commenter’s concern that the proposed safe harbor element
of “monitoring of the functionality of [SCI] systems to detect whether they are operating in the
manner intended” is potentially quite broad and seems to suggest some form of independent
validation, the Commission notes that it is not requiring SCI entities to include independent
validation in their assessment plans. 700 However, if an SCI entity determines that its reasonably
designed systems compliance policies and procedures should provide for independent validation
in its assessment plan under certain circumstances, then the SCI entity should design its policies
and procedures accordingly. In that case, pursuant to Rule 1001(b), which requires an SCI entity
to establish, maintain, and enforce its written policies and procedures, the SCI entity would be
required to enforce its own policies and procedures, including those related to independent
validation.
In addition, the Commission believes that “a plan of coordination and communication
between regulatory and other personnel of the SCI entity, including by responsible SCI
personnel, regarding SCI systems design, changes, testing, and controls designed to detect and
prevent systems compliance issues” is appropriate for inclusion as a required element of systems
compliance policies and procedures. As noted in the SCI Proposal, assessments of SCI systems
compliance by personnel familiar with applicable laws and rules and regulatory personnel review
of SCI systems design, changes, testing, and controls are intended to help foster coordination
700

See supra note 691 and accompanying text.

226

between the information technology and regulatory staff of an SCI entity so that SCI events and
other issues related to SCI systems would be more likely to be addressed by a team of staff in
possession of the requisite range of knowledge and skills.701 They are also intended to help
ensure that an SCI entity’s business interests do not undermine regulatory, surveillance, and
compliance functions and, more broadly, the requirements of the Exchange Act, during the
development, testing, implementation, and operation processes for SCI systems. 702 The
Commission believes that a plan of coordination and communication between regulatory and
other personnel, including by responsible SCI personnel, would further these same goals.
The Commission expects that an SCI entity will determine for itself the responsible SCI
personnel and other personnel who have sufficient knowledge of relevant laws and rules to be
able to effectively implement systems assessments, 703 such that the SCI entity’s policies and
procedures are reasonably designed to ensure that SCI systems operate in compliance with the
Exchange Act and relevant rules, as required by Rule 1001(b). 704 Similarly, the Commission
expects that an SCI entity will determine for itself the regulatory and other personnel, including
responsible SCI personnel, who have sufficient knowledge with respect to the legal and technical
aspects of systems design, changes, testing, and controls to engage in coordination and
communication regarding such operations, such that the SCI entity’s policies and procedures are

701

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18116.

702

For example, profit incentive could lead an SCI entity to introduce a new functionality
before regulatory personnel are able to adequately check that the functionality will
operate in compliance with relevant laws and rules.

703

See supra notes 694-696 and accompanying text (describing comments on the proposed
safe harbor related to who would be involved in systems assessments).

704

Criteria for identification of such personnel could, for example, be set forth in the SCI
entity’s systems compliance policies and procedures.

227

reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems operate in compliance with the Exchange Act
and relevant rules, as required by Rule 1001(b). 705
One commenter sought clarity on how an SCI entity would satisfy the requirement that it
does “not have reasonable cause to believe the policies and procedures were not being complied
with.” 706 Another commenter stated that there is no guidance for SCI entities on how to
appropriately follow the procedures that they have developed and stated that as proposed, it
would be reasonable to interpret the safe harbor as excluding any SCI entity that suffers a
significant systems event. 707 One commenter believed that the Commission should resolve any
potential ambiguity between the requirements of proposed Rule 1000(b)(2)(ii)(C)(1) (requiring
SCI entities to reasonably discharge the duties and obligations set forth in the policies and
procedures) and proposed Rule 1000(b)(2)(ii)(C)(2) (requiring that SCI entities not have
reasonable cause to believe such policies and procedures were not being complied with). 708 As
discussed throughout this section, the Commission is not adopting the proposed safe harbor for
SCI entities. Therefore, as adopted, Rule 1001(b) does not include the provisions of proposed
Rules 1000(b)(2)(ii)(B) and (C). Further, the Commission believes that proposed Rules
1000(b)(2)(ii)(B) and (C) reiterated the requirements for SCI entities to establish, maintain, and
enforce their systems compliance policies and procedures, and provided an example of how SCI
entities could satisfy these requirements. For example, the SCI Proposal noted that proposed

705

Some commenters expressed concern regarding the potential liability for regulatory
personnel. See supra note 697 and accompanying text. The Commission discusses
individual liability in Section IV.B.2.d below.

706

See FINRA Letter at 35.

707

See OTC Markets Letter at 15.

708

See MSRB Letter at 13-15.

228

Rules 1000(b)(2)(ii)(B) and (C) specified that an SCI entity’s policies and procedures must be
reasonably designed to achieve SCI systems compliance, and that, as part of such policies and
procedures, the SCI entity must establish and maintain systems for applying those policies and
procedures, and enforce its policies and procedures, in a manner that would reasonably allow it
to prevent and detect violations of the policies and procedures. 709 The Commission believes that
Rule 1001(b), as adopted, provides flexibility to SCI entities regarding their methods for
establishing, maintaining, and enforcing their systems compliance policies and procedures.
d.

Individual Safe Harbor

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(2)(iii) set forth a safe harbor for individuals. It provided that a
person employed by an SCI entity would be deemed not to have aided, abetted, counseled,
commanded, caused, induced, or procured the violation by any other person of proposed Rule
1000(b)(2)(i) if the person employed by the SCI entity has reasonably discharged the duties and
obligations incumbent upon such person by the policies and procedures, and was without
reasonable cause to believe that such policies and procedures were not being complied with in
any material respect.
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission asked whether commenters agreed with the
requirements of the proposed safe harbor for employees of SCI entities, and whether a similar
safe harbor should be available to individuals other than employees of SCI entities. 710 Some
commenters specifically addressed the proposed safe harbor for individuals. 711 Several
commenters urged that individuals not be subject to liability under Regulation SCI absent an

709

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18116.

710

See id. at 18117, question 103.

711

See, e.g., Angel Letter; Direct Edge Letter; FINRA Letter; FSR Letter; and MSRB Letter.

229

intentional act of willful misconduct. 712 Two commenters questioned the need for a safe harbor
for individuals generally, 713 and one commenter stated that inclusion of a safe harbor would
unnecessarily and severely limit the Commission’s ability to deter violations through meaningful
enforcement actions. 714 Two commenters questioned why the proposed safe harbor for

712

See Direct Edge Letter at 6; and MSRB Letter at 17. See also supra notes 650 and 654
and accompanying text (discussing comments suggesting individual safe harbors). One
commenter suggested that the safe harbor should provide that a person employed by an
SCI entity shall be deemed not to have aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, caused,
induced, or procured the violation by any other person unless such violation directly or
indirectly relates to the duties and obligations of such person under the policies and
procedures described in Rule 1000(b)(2)(i) and such person: (A) has not reasonably
discharged the applicable duty or obligation under such policies and procedures; (B) was
not directed by his or her supervisor, SCI entity legal counsel, SCI senior management, or
the governing body of the SCI entity to act in a manner that would constitute such a
failure to discharge such duty or obligation; and (C) acted recklessly or intentionally with
respect to such failure to discharge such duty or obligation. See MSRB Letter at 17. The
Commission believes that elements (A) and (B) of this commenter’s suggestion are
consistent with the adopted individual safe harbor. In particular, the Commission notes
that the safe harbor specifies that an individual must have reasonably discharged the
duties and obligations incumbent upon such person by the SCI entity’s policies and
procedures. The Commission believes that there can be instances where a person has
reasonably discharged his or her duties and obligations under the SCI entity’s policies
and procedures, even though such person was directed by his or her supervisor, SCI
entity legal counsel, SCI entity senior management, or the governing body of the SCI
entity to act in a manner that is inconsistent with his or her duties that are set forth the
policies and procedures. For example, the SCI entity’s reasonably designed policies and
procedures could specifically set forth circumstances where certain personnel of the SCI
entity may direct another person to act outside of his or her duties or obligations that are
set forth in the policies and procedures.

713

See FINRA Letter at 35; and FSR Letter at 3-8 (stating that the proposed rule lacks
clarity over why individuals need a safe harbor when the policies and procedures
requirement is placed exclusively on SCI entities, and lacks clarity regarding to whom
SCI entities or SCI personnel would be liable for a breach and how liability would be
apportioned between market participants for an SCI event). See also MSRB Letter at 15
(seeking further clarification from the Commission regarding the nature of the potential
liabilities faced by individuals).

714

See Better Markets Letter at 6.

230

individuals was limited to SCI entity employees. 715 One commenter expressed concern that the
proposed safe harbor for individuals could be counterproductive and create an environment of
second-guessing and distrust, where employees act in a way to avoid potential liability (i.e., each
person would be effectively deputized to police others’ actions). 716 A few commenters added
that the proposed safe harbor for individuals, and the resulting implication of potential individual
liability, may have the unintended consequence of limiting the ability of SCI entities to hire the
best available talent in information technology, risk-management, and compliance disciplines. 717
One commenter questioned why the proposed safe harbor for individuals would apply only to
actions of aiding any other person and not apply to any actions of the reporting individual. 718
After careful consideration of these comments, the Commission is adopting the individual
safe harbor with certain modifications. With respect to the commenter who expressed concern
that a safe harbor would “unnecessarily and severely” limit the Commission’s ability to deter
violations through meaningful enforcement actions, 719 the Commission notes that Regulation
SCI only imposes obligations directly on SCI entities and the Commission is not adopting a safe
harbor for SCI entities. Further, personnel of SCI entities qualify for the individual safe harbor

715

See FINRA Letter at 35; and MSRB Letter at 17. These commenters suggested
extending the safe harbor to contractors, consultants, and other non-employees used by
SCI entities in connection with their SCI systems. See FINRA Letter at 35; and MSRB
Letter at 17.

716

See MSRB Letter at 15-17.

717

See Direct Edge Letter at 6; and MSRB Letter at 17.

718

See Angel Letter at 4.

719

See supra note 714 and accompanying text.

231

under Rule 1001(b) only if they satisfy certain requirements. 720 In particular, in connection with
a Commission finding that an SCI entity violated Rule 1001(b), the individual safe harbor will
not apply if an SCI entity personnel failed to reasonably discharge his or her duties and
obligations under the policies and procedures. In addition, for an SCI entity personnel who is
responsible for or has supervisory responsibility over an SCI system, the individual safe harbor
also will not apply if he or she had reasonable cause to believe that the policies and procedures
related to such an SCI system were not in compliance with Rule 1001(b) in any material respect.
Therefore, the Commission does not believe that the individual safe harbor will “unnecessarily
and severely” limit the Commission’s ability to deter violations.
With respect to commenters who questioned the need for an individual safe harbor
because Rule 1001(b) imposes an obligation on SCI entities, 721 the Commission agrees that
Regulation SCI imposes direct obligations on SCI entities, and does not impose obligations
directly on personnel of SCI entities. At the same time, as with all other violations of the
Exchange Act and rules that impose obligations on an entity, there is a potential for secondary
liability for an individual who aided and abetted or caused a violation. The Commission is
therefore revising the individual safe harbor to clarify that personnel of an SCI entity shall be
deemed not to have aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, caused, induced, or procured the
violation by “an SCI entity” (rather than “any other person”) of Rule 1001(b) if the elements of
the safe harbor are satisfied.

720

As discussed below in this section, the Commission is extending the safe harbor to all
personnel of an SCI entity, rather than only persons employed by an SCI entity, as
proposed.

721

See supra note 713 and accompanying text.

232

As noted above, one commenter questioned why the proposed safe harbor for individuals
would only apply to actions of aiding another and not apply to any direct violative action of the
reporting individual. 722 The Commission notes that the individual safe harbor only applies to
actions of aiding, abetting, counseling, commanding, causing, inducing, or procuring the
violation by an SCI entity because Regulation SCI does not impose any direct obligations on
personnel of SCI entities. Therefore, individuals could not be found to be in violation of
Regulation SCI, except through aiding, abetting, counseling, commanding, causing, inducing, or
procuring the violation by an SCI entity of Regulation SCI.
With respect to commenters who suggested extending the individual safe harbor to
contractors, consultants, and other non-employees used by SCI entities in connection with their
SCI systems, 723 the Commission agrees with these comments and is extending the safe harbor to
all “personnel of an SCI entity,” rather than only persons employed by an SCI entity, as was
proposed. Specifically, the Commission believes that contractors, consultants, and other similar
non-employees may act in a capacity similar to an SCI entity’s employees, and thus should be
able to avail themselves of the individual safe harbor if they satisfy its requirements.
To be covered by the individual safe harbor, for which the individual has the burden of
proof, personnel of an SCI entity must: (i) have reasonably discharged the duties and obligations
incumbent upon such person by the SCI entity’s policies and procedures; and (ii) be without
reasonable cause to believe that the policies and procedures relating to an SCI system for which
such person was responsible, or had supervisory responsibility, were not established, maintained,
or enforced in accordance with Rule 1001(b) in any material respect. Element (i) of the adopted
722

See supra note 718 and accompanying text.

723

See supra note 715 and accompanying text.

233

individual safe harbor is substantively unchanged from the proposal. For the reasons discussed
below in this section, element (ii) of the adopted individual safe harbor specifies that it applies
only to a person who is responsible for or has supervisory responsibility over an SCI system. In
addition, rather than requiring an individual to be without reasonable cause to believe that
systems compliance policies and procedures “were not being complied with in any material
respect” as proposed, element (ii) of the adopted safe harbor requires the applicable personnel to
be without reasonable cause to believe that the relevant systems compliance policies and
procedures “were not established, maintained, or enforced” in accordance with Rule 1001(b) in
any material respect. The Commission notes that element (ii) of the adopted safe harbor tracks
the language of the general requirement under Rule 1001(b) that an SCI entity “establish,
maintain, and enforce” written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure systems
compliance, and appropriately reflects the responsibilities of a person who is responsible for or
has supervisory responsibility over an SCI system. 724
The Commission believes that it is appropriate to not provide a safe harbor to a person
with responsibility over an SCI system if such person had reasonable cause to believe that the
policies and procedures for such system were not established, maintained, or enforced as
required by Rule 1001(b) in a material respect. The limited application of this element to such
personnel (rather than to any person employed by an SCI entity as proposed) is intended to
mitigate commenters’ concerns that the proposed safe harbor would create an environment of

724

As noted below, the Commission believes it is appropriate in the context of the safe
harbor that, if a person with responsibility over an SCI system becomes aware of
potential material non-compliance of the SCI entity’s policies and procedures related to
that system, such person should take action to review and address, or direct other
personnel to review and address, such material non-compliance.

234

distrust and limit the ability of SCI entities to hire high quality personnel. 725 In particular,
personnel who are not responsible for and do not have supervisory responsibility over SCI
systems can qualify for the individual safe harbor, regardless of their belief regarding the
reasonableness of the SCI entity’s systems compliance policies and procedures. Therefore, such
personnel would not be “deputized to police” the actions of other personnel, as a commenter
believed they would. 726 Further, with respect to personnel who are responsible for or have
supervisory responsibility over an SCI system, such personnel likely already have the
responsibility to supervise others’ activities related to that SCI system, which would provide
such personnel with information to form a reasonable belief regarding the reasonableness of the
policies and procedures. Because Rule 1001(b) is intended to help prevent the occurrence of
systems compliance issues at SCI entities, the Commission believes that it is appropriate for
supervisory personnel to be knowledgeable regarding the entity’s policies and procedures
regarding systems compliance, which may be accomplished through training provided by the
SCI entity. Moreover, the Commission believes it is appropriate in the context of the safe harbor
that, if a person with responsibility over an SCI system becomes aware of potential material noncompliance of the SCI entity’s policies and procedures related to that system, such person should
take action to review and address, or direct other personnel to review and address, such material
non-compliance. Finally, to further mitigate commenters’ concern that potential individual
liability may limit the hiring ability of SCI entities, 727 as noted above, personnel of an SCI entity
will not be deemed to have aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, caused, induced, or procured

725

See supra notes 716-717 and accompanying text.

726

See supra note 716 and accompanying text.

727

See supra note 717 and accompanying text.

235

the violation by an SCI entity of Regulation SCI merely because the SCI entity experienced a
systems compliance issue, whether or not the person was able to take advantage of the individual
safe harbor.
As noted above, with respect to a personnel of an SCI entity who is not responsible for
and does not have supervisory responsibility over SCI systems, the safe harbor provides that
such personnel shall be deemed not to have aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, caused,
induced, or procured the violation by an SCI entity of Rule 1001(b) if such person has
reasonably discharged the duties and obligations incumbent upon him or her by the systems
compliance policies and procedures. Therefore, unlike personnel who are responsible for or
have supervisory responsibility over SCI systems, these persons would not be liable even if the
SCI entity itself did not have reasonably designed systems compliance policies and procedures or
did not enforce its policies and procedures, as long as they discharged their duties and
obligations under the policies and procedures in a reasonable manner. 728 The Commission
believes this safe harbor is appropriate because the persons who will seek to rely on this safe
harbor are those who do not have responsibility for the establishment, maintenance, and
enforcement of the policies and procedures, or the actions of other personnel of the SCI entity.
With respect to commenters who argued that individuals should not be subject to liability
under Regulation SCI absent an intentional act of willful misconduct, 729 the Commission notes
again that Regulation SCI imposes direct obligations only on SCI entities, and not on individuals.

728

The Commission believes that, in order for a person to reasonably discharge his duties
and obligations under the SCI entity’s policies and procedures, that person must be able
to understand his duties and obligations under such policies and procedures, which may
be accomplished through training provided by the SCI entity.

729

See supra note 712 and accompanying text.

236

However, as with all other violations of provisions of the Exchange Act and rules that impose
obligations on an entity, there is a potential for secondary liability for an individual who aided
and abetted or caused a violation. As discussed above in the context of SCI entities, all SCI
entities are required to comply with the Exchange Act, the rules and regulations thereunder, and
their own rules and governing documents, as applicable, and the purpose of Rule 1001(b) is to
effectively help ensure compliance of the operation of SCI systems with the Exchange Act, the
rules and regulations thereunder, and their own rules and governing documents. The
Commission does not believe that the rule would further this goal to the same degree if the
Commission adopts commenters’ suggestions for the individual safe harbor (i.e., personnel of an
SCI entity are permitted to cause an SCI entity to be out of compliance with Rule 1001(b) so
long as the personnel did not act intentionally or willfully).
3.

SCI Events: Corrective Action; Commission Notification;
Dissemination of Information – Rule 1002

Adopted Rule 1002, which corresponds to proposed Rules 1000(b)(3)-(5), requires an
SCI entity to take corrective action, notify the Commission, and disseminate information
regarding certain SCI events.
a.

Triggering Standard

As proposed, the obligation of an SCI entity to take corrective action (proposed Rule
1000(b)(3)), notify the Commission (proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)), and disseminate information
(proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)) would have been triggered upon “any responsible SCI personnel
becoming aware of” an SCI event. 730 Proposed Rule 1000(a) defined “responsible SCI
personnel” to mean, for a particular SCI system or SCI security system impacted by an SCI

730

See proposed Rules 1000(b)(3), 1000(b)(4)(i)-(ii), and 1000(b)(5)(i)-(ii).

237

event, any personnel, whether an employee or agent, of an SCI entity having responsibility for
such system. 731 In the SCI Proposal, the Commission noted that this proposed definition was
intended to include any personnel of the SCI entity having responsibility for the specific
system(s) impacted by a given SCI event. 732 The Commission stated that such personnel would
include any technology, business, or operations staff with responsibility for such systems, and
with respect to systems compliance issues, any regulatory, legal, or compliance personnel with
legal or compliance responsibility for such systems. 733 The Commission also explained that
“responsible SCI personnel” would not be limited to managerial or senior-level employees of the
SCI entity and could include junior personnel with responsibility for a particular system. 734
After considering the views of commenters, the Commission is modifying the proposed
standard for triggering corrective action, Commission notification, and dissemination of
information obligations in adopted Rule 1002, including by amending the definition of
responsible SCI personnel, as discussed below.
Responsible SCI Personnel
Many commenters expressed concern that the proposed definition of responsible SCI
personnel was too broad. 735 These commenters generally urged the Commission to revise the
scope of the definition to cover only those employees in management or supervisory roles that
731

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.C.3.a.

732

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18118.

733

See id.

734

See id.

735

See, e.g., Omgeo Letter at 13; MSRB Letter at 6; BATS Letter at 8; Liquidnet Letter at 3;
CME Letter at 7; OCC Letter at 12; Joint SROs Letter at 12; FINRA Letter at 25-26; and
OTC Markets Letter at 19. See also NYSE Letter at 19 (stating that the proposed
definition was too vague and suggesting an alternative approach). See also infra note 761
and accompanying text.

238

have responsibility over an SCI system, rather than including relatively junior or inexperienced
employees. 736 Some of these commenters stated that junior employees and/or technology
personnel may not have the training or breadth of knowledge or experience necessary to identify,
analyze, and determine whether a systems issue is an SCI event under the rule. 737 Similarly, one
commenter advocated limiting responsible SCI personnel to employees with full knowledge and
authority over a system. 738 Some commenters also suggested that SCI entities should have the
discretion to decide which employees are responsible SCI personnel. 739
Similarly, several commenters emphasized the importance of escalation policies and
procedures, pursuant to which technology staff or junior employees could assess a systems
problem and escalate the issue up the chain of command to management as well as legal and/or
compliance personnel, who will help determine whether a systems issue was an SCI event and
whether the obligations under Regulation SCI are triggered. 740 These commenters argued that
the rule should allow entities to adopt and follow such escalation procedures rather than
triggering the obligations under Regulation SCI upon one employee’s awareness of a systems

736

See, e.g., Omgeo Letter at 13; MSRB Letter at 6, 18; NYSE Letter at 19; BATS Letter at
8; Liquidnet Letter at 3; CME Letter at 7; OCC Letter at 12; Joint SROs Letter at 12;
FINRA Letter at 25-26; and OTC Markets Letter at 19. Similarly, with regard to the
Commission notification requirement in proposed Rule 1000(b)(4), one commenter stated
that the obligation to notify the Commission should only be triggered when the
responsible SCI personnel notifies the officer or senior staff responsible for the SCI
system or systems generally. See DTCC Letter at 9.

737

See, e.g., OCC Letter at 12; FINRA Letter at 25-26; and OTC Markets Letter at 19.

738

See FIF Letter at 3, 5.

739

See, e.g., Liquidnet Letter at 3; NYSE Letter at 19; and Joint SROs Letter at 12.

740

See, e.g., OCC Letter at 12; FINRA Letter at 25-26; Omgeo Letter at 13; FIF Letter at 5;
and NYSE Letter at 19-20.

239

issue. 741 One commenter also asserted that limiting the definition of responsible SCI personnel
would be appropriate if the Commission also required a robust escalation procedure. 742
Some commenters also expressed concern about the potential liability that responsible
SCI personnel could face if the rule were adopted as proposed, given the breadth of the definition
of “responsible SCI personnel.” 743 Specifically, commenters asserted that, as a result of
including junior and information technology personnel within the definition and the potential
liability of such individuals, the proposed provision would make it more difficult for SCI entities
to attract and retain high quality information technology employees. 744 Another commenter
noted that responsible operations or technical personnel may not be in a position to make legal
determinations about when a compliance issue has arisen. 745
After consideration of the views of commenters, the Commission has revised the term
“responsible SCI personnel” to mean, “for a particular SCI system or indirect SCI system
impacted by an SCI event, such senior manager(s) of the SCI entity having responsibility for
such system, and their designee(s).” 746 The Commission agrees that the proposed definition of
responsible SCI personnel was broad and, consistent with the views of some commenters,
741

See, e.g., OCC Letter at 12; FINRA Letter at 25-26; Omgeo Letter at 13; FIF Letter at 5;
and NYSE Letter at 19-20.

742

See FIF Letter at 5.

743

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 19; BATS Letter at 8; Joint SROs Letter at 13; and OTC
Markets Letter at 18. See also supra note 717.

744

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 19; BATS Letter at 8; Joint SROs Letter at 13; and OTC
Markets Letter at 18. These commenters therefore recommended that the definition
include only senior personnel who would more appropriately be responsible for making a
determination as to whether an SCI event had occurred given their knowledge and
authority.

745

See Omgeo Letter at 13.

746

See adopted Rule 1000.

240

believes that it is appropriate to instead focus the adopted definition on senior personnel of SCI
entities that have responsibility for a particular system. 747 The Commission believes that
adopting a more focused definition of responsible SCI personnel to include only senior managers
having responsibility for a given system (and their designees) addresses commenters’ concerns
that the obligations of the rule could have been triggered upon the awareness of junior or
inexperienced employees who lack the knowledge or experience to be able to make a
determination regarding whether an SCI event had, in fact, occurred. 748 The Commission
believes that the revised definition is a better approach than the proposed definition because,
consistent with suggestions from some commenters, it will appropriately allow SCI entities to
adopt procedures that would require personnel of an SCI entity to escalate a systems issue to
senior individuals who are responsible for a particular system and who have the ability and
authority to appropriately analyze and assess the issue affecting the SCI system or indirect SCI
system, and their designees, as applicable. 749
The Commission also notes that, consistent with some commenters’ recommendations,
under the adopted rule, SCI entities will be afforded flexibility to determine which personnel to
designate as “responsible SCI personnel.” 750 Specifically, SCI entities will need to affirmatively
identify one or more senior managers that have responsibility for each of its SCI systems or

747

See generally supra notes 735-738 and accompanying text.

748

See supra notes 736-737. See also note 738 and accompanying text.

749

See supra Section IV.B.1.b (discussing Rule 1001(a)(1)(2)(vii), which requires an SCI
entity to have policies and procedures to provide for monitoring of SCI systems, and
indirect SCI systems, as applicable, to identify potential SCI events, and escalate them to
responsible SCI personnel); and infra notes 758-761 and accompanying text.

750

See supra note 739 and accompanying text.

241

indirect SCI systems. 751 In addition, the Commission notes that the definition of responsible SCI
personnel affords SCI entities with the flexibility to designate one or more other personnel as
designees for a given system. 752 The Commission believes that it is important to include
designees within the definition of responsible SCI personnel to provide an SCI entity with the
flexibility that it may need, and which the Commission believes is necessary, given the varying
sizes, natures, and complexities of each SCI entity. A senior manager may name a designee (or
designees) who would also have responsibility for a given system with regard to Regulation SCI,
for example, if the senior manager is absent, is occupied with other oversight responsibilities for
a period of time, or because of other practical limitations, is otherwise unavailable to assess the
SCI entity’s obligations under Regulation SCI at a given point in time. The Commission
believes it is likely that the designation of a designee and such designee’s particular
responsibilities with regard to an SCI system or indirect SCI system would be addressed by an
SCI entity’s policies and procedures, as discussed below. However, the Commission notes that
while the definition of “responsible SCI personnel” does not permit the senior manager having
responsibility for an applicable system to disclaim responsibility under the rule by delegating it
fully to one or more designees (i.e., the adopted rule reads “and their designees” rather than “or
their designees”), it may assist SCI entities in fulfilling their responsibilities under Regulation
SCI by allowing them to delegate to personnel other than senior managers such that those
designees can also serve in the role of responsible SCI personnel.

751

See Rule 1001(c).

752

The Commission notes that the rules do not, however, require SCI entities to have
designees. Rather, each SCI entity has the discretion to have designees if they choose to
do so.

242

The Commission further believes that the modifications to the definition addresses some
commenters’ concerns regarding the potential liability of junior SCI personnel, as the obligations
of the rule are now triggered only when senior managers, rather than junior employees, having
responsibility for a particular system have a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has
occurred. 753 Further, the Commission reiterates that Regulation SCI imposes direct obligations
on SCI entities and does not impose obligations directly on personnel of SCI entities. For these
reasons, the Commission believes that an SCI entity’s ability to attract and retain employees
should not be negatively affected by the requirements of Regulation SCI, as adopted. 754 The
Commission also reiterates that the occurrence of an SCI event may be probative, but is not
determinative of whether an SCI entity violated Regulation SCI. 755
In light of the more focused definition of responsible SCI personnel and consistent with
commenters’ suggestions, 756 the Commission believes it is appropriate to also adopt a policies
and procedures requirement with respect to the designation of responsible SCI personnel and
escalation procedures. As discussed above, many commenters highlighted the importance of
escalation procedures and advocated for their use as an alternative to the adoption of a broader

753

See supra notes 743-744 and accompanying text.

754

See supra notes 721 and 743-744 and accompanying text. The Commission notes that
commenters’ concerns regarding potential liability of employees were related to the
scope of the proposed definition of responsible SCI personnel and the effect on the hiring
and retention of junior and information technology personnel. Commenters believed that
the definition should instead focus on senior managers who could appropriately be held
responsible given their responsibilities and authority to take necessary actions under the
rule.

755

See, e.g., supra notes 470 and 627 and accompanying text.

756

See supra notes 740-742 and accompanying text and infra notes 759-761 and
accompanying text.

243

definition of responsible SCI personnel. 757 Specifically, the Commission is adopting Rule
1001(c), which requires each SCI entity to “[e]stablish, maintain, and enforce reasonably
designed written policies and procedures that include the criteria for identifying responsible SCI
personnel, the designation and documentation of responsible SCI personnel, and escalation
procedures to quickly inform responsible SCI personnel of potential SCI events.” The
Commission believes that it is important for an SCI entity’s policies and procedures to have a
defined set of criteria for identifying responsible SCI personnel so that such personnel are
identified in a consistent manner across all of an SCI entity’s operations and with regard to all of
its SCI systems and indirect SCI systems. The Commission believes that SCI entities are best
suited to establish the appropriate criteria for such a designation but notes that such criteria could
include, for example, consideration of the level of knowledge, skills, and authority necessary to
take the required actions under the rules. The Commission also believes it is important for
policies and procedures to include the designation and documentation of responsible SCI
personnel, so that it is clear to all employees of the SCI entity who the designated responsible
SCI personnel are for purposes of the escalation procedures and so that Commission staff can
easily identify such responsible SCI personnel in the course of its inspections and examinations
and other interactions with SCI entities. The Commission also believes that, given the more
focused definition of responsible SCI personnel, escalation procedures to quickly inform
responsible SCI personnel of potential SCI events are necessary to help ensure that the
appropriate person(s) are provided notice of potential SCI events so that any appropriate actions
can be taken in accordance with the requirements of Regulation SCI without unnecessary delay.
Such escalation procedures would establish the means by which, and actions required for,
757

See supra notes 740-742 and accompanying text.

244

escalating information regarding a systems issue that may be an SCI event up the chain of
command to the responsible SCI personnel, who will be responsible for determining whether an
SCI event has occurred and what resulting obligations may be triggered. The Commission notes
that each SCI entity may establish escalation procedures that conform to its needs, organization
structure, and size. By requiring that responsible SCI personnel are “quickly inform[ed]” of
potential SCI events, the Commission intends to require that escalation procedures emphasize
promptness and ensure that responsible SCI personnel are informed of potential SCI events
without delay. At the same time, the rule does not prescribe a specific time requirement in order
to give flexibility to SCI entities in recognition that immediate notification may not be possible
or feasible. Further, similar to adopted Rules 1001(a) and 1001(b), Rule 1001(c) requires that an
SCI entity periodically review the effectiveness of the policies and procedures related to
responsible SCI personnel, and to take prompt action to remedy deficiencies in such policies and
procedures.
Becomes Aware
Several commenters criticized the proposed requirement that certain obligations under
Regulation SCI be triggered when a responsible SCI personnel “becomes aware” of an SCI
event. Some commenters stated that the standard was vague and lacked clarity regarding when,
exactly, responsible SCI personnel would be deemed to become aware of an SCI event. 758
Further, some commenters noted that the “becomes aware” standard emphasized immediate
action over methodical escalation, diagnosis, and resolution procedures. 759 As noted above,

758

See, e.g., BATS Letter at 8-9; NYSE Letter at 19; and Joint SROs Letter at 12.

759

See Joint SROs Letter at 3, 9, and 12. See also OCC Letter at 12; FINRA Letter at 25-26;
Omgeo Letter at 13; FIF Letter at 5; and NYSE Letter at 19-20.

245

several commenters emphasized the importance of escalation policies and procedures, and
argued that the rule should allow entities to adopt and follow such escalation procedures rather
than triggering the obligations under Regulation SCI upon one employee’s awareness of a
systems issue. 760 Another commenter suggested specific revisions to the triggering standard so
that the phrase “responsible SCI personnel becoming aware” would be eliminated entirely and
replaced with “SCI entity having a reasonable basis to conclude,” which it believed would allow
for escalation through a normal chain of command. 761
With regard to the Commission notification requirements specifically, 762 one commenter
suggested that SCI entities should only be required to notify the Commission “upon confirming
the existence of an SCI event,” 763 while another commenter stated that the rule should require
notification to the Commission as soon as reasonably practicable after responsible personnel
becomes aware of the SCI event. 764 Similarly, one commenter believed that the “becomes
aware” standard was problematic because it would require notification before an SCI entity has
accurate information upon which to act. 765
After consideration of the views of commenters, the Commission has determined to
revise the triggering standard so that SCI entities will be required to comply with the obligations
of adopted Rule 1002 upon responsible SCI personnel having “a reasonable basis to conclude”
760

See supra notes 740-742 and accompanying text.

761

See NYSE Letter at 19.

762

See infra Section IV.B.3.c (discussing the Commission notification requirement for SCI
events).

763

See Direct Edge Letter at 8.

764

See Omgeo Letter at 17.

765

See FIF Letter at 5 (urging that notification be required when “accurate and actionable”
information is provided to responsible SCI personnel). See also BATS Letter at 9.

246

that an SCI event has occurred, as suggested by a commenter. 766 This standard permits an SCI
entity to gather relevant information and perform an initial analysis and assessment as to whether
a systems issue may be an SCI event, rather than requiring an SCI entity to take corrective
action, notify the Commission, and/or disseminate information about an SCI event immediately
upon responsible SCI personnel becoming aware of an SCI event. 767 Thus, the Commission
believes that the “reasonable basis to conclude” standard should provide some additional
flexibility and time for judgment to determine whether there is a “reasonable basis to conclude”
in contrast to the “becomes aware” standard which many commenters noted would be difficult to
apply in practice due to the difficulty of determining when an individual, in fact, “becomes
aware” of an SCI event. 768 Further, the Commission believes that, consistent with commenters’
recommendations, the revised standard, in conjunction with the revised definition of “responsible
SCI personnel,” will allow an SCI entity to adopt and follow its internal escalation policies and
procedures to inform senior SCI entity personnel of systems issues, and allow meaningful
assessment of the issues by such senior management prior to triggering obligations of the rule. 769

766

See adopted Rules 1002(a), (b), and (c). See also supra note 761.

767

See supra notes 759 and 763-765 and accompanying text. Additionally, the Commission
does not agree with the commenter who stated that notification should be required only as
soon as reasonably practicable after responsible personnel become aware of an SCI event
because that standard would unnecessarily delay the requirement for an SCI entity to take
necessary actions under the rule and the Commission’s knowledge of an SCI event. See
supra note 764.

768

See supra note 758 and accompanying text.

769

See supra notes 758-760 and accompanying text. The Commission believes that the
adopted standard similarly allows for escalation of a systems issue to senior officials
because the Commission believes that having “a reasonable basis to conclude” is a good
indication that an SCI event has likely occurred and does not require that the responsible
SCI personnel come to a definitive conclusion, which would cause unnecessary delay in
taking the actions required by Regulation SCI. Rather, once responsible SCI personnel
have a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred, the Commission
247

At the same time, the Commission believes that the obligations of the rule will continue to be
triggered in a timely manner because the Commission is adopting a separate requirement in Rule
1001(c), as noted above, for escalation procedures to quickly inform responsible SCI personnel
of potential SCI events.
b.

Corrective Action – Rule 1002(a)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(3) required an SCI entity, upon any responsible SCI personnel
becoming aware of an SCI event, to begin to take appropriate corrective action including, at a
minimum, mitigating potential harm to investors and market integrity resulting from the SCI
event and devoting adequate resources to remedy the SCI event as soon as reasonably
practicable. 770 The corrective action requirement is being adopted substantially as proposed, but
with the triggering standard modified as discussed above. 771

believes that an SCI entity should begin to take corrective action, provide notice to the
Commission, and/or disclose such event, as applicable, because these requirements are
designed to ensure that the SCI entity begins to take action in a timely fashion to mitigate
potential harm arising from the incident and that the Commission and relevant market
participants are kept apprised of an SCI event even where a definitive conclusion is not
yet available. The Commission does not agree with the commenter that it should apply
the triggering standard only to the SCI entity rather than responsible SCI personnel. The
Commission notes, as discussed above, that the adopted definition of responsible SCI
personnel imposes obligations only upon the senior personnel of an SCI entity that have
responsibility for a particular system. Additionally, the Commission believes that it is
important to apply the triggering standard to responsible SCI personnel rather than to the
SCI entity because, when combined with an SCI entity’s policies and procedures with
respect to the designation of responsible SCI personnel and escalation and monitoring
procedures, the triggering standard is designed to ensure that senior managers are
provided notice of potential SCI events so that any appropriate actions can be taken in
accordance with the requirements of Regulation SCI without unnecessary delay.
770

See proposed Rule 1000(b)(3) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18117.

771

See supra Section IV.B.3.a (discussing the triggering standard).

248

Two commenters supported the corrective action provision generally. 772 Several
commenters stated that the proposed requirement put too great an emphasis on immediately
taking corrective action at the expense of thoroughly analyzing the SCI event and its cause,
considering potential remedies, and/or acting in accordance with internal policies and procedures
before committing to a plan to take corrective action. 773 One group of commenters suggested
that the rule should make clear that “corrective action” should also include a variety of other
potential actions, such as communicating with responsible parties, diagnosing the root cause,
disclosing to members and the public, and mitigating potential harm by following their policies
and procedures. 774 Another commenter stated that, in certain circumstances, it is “aggressive to
presume that one individual’s knowledge should prompt an immediate response by the SCI
[e]ntity at large.” 775 This commenter further stated that a standard requiring an SCI entity to
mitigate potential harm to investors is extremely vague. 776
As adopted, Rule 1002(a) requires an SCI entity, upon any responsible SCI personnel
having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred, to begin to take
appropriate corrective action including, at a minimum, mitigating potential harm to investors and
market integrity resulting from the SCI event and devoting adequate resources to remedy the SCI
event as soon as reasonably practicable. The Commission continues to believe that this
provision of Regulation SCI is important to make clear that each SCI entity has the obligation to

772

See MSRB Letter at 17 and DTCC Letter at 9-10.

773

See SIFMA Letter at 3; OCC Letter at 14; Joint SROs Letter at 11; LiquidPoint Letter at
4; DTCC Letter at 10; and Direct Edge Letter at 7.

774

See Joint SROs at 11.

775

See Direct Edge Letter at 7.

776

Id.

249

respond to SCI events with appropriate steps necessary to remedy the problem or problems
causing such SCI event and mitigate the negative effects of the SCI event, if any, on market
participants and the securities markets more broadly. As discussed below, the specific steps that
an SCI entity will need to take to mitigate the harm will be dependent on the particular systems
issue, its causes, and the estimated impact of the event, among other factors. To the extent that a
systems issue affects not only the particular users of an SCI system, but also has a more
widespread impact on the market generally, as may be likely with regard to systems issues
affecting critical SCI systems, the SCI entity will need to consider how it might mitigate any
potential harm to the overall market to help ensure market integrity. For example, an SCI entity
would need to take steps to regain a system’s ability to process transactions in an accurate,
timely, and efficient manner, or to ensure the accurate, timely, and efficient collection,
processing, and dissemination of market data.
As noted above, many of the comments on this requirement are related to the standard for
triggering the obligation to take corrective action under this provision, namely “upon any SCI
responsible personnel becoming aware of” an SCI event. As discussed above, the Commission
has further focused the scope of the term “responsible SCI personnel” in response to
commenters’ concerns that the term was too broad and could inappropriately capture junior
and/or inexperienced employees. Further, as discussed above, the Commission has revised the
“becomes aware” standard to instead trigger obligations when responsible personnel have “a
reasonable basis to conclude” an SCI event has occurred. As explained above, the Commission
believes that these important modifications are responsive to commenters’ concerns that the
corrective action requirement could be triggered upon the knowledge of only one individual or a
junior employee of a systems issue without sufficient time to analyze and assess the systems

250

problem and follow internal escalation procedures. Under the adopted standard, only when (i)
suspected systems problems are escalated to senior managers of the SCI entity who have
responsibility for the SCI system or indirect SCI system experiencing an SCI event and their
designees, and (ii) such personnel have “a reasonable basis to conclude” that an SCI event has
occurred are the appropriate corrective actions required by Rule 1002(a) triggered.
Further, in response to commenters who stated that the proposed rule places too large an
emphasis on immediate corrective action, 777 in addition to the modifications noted above which
are intended to allow for appropriate time for an SCI entity to perform an initial analysis and
preliminary investigation into a potential systems issue before the obligations under Rule 1002(a)
are triggered, the Commission notes that it does not use the term “immediate” in either the
proposed or adopted rules. Rather, the Commission emphasizes that the rule requires that
corrective action be taken “as soon as reasonably practicable” once the triggering standard has
been met. The Commission believes that, because the facts and circumstances of each specific
SCI event will be different, this standard ensures that an SCI entity will take necessary corrective
action soon after an SCI event, but not without sufficient time to first consider what is the
appropriate action to remedy the SCI event in a particular situation and how such action should
be implemented.
Moreover, the Commission has considered the comment that the rule prescribe in more
specificity the particular types of corrective action that must be taken by an SCI entity and
believes that it is appropriate to adopt, as proposed, a rule that requires more generally that
“appropriate” corrective action be taken and requires that, at a minimum, the SCI entity take
appropriate steps to mitigate potential harm to investors and market integrity resulting from the
777

See supra notes 773-775 and accompanying text.

251

SCI event and devote adequate resources to remedy the SCI event. The Commission notes that
the rule is designed to afford flexibility to SCI entities in determining how to best respond to a
particular SCI event in order to remedy the problem causing the SCI event and mitigate its
effects. As a general matter, though, the Commission agrees that such corrective action would
likely include a variety of actions, such as those identified by one group of commenters,
including determining the scope of the SCI event and its causes, making a determination
regarding its known and anticipated impact, following adequate internal diagnosis and resolution
policies and procedures, and taking additional action to respond as each SCI entity deems
appropriate. 778 The Commission also notes that certain other specific types of corrective action
identified by such commenters are already required by other provisions of Regulation SCI, such
as communicating and escalating the issue to responsible personnel and making appropriate
disclosures to members or participants regarding the SCI event. 779
c.

Commission Notification – Rule 1002(b)
i.

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(4) addressed the Commission notification obligations of an SCI
entity upon any responsible SCI personnel becoming aware of an SCI event. 780 Specifically,
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i) required an SCI entity, upon any responsible SCI personnel
becoming aware of a systems disruption that the SCI entity reasonably estimated would have a
material impact on its operations or on market participants, any systems compliance issue, or any
778

See supra note 774 and accompanying text.

779

See adopted Rule 1001(c) (requiring policies and procedures that include, among other
things, escalation procedures to quickly inform responsible SCI personnel of potential
SCI events) and Rule 1002(c) (requiring dissemination of information regarding SCI
events).

780

See proposed Rule 1000(b)(4) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.C.3.b.

252

systems intrusion (“immediate notification SCI event”), to notify the Commission of such SCI
event, which could be done orally or in writing (e.g., by email). Proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii)
required an SCI entity to submit a written notification pertaining to any SCI event to the
Commission within 24 hours of any responsible SCI personnel becoming aware of the SCI event.
Proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iii) required an SCI entity to submit to the Commission continuing
written updates on a regular basis, or at such frequency as reasonably requested by a
representative of the Commission, until such time as the SCI event was resolved.
Proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iv) detailed the types of information that was required for
written notifications under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4). 781 In addition, proposed Rule
1000(b)(4)(iv)(C) required an SCI entity to provide a copy of any information disseminated
regarding the SCI event to its members or participants or on the SCI entity’s publicly available
website.

781

Specifically, the SCI Proposal required written notifications and updates to be made
electronically and required initial written notifications to include all pertinent information
known about an SCI event, including: (1) a detailed description of the SCI event; (2) the
SCI entity’s current assessment of the types and number of market participants
potentially affected by the SCI event; (3) the potential impact of the SCI event on the
market; and (4) the SCI entity’s current assessment of the SCI event, including a
discussion of the SCI entity’s determination regarding whether the SCI event was a
dissemination SCI event or not. In addition, as proposed, to the extent available as of the
time of the initial notification, Exhibit 1 to Form SCI would have required inclusion of
the following information: (1) a description of the steps the SCI entity was taking, or
planned to take, with respect to the SCI event; (2) the time the SCI event was resolved or
timeframe within which the SCI event was expected to be resolved; (3) a description of
the SCI entity’s rule(s) and/or governing documents, as applicable, that related to the SCI
event; and (4) an analysis of the parties that may have experienced a loss, whether
monetary or otherwise, due to the SCI event, the number of such parties, and an estimate
of the aggregate amount of such loss. See proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iv)(A).

253

As described below, adopted Rule 1002(b) retains the general framework of proposed
Rule 1000(b)(4) for Commission notification of SCI events, but makes several modifications in
response to comments.
Comments Regarding Commission Notification of SCI Events
One commenter generally supported proposed Rule 1000(b)(4), stating that it would
enhance transparency and might allow the Commission to see patterns in small, seemingly nonmaterial SCI events that are worthy of attention. 782 However, many other commenters expressed
concerns about proposed Rule 1000(b)(4). 783 Many of these commenters stated that the scope of
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4) was too broad, and that the notification requirement would lead to
over-reporting to the Commission.784 Commenters also suggested various ways to revise the
reporting requirement. For example, several commenters recommended requiring notification to
the Commission only for “material” or “significant” events. 785 For example, one commenter
recommended reporting most SCI events as part of the annual SCI review process, while

782

See Lauer Letter at 6. The Commission also notes that, although many other commenters
expressed reservations with proposed Rule 1000(b)(4), many of these commenters also
expressed their general support for a notification rule that is more limited in scope. See,
e.g., ITG Letter at 12 (stating that a reduction in notifications would result in lower costs,
reduce the over-reporting of events, and allow the Commission to focus on events that
warrant review); and FINRA Letter at 18 (“FINRA fully supports the Commission’s goal
of ensuring that Commission staff is informed of events that could potentially impact the
market”).

783

See, e.g. NYSE Letter at 21; BATS Letter at 12-13; ITG Letter at 12; FINRA Letter at
16-17; Omgeo Letter at 16; SIFMA Letter at 13; ISE Letter at 6; OCC Letter at 11; and
CME Letter at 9.

784

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 22; Omgeo Letter at 16; SIFMA Letter at 14; ISE Letter at 6;
and OCC Letter at 12.

785

See, e.g., ITG Letter at 12; CME Letter at 9; DTCC Letter at 8; and Omgeo Letter at 15.

254

focusing Commission notification on material SCI events. 786 Similarly, another commenter
suggested that SCI entities should only be required to report information relating to “impactful”
systems disruptions in an annual report to the Commission rather than in near real time
reports. 787 Another commenter recommended requiring notification only for systems issues that
warrant notification to an SCI entity’s subscribers or participants. 788 Some commenters
recommended a risk-based approach under which each SCI event would be subject to a riskbased assessment, in which the obligation to notify the Commission would be based on the
attendant risk, with only material events requiring notification. 789
Commenters also identified potential problems resulting from a notification requirement
that they perceived as too broad. For example, one commenter stated that the notification
requirements have the potential to create efficiency issues, delay system remediation, create
substantial resource demands, and create instability, which would diminish an SCI entity’s
ability to be responsive to investors and damage market efficiency. 790 Similarly, several
commenters stated that the proposed Commission notification provision would require SCI
entities to divert resources to comply with the requirement which, in turn, would risk delaying
resolution of the SCI event that is being reported on. 791 Other commenters suggested that the
786

See FIF Letter at 4.

787

See BATS Letter at 10.

788

See OTC Markets Letter at 19 (stating that the notification requirement to the
Commission should be aligned with the current industry practice of notifying SCI
entities’ subscribers of material events, explaining that competitive forces motivate
entities to promptly notify subscribers about significant issues).

789

See, e.g., OCC Letter at 13; SIFMA Letter at 13; Omgeo Letter at 1; FINRA Letter at 14;
and NYSE Letter at 25.

790

See UBS Letter at 3.

791

See Omgeo Letter at 16; MSRB Letter at 19; and OCC Letter at 14.

255

proposed rule would result in large volumes of data and reporting, which would present
challenges to, and burdens on, SCI entities as well as Commission staff. 792 One commenter also
questioned the extent to which the reported information provided by the notifications would be
useful to the Commission. 793
Some commenters focused their comments on the proposal’s requirements for
Commission reporting of systems intrusions and offered alternative approaches to reporting
systems intrusions. One commenter stated that, in order to limit the number of notifications, SCI
entities should be required to investigate and keep a record of all systems intrusions that did not
cause a material disruption of service, or that were a malicious (but unsuccessful) attempt in
gaining unauthorized access to confidential data, and make these records available to the
Commission staff if requested. 794 Another commenter recommended that non-material systems
intrusions be recorded within the SCI entity’s records. 795 Another commenter suggested that
systems intrusions in a development or testing environment should only be reportable if there is a
likelihood that the same issue or vulnerabilities exist in the current production environment and
cannot be verified within a certain period, such as, for example, 24 to 48 hours. 796 In addition,
one commenter suggested that, for systems intrusions, rather than impose the Commission
notification requirement on SCI entities, the Commission should instead require SCI entities to

792

See SunGard Letter at 5; and Joint SROs Letter at 7.

793

See NYSE Letter at 22.

794

See Omgeo Letter at 12.

795

See DTCC Letter at 8.

796

See FINRA Letter at 11-12.

256

establish policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent, detect, and respond to systems
intrusions. 797
One commenter stated that the Commission should support the enhancement of the
Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center (“FS-ISAC”) 798 and another
commenter suggested that non-material cyber-relevant events be provided to and disseminated
through FS-ISAC rather than the Commission. 799 Some commenters further suggested that
certain systems intrusions should be reported to FS-ISAC. 800
Other commenters stated that reporting a systems compliance issue is reporting a legal
conclusion, and that requiring an SCI entity to do so would overburden them with extensive
technical and legal analysis and potentially expose those entities to Commission sanctions or
litigation. 801 Several commenters expressed concerns regarding the confidentiality of the
information provided pursuant to proposed Rule 1000(b)(4), and stated that the such information
should be confidential and protected from public disclosure. 802 One of these commenters

797

See BATS Letter at 12. This commenter believed that the cost of the proposed
requirement would outweigh any benefits because the proposed rule would require SCI
entities to “rapidly investigate and report a multitude of minor incidents that regularly
occur during the normal course of business.” Id.

798

FS-ISAC is a service that gathers information from a multitude of sources related to
threat, vulnerability, and risk of cyber and physical security and communicates timely
notifications and authoritative information specifically designed to help protect critical
systems and assets from physical and cybersecurity threats. See FS-ISAC: Financial
Services – Information Sharing and Analysis Center, available at: www.fsisac.com.

799

See BIDS Letter at 10; and Omgeo Letter at 12.

800

See SIFMA Letter at 14 (recommending that systems intrusions be reported to FS-ISAC
in addition to the Commission); and Omgeo Letter at 12 and 21 (recommending that nonmaterial systems intrusions be reported solely to FS-ISAC).

801

See OTC Markets Letter at 16. See also NYSE Letter at 16.

802

See NYSE Letter at 24; Joint SROs Letter at 12; and DTCC Letter at 11.

257

requested that the Commission confirm in the final rule that the information will remain
confidential. 803
Commenters also raised other general concerns and made suggestions with regard to
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4). One commenter argued that the proposed rules could cause SCI
entities to release information before all relevant factors are known, which could be
counterproductive and harmful. 804 Another commenter was concerned that SCI entities would
be required to provide notification reports multiple times to different Commission staff for the
same event. 805 Another commenter suggested that the proposed requirement is onerous and
costly and thus, to realize benefits, the Commission, based on notifications received from SCI
entities, should provide regular summary-level feedback that communicates the types, frequency,
severity, and impact of market incidents across all reporting entities and other related data on the
root cause of problems. 806 Another commenter suggested that the Commission provide
examples, such as publications and reference blueprints, which could be useful to SCI entities as
they attempt to understand the types of SCI events that warrant Commission notification. 807
Finally, some commenters broadly questioned the Commission’s legal authority to adopt

803

See DTCC Letter at 11.

804

See ITG Letter at 13.

805

See NYSE Letter at 22. Another commenter suggested that the notification requirement
with respect to system disruptions should make clear that multiple notifications are not
required if a disruption impacts multiple SCI entities. See FINRA Letter at 22.

806

See BIDS Letter at 10.

807

See SunGard Letter at 6.

258

Regulation SCI as proposed, asserting, among other things that the Commission’s proposed
notification requirement was beyond its legal authority. 808
ii.

Rule 1002(b)

After careful consideration of the comments on proposed Rule 1000(b)(4), the
Commission is adopting Rule 1002(b), with several modifications in response to comments. 809
Overview
The Commission notes that, even without the modifications the Commission is making in
adopted Rule 1002(b), the proposed Commission notification rule would require Commission
notice of fewer SCI events than as proposed as a result of the adopted definitions of SCI systems,
indirect SCI systems, systems disruption, and systems compliance issue, and the revised
triggering standard discussed above. In addition, the Commission has determined to refine the
scope of the adopted Commission notification requirement by incorporating a risk-based
approach that requires SCI entities, for purposes of Commission notification, to divide SCI
events into two main categories: SCI events that “[have] had, or the SCI entity reasonably
estimates would have, no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market
participants” (“de minimis” SCI events); and SCI events that are not de minimis SCI events. De
minimis SCI events will not be subject to an immediate Commission notification requirement as
proposed. Instead, all de minimis SCI events will be subject to recordkeeping requirements, and
de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions will be subject to a quarterly
reporting obligation, as set forth in adopted Rule 1002(b)(5). For SCI events that are not de
808

See NYSE Letter at 4-6; and OTC Markets at 6. See infra notes 833-837 and
accompanying text (discussing “Commission Legal Authority”).

809

Specific comments on proposed Rules 1000(b)(4)(i)-(iii) that are not discussed above are
discussed below in conjunction with the Commission’s response to those comments.

259

minimis, Commission notification will be governed by adopted Rules 1002(a)(1)-(4), which is
substantially similar to proposed Rules 1000(b)(4)(ii)-(iv), but relaxed in certain respects in
response to comment, as discussed below.
Effect of Revised Definitions and Revised Triggering Standard on Commission Notification
Requirement
The Commission believes that the revisions made to a number of definitions already
focus the scope of the Commission notification requirement in adopted Rule 1002(b) from the
SCI Proposal. For example, elimination of member regulation and member surveillance systems
from the adopted definition of SCI systems will substantially reduce the potential number of SCI
events that would be subject to Commission notification under the proposal. 810 Likewise,
systems problems that would otherwise meet the definition of SCI event do not meet the
definition of an SCI event if they occur in the development or testing environment. 811 In
addition, the Commission believes that the revised definition of “systems disruption” and
“systems compliance issue” also will result in fewer systems issues being identified as SCI
events. 812 In tandem with the revised definitions, the Commission also believes that the revised
triggering standard for notification of SCI events, which affords an SCI entity time to evaluate
whether a potential SCI event is an actual SCI event, will also result in fewer SCI events being
810

See supra Section IV.A.2.b (discussing the definition of “SCI systems”).

811

See supra note 796 and accompanying text. See also supra Section IV.A.2.b (discussing
the definition of “SCI systems”). According to one commenter who supported excluding
non-market systems from the definition of SCI systems and the notification and
dissemination requirements, applying the reporting requirements to non-market systems
“would significantly increase the volume of the reports the Commission receives.”
FINRA Letter at 10. (“If the definition of SCI systems is broadly construed to apply to
non-market regulatory and surveillance systems, approximately 111 FINRA systems
could be subject to Regulation SCI.”) FINRA Letter at 7.

812

See supra Section IV.A.3 (discussing the definition of “SCI event,” “systems disruption,”
and “systems compliance issue”).

260

subject to the requirements of Rules 1002(b)(1)-(4). 813 The Commission believes that these
changes respond to comments that proposed Rule 1000(b)(4) was overbroad and overly
burdensome for SCI entities. 814
Exclusion of De Minimis SCI Events from Immediate Notification Requirements: Adopted Rule
1002(b)(5)
Adopted Rule 1002(b)(5) states that the requirements of Rules 1002(b)(1)-(4) do not
apply to any SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have, no or a
de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants. For such de minimis
events, Rule 1002(b)(5) requires that an SCI entity: (i) make, keep, and preserve records relating
to all such SCI events; and (ii) submit to the Commission a report, within 30 calendar days after
the end of each calendar quarter, containing a summary description of such systems disruptions
and systems intrusions, including the SCI systems and, for systems intrusions, indirect SCI
systems, affected by such systems disruptions and systems intrusions during the applicable
calendar quarter.
The Commission believes that this exception will result in a less burdensome reporting
framework for de minimis SCI events than for other SCI events, and therefore responds to
comment that the proposed reporting framework was too burdensome. The Commission
believes that the quarterly reporting of de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems
intrusions will reduce the frequency and volume of SCI event notices submitted to the
Commission and also will allow both the SCI entity and its personnel, as well as the Commission

813

See supra Section IV.B.3.a (discussing the definition of “responsible SCI personnel”) and
Section IV.B.3.a (discussing the triggering standard).

814

See supra note 784 and accompanying text. See also Section VI (discussing comments
regarding the burdens associated with proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)).

261

and its staff, to focus their attention and resources on other, more significant SCI events.
Consistent with taking a risk-based approach in other aspects of Regulation SCI, the Commission
believes this modification from the SCI Proposal will result in more focused Commission
monitoring of SCI events than if this aspect of the SCI Proposal was adopted without
modification. Further, by reducing the number of SCI event notices provided to the Commission
on an immediate basis as compared to the SCI Proposal, the adopted rule should also impose
lower compliance costs and fewer burdens than if this aspect of the SCI Proposal was adopted
without modification.
However, the Commission has determined not to incorporate a materiality threshold as
requested by some commenters, 815 to limit the Commission reporting requirements to those
events that are considered by SCI entities to be truly disruptive to the markets, as suggested by
other commenters, 816 or to limit the Commission reporting requirement only to those events that
warrant notification to an SCI entity’s subscribers or participants, as suggested by still other
commenters. 817 The Commission has made this determination because while there may be SCI
events with little apparent impact on an SCI entity’s operations or on market participants and the
burden on an SCI entity to provide immediate notice to the Commission every time such an
event occurs may not justify the benefit of providing such notice to the Commission on an
immediate basis, the Commission does not believe that such de minimis events are irrelevant or
that the Commission should never be made aware of them. To fulfill its oversight role, the
Commission believes that the Commission and its staff should regularly be made aware of de

815

See, e.g., supra note 785 and accompanying text.

816

See, e.g., supra notes 785-787.

817

See supra note 788.

262

minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions and should have ready access to
records regarding de minimis systems compliance issues that SCI entities are facing and
addressing because, as the regulator of the U.S. securities markets, it is important that the
Commission and its staff have access to information regarding all SCI events (including de
minimis SCI events) and their impact on the technology systems and systems compliance of SCI
entities, which may also provide useful insights into learning about indications of more impactful
SCI events. The Commission has, however, determined to distinguish the timing of its receipt of
information regarding SCI events based on their impact: those SCI events that an SCI entity
reasonably estimates to have a greater impact are subject to “immediate” notification upon
responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred;
and those SCI events that an SCI entity reasonably estimates to have no or a de minimis impact
are subject to recordkeeping obligations, and for de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis
systems intrusions, a quarterly summary notification. Despite commenters’ arguments to the
contrary that de minimis SCI events do not warrant the Commission’s and its staff’s attention,
the Commission believes that quarterly reporting of de minimis systems disruptions and de
minimis systems intrusions and review of records regarding de minimis systems compliance
issues is beneficial to the Commission and its staff in understanding SCI entity systems
operations at the level of the individual SCI entity, as well as across the spectrum of SCI entities,
and to monitor compliance with the Exchange Act and rules thereunder. The Commission notes
that, while it is not requiring that de minimis systems compliance issues be submitted to the
Commission in quarterly reports, Commission staff may request records relating to such de
minimis systems compliance issues as necessary. The Commission encourages and does not

263

intend to inhibit an evaluation by SCI entities of systems compliance issues, including de
minimis systems compliance issues, which may inherently involve legal analysis.
As noted, some commenters focused specifically on systems intrusions, urging the
Commission to modify or significantly reduce the instances in which notice of systems intrusions
would be required, 818 or provide that non-material systems intrusions not be reported at all, and
only be recorded by the SCI entity. 819 The Commission believes that the recordkeeping and
quarterly reporting requirement for de minimis systems intrusions described in Rule 1002(b)(5)
is partially responsive to these comments, but also believes that notice of intrusions in SCI
systems and indirect SCI systems is important to allow the Commission and its staff to detect
patterns or understand trends in the types of systems intrusions that may be occurring at multiple
SCI entities. However, as compared to what would have been required if the SCI Proposal was
adopted without modification, the Commission expects that the exception from the immediate
reporting requirement provided for de minimis SCI events under Rule 1002(b)(5) will result in a
much lower number of systems intrusions that SCI entities will be required to immediately report
to the Commission than commenters believed, 820 and will achieve this result without
compromising the Commission’s interest in receiving more timely notification of impactful SCI
events.
In addition, some commenters suggested that certain types of systems intrusions or nonmaterial SCI events be reported exclusively to FS-ISAC or to both the Commission and FS818

See supra notes 794-797 and accompanying text.

819

See supra notes 794-795 and accompanying text.

820

See, e.g., supra note 794 and accompanying text (discussing a commenter’s suggestion to
limit the number of notifications by requiring recordkeeping of all systems intrusions that
did not cause a material disruption of service or that were a malicious (but unsuccessful)
attempt in gaining unauthorized access to confidential data).

264

ISAC, and some advocated that the Commission support the enhancement of FS-ISAC. 821 The
Commission believes that FS-ISAC, and other information sharing services play an important
role in assisting SCI entities and other entities with respect to security issues. Consistent with
views shared by several members of the third panel at the Cybersecurity Roundtable, to the
extent SCI entities determine that such information sharing services are useful, the Commission
encourages SCI entities to cooperate with and share information relating to information security
threats and related issues with such entities to further enhance their utility. 822 At the same time,
for the reasons discussed above, 823 the Commission believes that it is important that the
Commission directly receive information regarding systems intrusions from SCI entities, through
immediate notifications or quarterly reports, as applicable.
In response to comments that recordkeeping of non-material SCI events would be more
appropriate than reporting, the Commission believes that quarterly reporting of de minimis
systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions will better achieve the goal of keeping
Commission staff informed regarding the nature and frequency of SCI events that arise but are
reasonably estimated by the SCI entity to have a de minimis impact on the entity’s operations or
on market participants. Importantly, submission and review of regular reports will facilitate
Commission staff comparisons among SCI entities and thereby permit the Commission and its

821

See supra notes 799-800 and accompanying text.

822

See supra notes 39-40 and accompanying text. During the Cybersecurity Roundtable,
panelists referenced other services that they believed useful to SROs, including the
Financial Services Sector Coordinating Council for Critical Infrastructure Protection and
Homeland Security (FSSCC), the Clearing House and Exchange Forum (CHEF), and the
Worldwide Federation of Exchange’s recently established Global Exchanges Cyber
Security Working Group (GLEX). See supra note 39.

823

See supra notes 904-906 and accompanying text.

265

staff to have a more holistic view of the types of systems operations challenges that were posed
to SCI entities in the aggregate.
With regard to de minimis systems compliance issues, however, the Commission believes
the goals of Regulation SCI can be achieved through the SCI entity’s obligation to keep, and
provide to representatives of the Commission upon request, records of such de minimis systems
compliance issues. The Commission believes that systems compliance issues generally are more
specific to a particular entity’s systems and rules and less likely, as compared to systems
disruptions and systems intrusions, to raise market-wide issues that could affect several SCI
entities. Accordingly, information on such events are less likely to provide valuable insight into
trends and risks across the industry and, therefore, the Commission believes that the benefits of
receiving quarterly reports on such de minimis systems compliance issues would be less relative
to de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions. Further, the Commission
notes that, based on Commission staff’s experience with notifications of compliance-related
issues at SROs, the Commission believes that SCI entities will experience a relatively small
number of systems compliance issues each year, and thus, its regular examinations of SCI
entities will provide an adequate mechanism for reviewing and addressing de minimis systems
compliance issues affecting SCI entities. As noted above, Commission staff may request records
relating to such de minimis systems compliance issues as necessary.
In response to the concerns raised by one commenter that the notification requirements
have the potential to create efficiency issues, delay system remediation, create substantial
resource demands, and create instability, the Commission believes that these concerns have been
mitigated by the numerous changes made from the proposal, such as the adoption of a quarterly
reporting framework for de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions and

266

revised definitions of the terms SCI systems, indirect SCI systems, systems disruption, and
systems compliance issue, in addition to the reduction in the obligations SCI entities have with
respect to reporting requirements. 824 In addition, ARP entities today are able to regularly notify
the Commission of systems related issues, such as systems outages, and the Commission
therefore believes that the notification requirements will not require a majority of SCI entities to
develop policies and procedures that are incongruous with their current practice. Moreover, the
Commission believes that providing SCI entities with 30 days after the end of each quarter is
adequate time for an SCI entity to prepare its report without unduly diverting SCI entity
resources away from focusing on SCI events occurring in real time. 825
The Commission believes that requiring SCI entities to report de minimis systems
disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions quarterly balances the interest of SCI entities in
having a limited reporting burden for such types of events with the Commission’s interest in
oversight of the information technology programs and systems compliance of SCI entities. 826
Similarly, the Commission believes that requiring recordkeeping of de minimis systems
compliance issues allows the Commission to adequately monitor compliance with the Exchange
Act and rules thereunder, while reducing the burdens on SCI entities with regard to providing
information to the Commission on such de minimis systems compliance issues. Accordingly, the
Commission has determined to exclude certain SCI events from the immediate Commission

824

See supra note 790.

825

See supra notes 791-793 and accompanying text.

826

The Commission notes an SCI entity should be prepared for the possibility that
Commission staff may, whether upon request pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(3), Rule
1005(b)(3), or Rule 1007 or during an examination of its compliance with Regulation
SCI, include a review of the entity’s classification of SCI events as de minimis SCI
events under Rule 1002(b).

267

reporting requirements, subject to certain recordkeeping and reporting requirement for such
events, as applicable. 827
As described above, the de minimis exception from the immediate Commission
notification requirements applies to systems compliance issues as well as systems disruptions
and systems intrusions. The Commission believes that this approach strikes a balance that will
help focus the Commission’s and SCI entities’ resources on those systems compliance issues
with more significant impacts. Even if an SCI entity determines that the impact of the systems
compliance issue is none or negligible, however, the Commission believes that it should have
ready access to records regarding such systems compliance issues, and notes that Rule 1002
requires that an SCI entity take corrective action with respect to all SCI events, including de
minimis systems compliance issues. 828
The Commission recognizes that in many cases, the discovery of a potential systems
compliance issue may be of a different nature than the discovery of potential systems disruptions
or systems intrusions, as the latter types of events often have an immediately apparent and

827

While the facts and circumstances surrounding a particular SCI event will ultimately
determine the severity of a given event, including whether the event is reasonably
estimated to be a de minimis event, a wide range of factors may be relevant to an SCI
entity in making such a determination. For example, such factors could include, but are
not limited to: whether critical SCI systems are impacted; the duration of the SCI event;
whether there is a loss of redundancy (that negatively impacts, for example, a source of
power, telecommunications, or other key service); whether an alternate trading system is
available following a trading system disruption; the size of the affected market trading
volume; whether the processes for trade completion or clearance and settlement are
adversely impacted; whether settlement is completed on time; whether an event is
resolved prior to the market’s open; whether a post-trade event is resolved before the
market closes; whether a failover, despite being successful, results in a given system
operating without a backup; and the number of securities symbols that are adversely
affected.

828

See infra note 829 and accompanying text.

268

negative impact on the operations of a given system of the SCI entity. In contrast, in many
instances, a systems compliance issue may require the involvement of various personnel
(potentially including compliance and/or legal personnel) and a period of time may be required
to afford such personnel the chance to perform a preliminary legal analysis to analyze whether a
systems compliance issue had, in fact, occurred. Because Rule 1002(b)(1) only requires
notification to the Commission when responsible SCI personnel have a “reasonable basis to
conclude” that a non-de minimis SCI event has occurred, the Commission believes it is
appropriate for an SCI entity to notify the Commission of a non-de minimis systems compliance
issue after it has conducted such a preliminary legal analysis, unless the nature of the issue
makes it readily identifiable as a systems compliance issue. 829 Further, if an SCI entity
determines that a systems compliance issue is de minimis, such event will not be required to be
reported immediately to the Commission, but rather the SCI entity will be required to keep, and
provide to representatives of the Commission upon request, records of such de minimis systems
compliance issue. Thus, the Commission believes that, as adopted, the requirements with respect
to systems compliance issues are reasonable because SCI entities are afforded flexibility to
assess and understand potential SCI events and are not required to notify the Commission prior
to forming a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred. The Commissions also
believes that, as part of its oversight of the securities markets, it should have access to
829

At the same time, the Commission cautions SCI entities against unnecessarily delaying
Commission notifications of SCI events, including systems compliance issues. The
Commission notes that the notification requirement is triggered when responsible SCI
personnel have a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred and not, for
example, when responsible SCI personnel have definitively concluded that an SCI event
has occurred. As discussed above, the Commission does not believe it is appropriate for
an SCI entity to delay notifying its regulator of a systems compliance issue once the SCI
entity has a reasonable basis to conclude there is one. See supra note 828 and
accompanying text.

269

information regarding de minimis systems compliance issues when requested. And, although
some commenters expressed concern that a systems compliance issue is a legal conclusion that
requires time to analyze and could possibly expose the entity to liability if reported, 830 as
discussed above, the Commission believes these concerns will be mitigated by the revised
triggering standard for the obligations in Rule 1002. 831 However, while commenters are correct
that the occurrence of a systems compliance issue may expose an SCI entity to liability, 832 the
occurrence of an SCI event will not necessarily cause a violation of Regulation SCI. Further, the
occurrence of a systems compliance issue also does not necessarily mean that the SCI entity will
be subject to an enforcement action. Rather, the Commission will exercise its discretion to
initiate an enforcement action if the Commission determines that action is warranted, based on
the particular facts and circumstances of an individual situation.
Commission Legal Authority
As noted above, some commenters broadly questioned the Commission’s legal authority
to adopt certain provisions of Regulation SCI as proposed, including those relating to
Commission notification of SCI events, as well as Commission notification of material systems
changes. 833 Section 11A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act directs the Commission, having due regard
830

See OTC Markets Letter at 16; and NYSE Letter at 16.

831

See supra Section IV.B.3.a (discussing the triggering standard).

832

If an SRO fails to, among other things, comply with the provisions of the Exchange Act,
the rules or regulations thereunder, or its own rules, the Commission is authorized to
impose sanctions. See 15 U.S.C. 78s(g).

833

See supra note 808 and accompanying text. See infra note 1268 (noting comments
relating to the Commission’s legal authority for the proposed access provision, which the
Commission has determined not to adopt in its final rules because the Commission can
adequately assess an SCI entity’s compliance with Regulation SCI through existing
recordkeeping requirements and examination authority, as well as through the new
recordkeeping requirement in Rule 1005 of Regulation SCI).
270

for the public interest, the protection of investors, and the maintenance of fair and orderly
markets, to use its authority under the Exchange Act to facilitate the establishment of a national
market system for securities in accordance with the Congressional findings and objectives set
forth in Section 11A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act. Among the findings and objectives in Section
11A(a)(1) is that “[n]ew data processing and communications techniques create the opportunity
for more efficient and effective market operations” and “[i]t is in the public interest and
appropriate for the protection of investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets to
assure…the economically efficient execution of securities transactions.” In addition, Sections
6(b), 15A, and 17A(b)(3) of the Exchange Act impose obligations on national securities
exchanges, national securities associations, and clearing agencies, respectively, to be “so
organized” and “[have] the capacity to…carry out the purposes of [the Exchange Act].”
Consistent with this statutory authority, the Commission is adopting Regulation SCI to
require, among other things, that SCI entities: (1) provide certain notices and reports to the
Commission to improve Commission oversight of securities market infrastructure; and (2) have
comprehensive policies and procedures in place to help ensure the robustness and resiliency of
their technological systems, and also that their technological systems operate in compliance with
the Exchange Act, rules thereunder, and with their own rules and governing documents. These
requirements are important to furthering the directives in Section 11A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act
that the Commission, having due regard for the public interest, the protection of investors, and
the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, facilitate the establishment of a national market
system for securities in accordance with the Congressional findings and objectives set forth in

271

Section 11A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, including the economically efficient execution of
securities transactions.
As discussed in Section I, the U.S. securities markets have been transformed in recent
years by technological advancements that have enhanced the speed, capacity, efficiency, and
sophistication of the trading functions that are available to market participants. Central to these
technological advancements have been changes in the automated systems that route and execute
orders, disseminate quotes, clear and settle trades, and transmit market data. At the same time,
however, these technological advances have generated an increasing risk of operational problems
with automated systems, including failures, disruptions, delays, and intrusions. Accordingly, in
today’s securities markets, properly functioning technology is central to the maintenance of fair
and orderly markets, the national market system, and the efficient and effective market
operations and the execution of securities transactions. While the Commission’s ARP Inspection
Program has been active in this area, the Commission has not adopted rules specific to these
matters. The Commission believes that the adoption of Regulation SCI, with the modifications
from the SCI Proposal as discussed above, and compliance with the regulation by SCI entities,
will further the goals of the national market system. It will help to ensure the capacity, integrity,
resiliency, availability, and security of the automated systems of entities important to the
functioning of the U.S. securities markets, as well as reinforce the requirement that such systems
operate in compliance with the Exchange Act and rules and regulations thereunder, thus
strengthening the infrastructure of the U.S. securities markets and improving its resilience when
technological issues arise. In addition, Regulation SCI establishes an updated and formalized
regulatory framework, thereby helping to ensure more effective Commission oversight of these
systems whose proper functioning is central to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets and

272

for the continued operation of the national market system. For these reasons, the Commission
disagrees with the comments questioning the Commission’s legal authority to adopt Regulation
SCI.
More specifically, the Commission disagrees with comment regarding its legal authority
under Rule 1002(b) related to Commission notification of SCI events. As discussed above,
having immediate notice and continuing updates of non-de minimis SCI events, quarterly reports
related to de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions, and recordkeeping
requirements for de minimis SCI events, directly enables the Commission to have more effective
oversight of the systems whose proper functioning is central to the maintenance of fair and
orderly markets and for the continued operation of the national market system. In this respect,
Rule 1002(b) is integral to furthering the statutory purposes of Section 11A of the Act under
which the Commission is directed to act. Moreover, the Commission underscores that the
adopted Commission notification provisions would require immediate Commission notice of
fewer SCI events than as proposed because the adopted definitions of SCI systems, indirect SCI
systems, systems disruption, and systems compliance issue have been refined from the proposal,
and de minimis SCI events are not subject to immediate notice.
Some commenters also questioned the Commission’s legal authority to require
Commission notification of material systems changes. 834 As discussed in more detail below, the
material systems change reports are intended to make the Commission and its staff aware of
significant systems changes at SCI entities, and thereby improve Commission oversight of U.S.
securities market infrastructure, which directly furthers the findings and objectives set forth in

834

See infra note 1046 and accompanying text.

273

Section 11A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act. 835 The Commission believes that the adopted material
systems change notification requirement will allow the Commission to more efficiently and
effectively participate in discussions with SCI entities when systems issues occur and will allow
Commission staff to effectively prepare for inspections and examinations of SCI entities.
Moreover, Rule 1003(a), as adopted, differs significantly from the proposed requirements as it no
longer requires 30-day advance notification, but rather requires quarterly reports of material
systems changes. As such, the requirement is designed not to result in “close, minute regulation
of computer systems and computer security.” 836 Additionally, the Commission notes that
Regulation SCI does not provide for a new review or approval process for SCI entities’ material
systems changes. 837
Immediate Commission Notification – Proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i)
Commenters also specifically discussed proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i) regarding reporting
to the Commission on immediate notification SCI events. One commenter stated that it
generally supported the immediate notification requirement of proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i) in the
case of material SCI events, 838 but other commenters were critical. 839 For example, some
commenters stated that the Commission should adopt a materiality threshold which would only

835

See infra Section IV.B.4 (discussing the requirement to notify the Commission of
material systems changes).

836

See infra note 1046.

837

As noted below in Section IV.B.4, Commission staff will not use material systems
change reports to require any approval of prospective systems changes in advance of their
implementation pursuant to any provision of Regulation SCI, or to delay implementation
of material systems changes pursuant to any provision of Regulation SCI.

838

See MSRB Letter at 18.

839

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 22.

274

require an SCI entity to immediately report material SCI events. 840 Similarly, one group of
commenters suggested a tiered method that would reserve immediate notification to the
Commission for truly critical events “where the Commission’s input would contribute to an
expedient resolution,” while requiring SCI entities to have written policies and procedures that
focus the SCI entity’s attention primarily on taking corrective measures during an SCI event and
maintaining records to provide information to the Commission and members and participants as
appropriate. 841 Two commenters suggested that different reporting standards should apply to
different types of systems, suggesting, for example, that immediate notification should be
required only for higher priority systems. 842

840

See SIFMA Letter at 13; FIF Letter at 4; ITG Letter at 12; NYSE Letter at 23; FINRA
Letter at 10, 22; and OCC Letter at 13. One commenter stated that, in considering factors
that would determine whether or not an SCI event is material, the Commission should
consider the overall market disruption caused by the SCI event, the length of the event,
the financial impact of the event, and the inability to meet core regulatory obligations
regarding order handling and execution activities. See ITG Letter at 13. Similarly, two
commenters stated that, with respect to systems compliance issues or systems intrusions,
immediate notification SCI events should be limited to systems compliance issues or
systems intrusions that the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have a material impact
on its operations or on market participants. See MSRB Letter at 18; and Omgeo Letter at
15. Further, in the case of intrusions, one commenter stated that notifications could also
include intrusions that would cause a malicious unauthorized access to confidential data,
but recommended that other types of intrusions be subject to recordkeeping. See Omgeo
Letter at 15. One group of commenters supported implementing a materiality threshold
for systems compliance issues, which it stated should be based on factors such as the
number of members affected, financial impact and operation impact, and these guidelines
should be articulated in the SCI entities’ policies and procedures. See Joint SROs Letter
at 9.

841

See Joint SROs Letter at 10.

842

See FINRA Letter at 22 (suggesting, for example, that immediate Commission
notification should not be required for SCI events that occur in systems that do not
provide real-time data to the market); and SIFMA Letter at 13 (stating that that lower
priority systems should only be reported on an aggregate and periodic basis).

275

One commenter questioned the adequacy of the Commission’s asserted basis and purpose
for requiring notification for the vast majority of SCI events. 843 In this commenter’s view, the
Commission’s asserted rationale for the Commission notification requirement 844 would only
support requiring immediate notification for a limited number of SCI events, where the
Commission’s involvement is necessary. 845 For other SCI events, in which the Commission
would only be gathering and analyzing submitted information, the commenter stated that the
Commission’s rationale for requiring immediate notification is insufficient. 846
Some commenters addressed the use of the term “immediately” in the proposed rule.
One commenter characterized the proposed immediate reporting requirements as rigid, and
questioned why reporting could not occur “promptly” with follow-up as reasonably requested by
the Commission staff. 847 Another commenter stated that immediate notification is unrealistic
and predicted that it could trigger an innumerable amount of false alarms. 848
Other commenters addressed SCI events that occur outside of normal business hours.
Two commenters believed that an SCI entity should not be required to notify the Commission of
an SCI event outside of normal business hours. 849 Other commenters stated that material events

843

See NYSE Letter at 21-22.

844

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18119.

845

See NYSE Letter at 22; see also Joint SROs Letter at 10.

846

See NYSE Letter at 22.

847

See BATS Letter at 12.

848

See Direct Edge Letter 8.

849

See FINRA Letter at 21; and BATS Letter at 12. FINRA also stated that an SCI entity
should have one full business day to report an SCI event.

276

should require immediate notification to the Commission, but all other types of events should be
reported by the next business day. 850
One commenter stated that immediate notification of an SCI event may be difficult where
an SCI entity uses a third party to operate its systems, and therefore believed that an SCI entity
should not be responsible for reporting an SCI event caused by a third party unless there is a
material impact to the market or the SCI entity’s ability to meet its service level agreements. 851
This commenter stated that the rule should permit SCI entities flexibility on how to address third
party issues and requested further guidance from the Commission in this area. 852
Immediate Notification of SCI Events: Adopted Rule 1002(b)(1)
Adopted Rule 1002(b)(1) requires each SCI entity to notify the Commission of an SCI
event immediately upon any responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude
that an SCI event has occurred (unless it is a de minimis SCI event). Such notification may be
provided orally (e.g., by telephone) or in writing (e.g., by email or on Form SCI). Although
many commenters were critical of the immediate notification provision, Rule 1002(b)(1)
substantially retains the requirements of proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i), but is modified in certain
respects in response to comments.

850

See, e.g., DTCC Letter at 9 (stating that, outside of normal business hours, an SCI entity
should only be required to notify the Commission of the most critical events; i.e., those
with the potential to impact the core functions and critical operations of the SCI entity);
and OCC Letter at 14 (stating that when an event is material because it could have a
market-wide impact or impact the core functions of an SCI entity, immediate notification
should be required even outside of normal business hours, but all other SCI events should
be reported no later than the next business day).

851

See FINRA Letter at 22; see also supra Section IV.A.2.b (discussing the definition of
“SCI systems” as it relates to third parties).

852

See FINRA Letter at 22.

277

The Commission has considered the views of commenters who stated that the
Commission should require immediate notification only for material SCI events, or when
Commission involvement would contribute to an expedient resolution. 853 Given the
Commission’s oversight responsibilities over SCI entities and the U.S. securities market
generally, the notification rule is not intended to be limited to instances in which SCI entities
might believe that it would be useful for the Commission to provide input. SCI event
notifications also serve the function of providing the Commission and its staff with information
about the potential impact of an SCI event on the securities markets and market participants
more broadly, which potential impacts may not be readily apparent or important to the SCI entity
reporting such an event. Moreover, the Commission believes that there will be instances in
which an SCI entity will not know the significance of an SCI event at the time of the occurrence
of an event, or whether such event (or, potentially, the aggregated impact of several SCI events
occurring, for example, across many SCI entities) will warrant the Commission’s input or merit
the Commission’s awareness, nor does the Commission believe it should be solely within an SCI
entity’s discretion to make such a determination. And SCI entities retain the flexibility to revise
their initial assessments should they subsequently determine that the event in question was
incorrectly initially assessed to be a de minimis event (or incorrectly initially assessed to not be a
de minimis event). Consequently, the Commission does not agree with commenters who stated
that only material SCI events should be reported to the Commission immediately. 854

853

See supra notes 838-846 and accompanying text.

854

See, e.g., supra note 842 and accompanying text.

278

The Commission has also considered comments that the term “immediately” as used in
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4) is rigid and unrealistic. 855 The Commission, in adopting Rule
1002(b), has retained the requirement that SCI entities must notify the Commission immediately;
however, as discussed in detail above, 856 the triggering standard has been modified so that the
notification obligations of Rule 1002(b) are triggered only upon any responsible SCI personnel
having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred. The Commission believes
this modification responds to commenters concerns that the “immediate” reporting requirement
is too rigid or would pose practical difficulties, as it allows additional time for escalation to
senior SCI entity personnel and for the performance of preliminary analysis and assessment
regarding whether an SCI event has, in fact, occurred before requiring notification to the
Commission. As such, the Commission believes that the immediate notification requirement of
Rule 1002(b)(1) will not unduly cause “false alarms,” as one commenter stated. 857 At the same
time, the Commission believes that the immediate notification requirement, as adopted, will help
ensure that the Commission and its staff are kept apprised of SCI events after they occur, and as
their impact unfolds and is mitigated and, ultimately, as the SCI entity engages in corrective

855

See supra note 847 and accompanying text.

856

See supra Section IV.B.3.a (discussing the triggering standard).

857

See supra note 848 and accompanying text. The Commission notes that, if an SCI entity
at some point after submitting an immediate notification concludes after further
investigation and analysis that it was incorrect in its initial determination that an SCI
event had occurred, the SCI entity should alert the Commission of its updated assessment
pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(3). Relatedly, Rule 1002(b) is designed to provide SCI entities
flexibility in notifying the Commission of the details regarding an SCI event (for
example, through the ability to provide the Rule 1002(b)(2) written notification on a good
faith, best efforts basis) and time to assess and analyze the SCI event (for example, by
requiring that the Rule 1002(b)(2) written notification only provide a description of the
SCI event, including the system(s) affected, and with additional information only
required to the extent available at that time).
279

action to resolve the SCI events. Additionally, the Commission notes that immediate
notifications made pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(1) may be made orally (e.g., by telephone) or in a
written form (e.g., by email or on Form SCI). 858 The Commission notes that, by not prescribing
the precise method of communication for an immediate notification, SCI entities are afforded the
flexibility to determine the most effective and efficient method to communicate with the
Commission.
The Commission has also considered comments that immediate notification should not be
required outside of normal business hours, or that it should only be required outside of normal
business hours in the case of material SCI events. 859 The Commission notes that the adopted
rule will afford SCI entities considerable flexibility in how to communicate an immediate
notification to the Commission—that is, SCI entities may satisfy the immediate notification
requirement simply by communicating with the Commission via telephone or e-mail. In
addition, because an SCI entity’s obligation to report to the Commission is not triggered until
responsible SCI personnel has a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred, 860
the Commission does not believe that timely notification, even outside of normal business, is so
onerous that it necessitates allowing a full business day to comply. Particularly because it has
determined to exclude de minimis SCI events from the immediate notification requirement, the
Commission believes that it is reasonable to require that an SCI event (except those specified in
Rule 1002(b)(5)) be reported to the Commission orally (e.g., by telephone) or in writing (e.g., by
858

The Commission notes that, prior to the compliance date of Regulation SCI, Commission
staff intends to notify SCI entities of the e-mail addresses, phone numbers, and contact
persons that SCI entities should use when notifying the Commission of SCI events under
Rule 1002(b).

859

See, e.g., supra notes 849 and 794-797 and accompanying text.

860

See supra Section IV.B.3.a (discussing the triggering standard).

280

email or on Form SCI) when responsible SCI personnel have a reasonable basis to conclude that
an SCI event has occurred, even if such communication may be outside of normal business
hours. Because the rule provides flexibility to more easily enable communication—by
permitting oral notification—of the fact of an SCI event to the Commission, and because only
non-de minimis SCI events are subject to this requirement, the Commission believes notice to
the Commission is appropriate sooner rather than later. In addition, as discussed above, the
Commission believes that there may be situations where the severity of an SCI event may not be
immediately apparent to an SCI entity experiencing the event, but the Commission, from its
unique position, may determine as a result of receiving multiple immediate notifications, each
related to an SCI event of a similar nature, that the SCI event is part of a pattern of a larger, more
significant occurrence. The Commission is therefore adopting Rule 1002(b) to require that an
SCI entity notify the Commission of an SCI event immediately upon any responsible SCI
personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred, without an
exception for periods outside of normal business hours.
In addition, as noted above, the information submitted to the Commission pursuant to
Regulation SCI will be treated as confidential, subject to applicable law 861 and, as noted in
Sections IV.B.1.b.i and IV.B.2.a, the occurrence of an SCI event does not necessarily mean that
an SCI entity has violated Regulation SCI.
The Commission disagrees with the commenter who stated that the Commission should
not require SCI entities to be responsible for reporting an SCI event caused by a third party
because immediate notification would be difficult. 862 An SCI event, whether or not caused by a
861

See supra note 674.

862

See supra notes 851-852 and accompanying text.
281

third party system, by definition relates to an SCI system or indirect SCI system. As explained
in Section IV.A.2 above (discussing the definitions of “SCI systems” and “indirect SCI
systems”), the Commission has adopted the definition of SCI systems to include, specifically,
those systems of SCI entities that would be reasonably likely to impact the protection of
investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets and an SCI entity’s operational
capability, and has not excluded third party systems from the definition. As stated above, if an
SCI entity is uncertain of its ability to manage a third-party relationship to satisfy the
requirements of Regulation SCI, then it would need to reassess its decision to outsource the
applicable system to such third party. 863
In response to comment that SCI entities would be required to provide notification
reports multiple times to different Commission staff for the same event, 864 the Commission notes
that rule does not include such a requirement. In addition, the Commission also disagrees with
the commenter who stated that, for systems disruptions, notifications should not be required from
each separate entity where a disruption impacts multiple SCI entities. 865 Excusing immediate
notification where a given event seems to be affecting multiple SCI entities would not be
appropriate because the Commission, as the centralized receiver of notifications, will be the
entity that will be in a position to determine whether, in fact, SCI entities are concurrently
experiencing the same SCI event. Moreover, even if a given event affects multiple SCI entities,
it may be the case that the event impacts each SCI entity and the affected systems in a different

863

See supra note 260 and accompanying text.

864

See, e.g., supra note 805 and accompanying text.

865

See, e.g., id.
282

manner, and thus the Commission believes it is important to receive individual notifications from
each affected SCI entity.
Written Commission Notification: Proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii)
Commenters also specifically discussed and suggested alternatives to proposed Rule
1000(b)(4)(ii), which would have required an SCI entity, within 24 hours of any responsible SCI
personnel becoming aware of any SCI event, to submit a written notification pertaining to such
SCI event to the Commission. Many commenters stated that the proposed 24-hour time frame
was too short or burdensome. 866 Several commenters specifically suggested that the
Commission extend the time frame to allow SCI entities to attend to the SCI event without also
devoting resources to notifying the Commission, suggesting different time frames they believed
to be appropriate. 867 One commenter suggested that SCI entities be given until 24 to 48 hours
after final resolution of the SCI event to submit a written notification. 868 Another commenter
similarly recommended that, where real-time notification is needed, written notification should
not be required unless an SCI event remains unresolved after a reasonable period (such as 10 or
15 days). 869
866

See NYSE Letter at 23; FINRA Letter at 19; BATS Letter at 12; DTCC Letter at 9;
MSRB Letter at 18; SIFMA Letter at 13; FIF Letter at 5; BIDS Letter at 10; Omgeo
Letter at 17; and CME Letter at 9.

867

Commenters suggested time frames of 48 hours (CME Letter at 9); 72 hours (OCC Letter
at 12; DTCC Letter at 9, 11 (noting, however, that details surrounding an SCI event
should not be required to be provided in writing until after the investigation of the event
is complete and the event has been resolved)); and five business days (BIDS Letter at 10).

868

See FINRA Letter at 20. This commenter further suggested that, if an SCI event has not
been fully resolved within a reasonable period, e.g.,10 or 15 days, an SCI entity could be
required to submit written notification based on currently available information at the end
of that period, with periodic status updates via telephone or email, and a final written
submission within 24 to 48 hours after the event has been fully resolved.

869

See SIFMA Letter at 14.
283

Some commenters also suggested that, if the Commission retains the 24-hour
requirement, it should require provision of less information. For example, one commenter
suggested that SCI entities should only be required to provide whatever information is
sufficiently reliable at that time. 870 Two other commenters stated that SCI entities should not be
required to include an estimate of the markets and participants impacted by an SCI event or to
quantify such impact because this requirement may create a risk of civil liability for the SCI
entity. 871 Another commenter recommended that the rule require only a brief written summary
that is one or two paragraphs, which could be supplemented by oral communications and a
longer summary within 15 days after an SCI event has been fully resolved. 872
With respect to the information provided to the Commission via notification of an SCI
event, one commenter suggested that the rule provide a safe harbor for entities and employees for
either inadvertent omissions in a submitted report, or when a good faith, documented
determination is made that no report is required. 873 One commenter stated that that the
Commission should expressly provide that initial written submissions are to be made on a best
efforts basis and SCI entities will incur no liability or penalty for any unintentional inaccuracies

870

See FINRA Letter at 20. This commenter also suggested that the rule require an SCI
entity to assess the “business impact” of an SCI event, noting that this information may
provide more context than requiring an SCI entity to estimate the number of market
participants impacted by an SCI event (which in some cases could be zero, but still have
a negative impact on the SCI entity). See FINRA Letter at 30.

871

See DTCC Letter at 10; and Omgeo Letter at 30. Omgeo added that such a calculation
would be difficult to compute, likely inaccurate, and of little use to the Commission.

872

See Omgeo Letter at 17.

873

See id. at 18.
284

or omissions contained in these submissions. 874 Some commenters stated that entities should not
be liable for information that is later found to be incomplete or inaccurate. 875
Some commenters 876 questioned the purpose of requiring that information disseminated
to members and participants (under proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)) be copied and attached to Form
SCI as part of notifications to the Commission, and considered it “an overly broad inclusion of
communications” that would have “a chilling effect on communications between the SCI entities
and their members and participants,” 877 while another commenter argued that, when an exchange
is having a technology issue, many members may be reaching out to the exchange’s staff with
requests for information and status. Therefore, that commenter questioned the feasibility, need,
and potential impact of the proposed requirement that SCI entities provide a copy of any
information disseminated to date regarding the SCI event to their members or participants. 878
One commenter stated that, to reduce the cost of compliance, the Commission should
accept the same notifications of service interruptions that an ATS already provides to its
subscribers. 879

874

See FINRA Letter at 20.

875

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 14; and UBS Letter at 4 (stating that SCI entities acting in
good faith should not be held accountable if details offered in reports to the Commission
are substantially different from what is revealed by further analysis).

876

Because the requirement to provide information disseminated to an SCI entity’s members
or participants is now included in the Final Report (Rule 1002(b)(4)) instead of with the
24-written notification requirement as proposed, the Commission’s response to these
comments is discussed below in the subsection “Final Report: Adopted Rule 1002(b)(4).”

877

See Joint SROs Letter at 11.

878

See Direct Edge Letter at 7-8.

879

See BIDS Letter at 11.

285

Commenters also provided suggestions for limiting the circumstances for which 24-hour
written notification would be required under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii). One commenter
stated that only SCI events that materially impact an SCI entity’s operations or market
participants should be subject to the 24-hour written notification requirement, but questioned
whether 24 hours was realistic even for those events. 880 One commenter suggested that proposed
Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii) only apply to significant SCI events and that other events only be subject to a
recordkeeping requirement. 881 In addition, some commenters suggested that if an SCI entity has
provided oral notification to the Commission, it should not be required to file written notice
within 24 hours after the initial report unless reasonably requested by the Commission. 882
Written Notification Within 24 Hours: Adopted Rule 1002(b)(2)
Adopted Rule 1002(b)(2) requires an SCI entity, within 24 hours of any responsible SCI
personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that the SCI event has occurred, to submit a
written notification pertaining to such SCI event to the Commission. Rule 1002(b)(2) allows for
such written notifications to be made on a good faith, best efforts basis and requires that it
include: (i) a description of the SCI event, including the system(s) affected; and (ii) to the extent
available as of the time of the notification: the SCI entity’s current assessment of the types and
number of market participants potentially affected by the SCI event; the potential impact of the
SCI event on the market; a description of the steps the SCI entity has taken, is taking, or plans to
take, with respect to the SCI event; the time the SCI event was resolved or timeframe within

880

See MSRB Letter at 18.

881

See CME Letter at 9.

882

See BATS Letter at 12; and Omgeo Letter at 17. See also DTCC Letter at 10; and OCC
Letter at 14 (suggesting 72 hours to provide written information after providing verbal
notification).

286

which the SCI event is expected to be resolved; and any other pertinent information known by
the SCI entity about the SCI event.
The Commission has considered comments stating that 24 hours is too short and
burdensome a duration for an SCI entity to submit a compliant written notification. 883 The
Commission understands commenters’ concerns that SCI entities may still be actively
investigating and working to resolve an SCI event and that information it initially provides to the
Commission about an SCI event may not ultimately prove correct. 884 Therefore, in line with
commenters’ concerns regarding a good faith and best efforts standard, 885 the Commission has
modified the 24-hour written notification requirement in adopted Rule 1002(b) to make clear that
the written notification should be provided on a “good faith, best efforts basis.” This
modification acknowledges that a written notification provided within 24 hours may provide
only a preliminary assessment of the SCI event, that additional information may come to light
after the initial 24-hour period, and that the initial assessment may prove in retrospect to be
incorrect or incomplete. Consequently, the adopted rule requires that the written notification
provided within 24 hours be submitted on a good faith, best efforts basis, and does not require
that the written notification be a comprehensive or complete assessment of the SCI event (unless,
of course, an SCI entity has completed a full assessment by such time). The Commission
believes that a “good faith” standard will help to ensure that SCI entities will not be accountable
for unintentional inaccuracies or omissions contained in these submissions, and a “best efforts”
standard will help to ensure that SCI entities will make a diligent and timely attempt to provide

883

See, e.g., supra note 866 and accompanying text.

884

See supra notes 873-875 and accompanying text.

885

See id.

287

all the information required by the written notification requirement. The Commission also notes
that an SCI entity will not need to submit a written notification where an SCI entity documents
that an SCI event is determined to be a de minimis SCI event, other than including de minimis
systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions in the quarterly report required by Rule
1002(b)(5). As discussed in further detail below, in the event that new information comes to
light or previously reported information is found to be materially incorrect, adopted Rule
1002(b)(3) requires an SCI entity to update the information at that time, and does not require that
such updates be written. 886 The Commission believes these modifications will help ensure that
SCI entities are able to provide the information required by Rule 1002(b)(2) within 24 hours, and
therefore the Commission is not modifying the timeframe to extend beyond 24 hours, as
requested by several commenters. 887 Moreover, because the information need only be provided
on a good faith, best efforts basis and, pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(3), updates can be provided on a
regular basis to correct any materially incorrect information previously provided or when new
material information is discovered, the Commission disagrees with commenters that stated that
the information required by Rule 1002(b) should be provided only after resolution of the SCI
event. The Commission continues to believe that Rule 1002(b)(2)’s requirement to provide
information to the Commission within 24 hours is appropriately tailored to help the Commission
and its staff quickly assess the nature and the scope of an SCI event and will contribute to more
timely and effective Commission oversight of systems whose proper functioning is central to the

886

See infra note 909 and accompanying text.

887

See supra notes 867-869 and accompanying text; and Proposing Release, supra note 13,
at 18119.

288

maintenance of fair and orderly markets, and that this would particularly be the case for SCI
events that are not yet resolved. 888
Adopted Rule 1002(b)(2) is also responsive to comments urging the Commission to
require less information in a 24-hour written notification. 889 Specifically, whereas proposed
Rule 1000(b)(4) required a detailed description of the SCI event, adopted Rule 1002(b)(2)(i)
specifies that an SCI entity must only provide “a description of the SCI event, including the
system(s) affected.” Additional information is only required to the extent available as of the time
of the notification, which includes an “SCI entity’s current assessment of the types and number
of market participants potentially affected by the SCI event; the potential impact of the SCI event
on the market; a description of the steps the SCI entity has taken, is taking, or plans to take, with
respect to the SCI event; the time the SCI event was resolved or timeframe within which the SCI
event is expected to be resolved; and any other pertinent information known by the SCI entity
about the SCI event.” 890 This information is the type of necessary information that SCI entities
are able to provide in a short timeframe and that the Commission has come, over time, to rely
upon to properly assess systems issues.
Additionally, the Commission notes that adopted Rule 1002(b) does not require that an
SCI entity provide the Commission, at the time of the initial notice to the Commission, with its
current assessment of the SCI event, including a discussion of the determination of whether it is
subject to a dissemination requirement, as proposed in Rule 1000(b)(4).

888

See supra notes 868 and 872 and accompanying text.

889

See supra notes 870-872 and accompanying text.

890

Rule 1002(b)(2)(ii). The information required to be provided in Rule 1002(b)(2)(ii) is a
subset of information proposed to be required under Rule 1000(b)(4)(iv)(A)(1)-(2) of the
SCI Proposal.

289

The Commission has also determined to further refine the scope of information that needs
to be reported in the 24-hour written notification by requiring that the following items instead be
included in the final report under Rule 1002(b)(4), rather than in the 24-hour written notification
required by Rule 1002(b)(2): a description of the SCI entity’s rule(s) and/or governing
document(s), as applicable, that relate to the SCI event; and an analysis of parties that may have
experienced a loss, whether monetary or otherwise, due to the SCI event, the number of such
parties, and an estimate of the aggregate amount of such loss. 891
In response to commenters who suggested that the Commission limit the events for which
24-hour written notification would be required to material events, 892 the Commission notes that it
has partially responded to such comments by providing an exception to the immediate
notification requirement for de minimis events in Rule 1002(b)(5). The Commission believes
that this exception should reduce the overall number of SCI events subject to immediate
notification requirements as compared to what would have been required if the SCI Proposal was
adopted without modification and, consequently, the requirement to submit a written notification
within 24 hours of an SCI event, thereby alleviating some of the burdens about which
commenters expressed concerns. Moreover, the Commission believes that a materiality

891

At the same time, if such information is known at the time of the notification, the SCI
entity will be required to provide it pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(2)(ii)’s requirement that the
SCI entity provide “any other pertinent information known…about the SCI event.”
Additionally, such information would be provided under the requirement to provide the
Commission with regular updates under Rule 1002(b)(3)’s requirement to provide any of
the information listed in Rule 1002(b)(2)(ii) if it becomes available after the time of
submission of the 24-hour notification. The Commission also notes that Rule
1002(b)(4)(ii) requires that an SCI entity include in the final report a copy of any
information disseminated pursuant to Rule 1002(c) by the SCI entity to date regarding an
SCI event to any of its members or participants.

892

See supra note 880 and accompanying text.

290

threshold would likely exclude from the 24-hour written notification a large number of SCI
events that are not de minimis SCI events but that the Commission, as part of its oversight role,
should be updated on so that the Commission and its staff can quickly assess the nature and
scope of those SCI events and potentially assist the SCI entity in identifying the appropriate
response, including ways to mitigate the impact of SCI events on investors and promote the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets. The Commission reemphasizes that the information to
be provided under the 24-hour written notification would represent the SCI entity’s preliminary
assessment—performed on a good faith, best efforts basis—of the SCI event, and only certain
key information is required under the 24-hour written notification, with “other pertinent
information” required only where “known by the SCI entity” within the 24-hour timeframe. For
these reasons, the Commission has determined not to adopt a materiality threshold for the
requirement that an SCI entity update the Commission within 24 hours after it has a reasonable
basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred.
Additionally, the Commission disagrees with those commenters who stated that written
notification should only be required when reasonably requested by the Commission.893 The
Commission believes that it should be notified of all SCI events and that all SCI events (other
than those specified in Rule 1002(b)(5)) should be subject to the 24-hour written notification
requirement because, by articulating in a single notification what is currently known about an
SCI event and the steps expected to be taken to respond to the SCI event, the Commission will
be better able to assess the nature and scope of, and respond to, SCI events and potentially assist
SCI entities in identifying the appropriate response, including ways to mitigate the impact of SCI
events on investors and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets.
893

See supra note 882 and accompanying text.

291

In response to the comment that the Commission should accept the same notifications of
service interruptions that an ATS provides to its subscribers, 894 the Commission believes that SCI
ATSs can use the types of information contained in ATS notices to subscribers when completing
Form SCI, but nevertheless believes that it is more useful and efficient for the Commission and
its staff to be able to have all SCI event notifications standardized in a single format (i.e., Form
SCI).
As discussed above, the information required under the adopted 24-hour written
notification requirement has been refined as compared with the requirements in the proposal.
Consequently, the Commission believes that SCI entities should be able to provide the
Commission with this information in a written format, and does not agree that such information
should be provided in an oral format, as requested by some commenters, regardless of the
manner in which the immediate notification was provided to the Commission. 895 The
Commission emphasizes that regular updates provided under Rule 1002(b)(3) may, however, be
provided either orally or in written form. 896
In response to commenters that stated SCI entities should not be required to include an
estimate of the market participants impacted by an SCI event or to quantify such impact because
this requirement may create a risk of civil liability for the SCI entity, 897 the Commission notes
that the information submitted to the Commission pursuant to Regulation SCI will be treated as

894

See supra note 879 and accompanying text.

895

See supra notes 872 and 882 and accompanying text.

896

See infra note 911 and accompanying text.

897

See supra note 871.

292

confidential, subject to applicable law, including amended Rule 24b-2. 898 Moreover, the
requirement to provide a 24-hour written notification does not itself create a risk of civil liability,
but the Commission acknowledges that the information provided to it may be subject to FOIA
requests.
Regarding the comment that the requirement to include an estimate of the markets and
participants impacted by an SCI event or to quantify such impact would be difficult to compute,
likely inaccurate, and of little use to the Commission, 899 the Commission disagrees. The rule
requires an SCI entity to provide its current assessment of the types and number of market
participants potentially affected by the SCI event and the potential impact of the SCI event on the
market, to the extent this information is available as of the time of the notification, rather than an
exact computation. In addition, the rule does not require that the assessment be submitted only if
the SCI entity ensures that it is free of inaccuracies. Further, contrary to the commenter’s
suggestion, the Commission believes that such estimates will be of significant use to the
Commission and its staff in understanding the potential severity of the SCI event. In addition,
because the SCI entity is likely to be in the best position to assess an SCI event, the Commission
also believes that an assessment of the impact of an SCI event on markets and participants is
useful because it afford the Commission the opportunity to learn the SCI entity’s perspective on
the potential or actual impact of an SCI event. 900
Written Commission Updates: Proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iii)
898

See supra notes 802-803 and accompanying text. For a discussion of the amendment to
Rule 24b-2, see infra notes 1245-1248 and accompanying text.

899

See supra note 871 and accompanying text.

900

The Commission notes that SCI entities retain the flexibility to provide additional
information to the Commission as part of their assessments, such as providing the
“business impact” of an SCI event, as suggested by one commenter. See supra note 870.

293

Commenters also addressed proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iii), which required an SCI entity
to provide the Commission written updates pertaining to an SCI event on a regular basis, or at
such frequency as reasonably requested by a representative of the Commission, until the SCI
event was resolved. Some commenters urged the Commission to provide clarity on the
definition of “resolved.” 901 For example, one commenter suggested that the Commission should
define the resolution of an SCI event to be when the affected SCI systems have been
normalized, 902 and another commenter stated that there should be a precise definition of when an
SCI event is resolved and that definition should be linked directly to the definition of the SCI
event itself. 903 Other commenters expressed concern that the continuing update requirement
could divert resources from resolution of the SCI event and suggested that updates be required
only to the extent they would not interfere with event resolution. 904 One commenter stated that
continual updates should only be necessary if the SCI entity had not resolved the event within a
reasonable period, such as 10 to 15 days. 905
Other commenters addressed the method of providing updates. For example, one
commenter stated that only oral communication should be required when an SCI event is
ongoing, and that the rule should allow a written supplement to a final or post mortem report if
additional information comes to light regarding the SCI event. 906 Another commenter suggested
that updates should be permitted to be in writing or provided orally based on the judgment of the
901

See DTCC Letter at 11; and Omgeo Letter at 18.

902

See DTCC Letter at 11.

903

See Omgeo Letter at 18.

904

See MSRB Letter at 19; and OCC Letter at 14.

905

See FINRA Letter at 20.

906

See Omgeo Letter at 17.

294

SCI entity. 907 Finally, one commenter stated that requests for updates regarding SCI events
should only be permitted to come from senior staff at the Commission.908
Regular Updates: Adopted Rule 1002(b)(3)
Rule 1002(b)(3) requires that, until such time as an SCI event is resolved, and the SCI
entity’s investigation of the SCI event is closed, an SCI entity provide the Commission with
updates pertaining to the SCI event on a regular basis, or at such frequency as reasonably
requested by a representative of the Commission. Updates are required to correct any materially
incorrect information previously provided, or when new material information is discovered,
including not limited to, any of the information listed in Rule 1002(b)(2)(ii).
While the Commission recognizes that providing the Commission with such updates
imposes an additional reporting requirement on SCI entities, the Commission also believes that
updates are important to allow the Commission to fully monitor the SCI event. In addition, the
Commission believes that the update requirement will encourage SCI entities to formalize their
processes for gathering information on SCI events, which will help to ensure that responsible
SCI personnel receive accurate and updated information on SCI events as they are being
resolved, and further, that this process may be helpful to SCI entities when providing information
about SCI events to their members or participants. Also, because the Commission has revised
the requirements of the 24-hour notification to allow SCI entities to provide information on a
good faith, best efforts basis and has limited the scope of information required in that report as
discussed above, the Commission believes that updates to the Commission to correct materially
incorrect information previously reported or when new material information is discovered as
907

See MSRB Letter at 19.

908

See NYSE Letter at 24.

295

required by the rule is important to keep the Commission up to date with accurate information,
including the following: the SCI entity’s current assessment of the types and number of market
participants potentially affected by the SCI event; the potential impact of the SCI event on the
market; a description of the steps the SCI entity has taken, is taking, or plans to take, with respect
to the SCI event; the time the SCI event was resolved or timeframe within which the SCI event is
expected to be resolved; and any other pertinent information known by the SCI entity about the
SCI event. Consequently, the Commission does not agree with the commenter who suggested
that updates should be only required if an SCI event has not been resolved within a reasonable
amount of time, such as 10 to 15 days. 909
The Commission believes that updates regarding this information are important to
enhance the Commission’s oversight of the securities markets and its informed and continued
understanding of an SCI event. Moreover, the Commission underscores that updates are only
required to the extent that they correct any materially incorrect information previously provided
or when new material information is discovered, including but not limited to, any of the
information listed in Rule 1002(b)(2)(ii), thereby alleviating the burden to SCI entities of
providing such updates absent such circumstances. 910 The Commission has also eased the
requirements of the proposed update provision by eliminating the proposed requirements that an
SCI entity attach a copy of any information disseminated to date regarding the SCI event to its
members or participants or on the SCI entity’s publicly available website; a description of the

909

See supra note 870 and accompanying text.

910

The requirement that updates regarding new or corrected information be provided on a
regular basis (unless an alternative, specific frequency is reasonably requested by a
representative of the Commission) is designed to take into account the fact that new or
updated information may develop at different frequencies for different SCI events.

296

SCI entity’s rule(s) and/or governing document(s), as applicable, that relate to the SCI event; an
analysis of parties that may have experienced a loss, whether monetary or otherwise, due to the
SCI event, the number of such parties, and an estimate of the aggregate amount of such loss.
Instead, these information requirements must only be provided as part of the final report required
by Rule 1002(b)(4), and the Commission therefore believes that burdens associated with the
continuing update requirement will be streamlined because SCI entities will not need to devote
resources to providing written updates while an SCI event is ongoing.
At the same time, the Commission is cognizant of the burdens associated with requiring
written updates and therefore has revised the update requirement in adopted Rule 1002(b)(3) to
remove the proposed requirement that such updates be provided in written form. Thus,
submission of updates may be provided either orally or in written form, and will result in a
lighter burden on SCI entities than the proposed requirement, and is responsive to commenters
that suggested that SCI entity resources would be better directed to resolving an SCI event. 911
In response to comment that the Commission provide guidance to clarify when an SCI
event has been “resolved” 912 and in line with the particular comment that the concept of
resolution should be linked directly to the definition of the SCI event itself, 913 the Commission
believes that an SCI event is resolved when the event no longer meets the definitions of a
systems disruption, systems intrusion, or systems compliance issue, as defined in Rule 1000, and

911

See supra note 791 and accompanying text. SCI entities may, but are not required to,
utilize Form SCI to submit such updates. See Section IV.D (discussing Form SCI). The
Commission also believes that, to the extent commenters suggested that the Commission
permit oral updates, they did so because, at least in part, oral updates are less burdensome
to SCI entities than written updates. See supra notes 906-907 and accompanying text.

912

See supra notes 902-903 and accompanying text.

913

See supra note 903 and accompanying text.

297

that an SCI entity’s Rule 1002(b) reporting obligations are completed when an SCI entity
submits a final report as required by Rule 1002(b)(4). Further, the Commission does not believe
that it is necessary to prescribe that requests to SCI entities regarding updates should come solely
from senior Commission staff, as suggested by one commenter. 914 The Commission believes
that requiring an SCI entity to update the Commission at such frequency as reasonably requested
by a representative of the Commission provides appropriate flexibility to the Commission to
request additional information as necessary, but does not anticipate that requests will be made by
multiple members of the Commission staff because the Commission expects that such requests
would be coordinated by a particular group of Commission staff that are assigned to handle
specific reports from SCI entities.
Final Report: Adopted Rule 1002(b)(4)
Adopted Rule 1002(b)(4) requires that if an SCI event is resolved and the SCI entity’s
investigation of the SCI event is closed within 30 days of the occurrence of the SCI event, then
within five business days after the resolution of the SCI event and closure of the SCI entity’s
investigation regarding the SCI event, the SCI entity is to submit a final written notification
pertaining to such SCI event to the Commission (“final report”). The final report is required to
include: (i) a detailed description of: the SCI entity’s assessment of the types and number of
market participants affected by the SCI event; the SCI entity’s assessment of the impact of the
SCI event on the market; the steps the SCI entity has taken, is taking, or plans to take, with
respect to the SCI event; the time the SCI event was resolved; the SCI entity’s rule(s) and/or
governing document(s), as applicable, that relate to the SCI event; and any other pertinent
information known by the SCI entity about the SCI event; (ii) a copy of any information
914

See supra note 802 and accompanying text.

298

disseminated pursuant to Rule 1002(c) by the SCI entity to date regarding the SCI event to any
of its members or participants; and (iii) an analysis of parties that may have experienced a loss,
whether monetary or otherwise, due to the SCI event, the number of such parties, and an estimate
of the aggregate amount of such loss. Rule 1002(b)(4) also specifies that, if an SCI event is not
resolved or the SCI entity’s investigation of the SCI event is not closed within 30 days of the
occurrence of the SCI event, then, the SCI entity is required to submit a written notification
pertaining to such SCI event to the Commission within 30 days after the occurrence of the SCI
event containing the information required in Rules 1002(b)(4)(i)-(iii), to the extent known at the
time. Within five business days after the resolution of such SCI event and closure of the
investigation regarding such SCI event, the SCI entity is required to submit a final written
notification pertaining to such SCI event to the Commission containing the information specified
in the rule.
As an initial matter, the Commission notes that several of the items that are specifically
required to be described in the final report (as specified in adopted Rule 1002(b)(4)) were
proposed to be required to be provided to the Commission under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii),
within a shorter time frame. 915 The Commission believes that the adopted rule, by requiring that
this information be submitted to the Commission after resolution of an SCI event and closure of
the SCI entity’s investigation, will encourage SCI entities to devote resources first to resolving
the SCI event, and providing status reports when required, and then to preparing a
comprehensive final report. In particular, as some commenters suggested, certain information
915

The Commission notes that while proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iv)(C) specified that an SCI
entity was required to provide a copy of any information disseminated on the SCI entity’s
publicly available website, adopted Rule 1002(b)(4) specifies that an SCI entity provide a
copy of any information disseminated pursuant to Rule 1002(c) by the SCI entity to date
regarding the SCI event to any of its members or participants.

299

would be more accurate, and therefore more useful, if provided after an SCI event is resolved. 916
The Commission believes that the information required under Rule 1002(b)(4) will provide the
Commission with a comprehensive analysis to more fully understand and assess the impact
caused by the SCI event. In addition, the Commission ordinarily would expect an SCI entity to
include the root cause of an SCI event as part of “any other pertinent information” known about
the SCI event. The Commission also believes that certain of the information requested by Rule
1002(b)(4) is more suitable to be provided after, rather than prior to, resolution of an SCI event.
Specifically, much of the information required by Rule 1002(b)(4) (an analysis of parties that
may have experienced a loss, whether monetary or otherwise, due to the SCI event, the number
of such parties, and an estimate of the aggregate amount of such loss) can only be
comprehensively known after the final resolution of an SCI event. 917
Similarly, the Commission is revising the proposed requirement that SCI entities provide
to the Commission a copy of any information disclosed by the SCI entity to date regarding the
SCI event to any of its members or participants. First, rather than requiring that SCI entities
provide a copy of “any information disclosed by the SCI entity,” the adopted rule requires that
SCI entities provide a copy of any information “disseminated pursuant to paragraph (c) of [Rule
1002]” by the SCI entity to date regarding the SCI event to any of its members or participants.
The Commission believes that this refined requirement will more appropriately capture only the
916

See supra notes 870-878 and accompanying text.

917

The Commission notes that a notification required pursuant to proposed Rule
1000(b)(4)(ii) required the SCI entity to provide information on the “potential impact of
the SCI event on the market,” whereas adopted Rule 1002(b)(4)(ii)(A) requires a
description of “the SCI entity’s assessment of the impact of the SCI event on the market.”
Because adopted Rule 1002(b)(4) requires a final report upon resolution of an SCI event
and the closure of the SCI entity’s investigation of the SCI event, the Commission
believes it is appropriate that an SCI entity provide its assessment of the impact of the
SCI event in the final report, rather than information on the SCI event’s potential impact.
300

information needed for the Commission to assess compliance with the dissemination
requirements of Rule 1002(c). Further, to limit the burden on, and provide additional flexibility
to, SCI entities as they resolve SCI events, the adopted rule does not require this information to
be included as part of a Form SCI submission until the final report is to be submitted to the
Commission. The Commission believes that it is sufficient to require that this information be
included in the final report because it is an important part of the record of an SCI event and SCI
entity’s response to such event. 918 As noted above, one commenter questioned the purpose of
this requirement and expressed concern that it may negatively impact open communication
between an SCI entity and its members and participants, 919 while another commenter questioned
the feasibility, need, and potential impact of this requirement in light of the numerous
communications that SCI entities will engage in with their members or participants. 920 While the
Commission recognizes that it is possible that the requirement could have some chilling effect on
such communications, it believes that this information is important for SCI entities to share with
the Commission because it is an efficient means for the Commission to assess whether SCI
entities are complying with the dissemination requirements of Rule 1002(c). Further, the
Commission believes that, by requiring that SCI entities provide a copy only of information
disseminated pursuant to Rule 1002(c) (rather than all information disclosed to members or
918

Under Rule 1002(b)(4), SCI entities are required to provide a copy of any information
disseminated pursuant to Rule 1002(c) by the SCI entity to date regarding the SCI event
to any of its members or participants.

919

See supra note 877.

920

See supra note 878 and accompanying text. Specifically, this commenter noted that there
could be hundreds of communications between the SCI entity and its members or
participants during a systems incident and questioned the feasibility of, and need for,
recreating and providing to the Commission a copy of all such communications. Further,
the commenter noted that this requirement could have an unintended effect of
discouraging open communication between the SCI entity and its members.

301

participants regarding the SCI event), it addresses one commenter’s concern that it would be
difficult, unnecessary, and could impede open communication, to provide the Commission with a
copy of all information disclosed to members or participants, which could include hundreds of
individual communications via email or telephone for each SCI event.
The Commission also believes that, if an SCI event is not resolved or the SCI entity’s
investigation of the SCI event is not closed within 30 days of the occurrence of the SCI event, it
is reasonable to require that an SCI entity submit within thirty business days after the occurrence
of the SCI event the information required in Rule 1002(b)(4)(ii), to the extent known at the time,
because this timeframe provides SCI entities with flexibility to continue their investigation while
also apprising the Commission of relevant information discovered during the course of the SCI
entity’s investigation. Moreover, the rule takes into account the Commission’s recognition that
an SCI entity’s investigation regarding an SCI may not yet be complete despite the fact that the
SCI event itself has resolved. In such cases, within five business days after the SCI event has
resolved and the investigation regarding the SCI event has closed, the Commission believes that
it is reasonable and necessary to provide it with a comprehensive and complete understanding of
the SCI event. Consequently, SCI entities are required to submit a final written notification that
contains all information required by Rule 1002(b).
Goals of Adopted Commission Notification Rule
As discussed in greater detail above, the Commission has carefully considered the views
of commenters as well as what it believes is necessary for the Commission and its staff with
respect to the timing and content of notifications regarding SCI events, and believes that the
adopted rule will be less burdensome for SCI entities than if the proposed rule was adopted
without modification, while still resulting in meaningful notice to the Commission and its staff

302

with information about SCI events in a timely manner that permits the Commission to fulfill its
oversight role.
With regard to comments on the resource and efficiency demands of the notification
requirements, 921 the Commission believes that while SCI entities will need to devote resources to
fulfilling the notification requirements, the Commission does not believe that these resources
will diminish SCI entities’ ability to respond to SCI events because it is the Commission’s
experience that the staff that engages in corrective action is generally distinct from the staff that
has been charged with notifying the Commission of systems issues. Consequently, the
Commission does not believe that, due to this requirement, staff that engages in corrective action
will be unable to fulfill its responsibilities after implementation of Regulation SCI.
The Commission believes that adopted Rules 1002(b)(1)-(4) are responsive to concerns
that the proposed Commission notification requirements would have required SCI entities to
notify the Commission of information before all relevant facts are known. 922 As discussed, in
tandem with the revised triggering standard, which affords an SCI entity time to assess whether
an SCI event has occurred, 923 the adopted rule affords an SCI entity the flexibility to gather
information for the 24-hour written notification on a good faith best, efforts basis, 924 and adopted
Rule 1002(b)(3) makes clear that an SCI entity is required to update the Commission to correct
any materially inaccurate information previously provided, or when pertinent new information is
discovered, until such time as the SCI event is resolved, and the SCI entity’s investigation of the

921

See supra notes 790-793.

922

See supra note 804 and accompanying text.

923

See supra Section IV.B.3.a (discussing the triggering standard).

924

See supra discussion of “good faith, best efforts” above.

303

SCI event is closed. Further, the final report for a given SCI event is only required once, when
both the SCI event is resolved and the SCI entity’s investigation of the SCI event is closed, with
an interim report required only when an SCI event is not resolved or the SCI entity’s
investigation of the SCI event is not closed within 30 days of the occurrence of the SCI event.
Taken together, the Commission believes that Rule 1002(b) does not require reporting before all
relevant fact are known, which one commenter suggested would be counterproductive and
harmful. 925 Instead, the Commission believes that the rule is designed to provide SCI entities
with a process that gives them sufficient time to submit information to the Commission when
known. In addition, and in response to comment questioning the usefulness of the notification
requirement for the Commission,926 the Commission believes that adopted Rule 1002(b) will
foster a system for comprehensive reporting of SCI events, which should enhance the
Commission’s review and oversight of U.S. securities market infrastructure and foster
cooperation between the Commission and SCI entities in responding to SCI events. The
Commission also believes that the aggregated data that will result from the reporting of SCI
events will enhance its ability to comprehensively analyze the nature and types of various SCI
events and identify more effectively areas of persistent or recurring problems across the systems
of all SCI entities. Some commenters suggested that the Commission provide to SCI entities
regular summary-level feedback on SCI entities’ notifications 927 or provide examples of the
types of SCI events that warrant notification. 928 To the extent it believes that guidance or other

925

See supra note 804.

926

See supra note 793.

927

See supra note 806 and accompanying text.

928

See supra note 807 and accompanying text.
304

information, including summary-level feedback, publications, or reference blueprints, would be
appropriate to share, the Commission or its staff may do so in the future.
d.

Dissemination of Information – Rule 1002(c)
i.

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(5) would have required an SCI entity to provide specified
information relating to “dissemination SCI events” to SCI entity members or participants. The
term “dissemination SCI event” was proposed to mean an SCI event that is a: (1) systems
compliance issue; (2) systems intrusion; or (3) systems disruption that results, or the SCI entity
reasonably estimates would result, in significant harm or loss to market participants.
Proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(i)(A) would have required an SCI entity, promptly after any
responsible SCI personnel becomes aware of a dissemination SCI event other than a systems
intrusion, to disseminate to its members or participants the following information about such SCI
event: (1) the systems affected by the SCI event; and (2) a summary description of the SCI
event. Proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(i)(B) would have required an SCI entity to further disseminate
to its members or participants, when known: (1) a detailed description of the SCI event; (2) the
SCI entity’s current assessment of the types and number of market participants potentially
affected by the SCI event; and (3) a description of the progress of its corrective action for the
SCI event and when the SCI event has been or is expected to be resolved. Proposed Rule
1000(b)(5)(i)(C) would have further required an SCI entity to provide regular updates to
members or participants on any of the information required to be disseminated under proposed
Rules 1000(b)(5)(i)(A) and (i)(B). In the case of a systems intrusion, the proposed rule permitted
a limited delay in dissemination if the dissemination would compromise the security of the SCI

305

entity’s systems. 929 Except for the delay in dissemination of information for systems intrusions
in specified circumstances, the proposed rule did not distinguish dissemination obligations based
on the severity or impact of a dissemination SCI event.
ii.

Comments Regarding Information Dissemination

Two commenters generally supported proposed Rule 1000(b)(5). 930 One commenter
characterized it as “one of the major benefits of th[e] proposal.” 931 Another commenter
suggested broadening the proposal to require an SCI entity to reveal dissemination SCI events to
the public at large, and not just to its members or participants. 932 This commenter believed that
public dissemination of the facts of an SCI event would help enhance investor confidence by
preventing speculation and misinformation, and would provide important learning opportunities
for the industry and other SCI entities. 933

929

See proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(ii) (permitting a delay in dissemination of information
regarding a systems intrusion if “the SCI entity determines that dissemination of such
information would likely compromise the security of the SCI entity’s SCI systems or SCI
security systems, or an investigation of the systems intrusion, and documents the reasons
for such determination”).

930

See Angel Letter at 5; and MFA Letter at 7.

931

See Angel Letter at 5. This commenter stated: “Instead of keeping information about
hardware failures, system intrusions, and software glitches private, sharing the
information will alert others in the industry about such problems and help to reduce
system wide costs of diagnosing problems, as well as result in improved responses to
technology problems. These will serve as warnings to the other SCI entities to stay
vigilant to prevent similar problems from occurring on their platforms.” Angel Letter at
5.

932

See MFA Letter at 7.

933

See id.

306

In contrast, many commenters urged the Commission to revise the proposed
dissemination requirement. 934 For example, a few commenters expressed concern that the
proposal would require dissemination of too much information too soon. 935 One of these
commenters stated that the proposed rule would be counterproductive and harmful because it
would cause the release of information before all relevant facts are known and suggested
dissemination should only be required when the SCI entity has credible information that can be
acted upon. 936 Another commenter suggested that dissemination should only be required when
the information to be disseminated is certain and clear. 937 Another commenter urged that, if
immediate dissemination is required, then the information required to be disseminated should be
limited to communication of the basic fact that there is a systems issue and additional
information will be provided when known. 938
Several commenters opposed requiring information dissemination to all members and
participants. 939 For example, some commenters urged that an SCI entity be required to provide
information only to members or participants actually impacted by an SCI event, or that interact

934

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 28-29; FINRA Letter at 24; BATS Letter at 13; DTCC Letter at
11-12; OCC Letter at 16; CME Letter at 9-10; ICI Letter at 4; Oppenheimer Letter at 2;
Direct Edge Letter at 8; Omgeo Letter at 21; ITG Letter at 13; and FIA PTG Letter at 3.

935

See, e.g., DTCC Letter at 12, NYSE Letter at 29; and ITG Letter at 13.

936

See ITG Letter at 13. See also supra note 804 and accompanying text.

937

See DTCC Letter at 12.

938

See NYSE Letter at 29 (stating also that the scope of the information required to be
provided is too extensive, particularly given the timing requirements of the proposed
rule).

939

See, e.g., MSRB Letter at 20-21; DTCC Letter at 11; CME Letter at 10; NYSE Letter at
28; FINRA Letter at 24-25; ISE Letter at 6-7; SIFMA Letter at 15; and OCC Letter at 17.

307

with the SCI system impacted, rather than to all members or participants of an SCI entity. 940
One commenter recommended that an SCI entity be required to disseminate information only to
persons reasonably likely to be affected by a significant systems issue. 941 Two commenters
stated that SCI entities should have reasonable discretion to determine who among their
members and participants should receive notification of an SCI event, as well as the manner and
timing for providing notice. 942 A few commenters more broadly expressed concern that the
proposed rule would result in over-reporting of information about SCI events and would have
limited usefulness. 943 Some of these commenters stated that the proposed approach would result
in SCI entity members and participants becoming immunized to the notifications because they
would receive too many notifications and therefore would not focus on the truly significant
events. 944

940

See MSRB Letter at 20-21; DTCC Letter at 11; CME Letter at 9; NYSE Letter at 28;
FINRA Letter at 25; and ISE Letter at 6-7. In addition, one of these commenters sought
clarification on whether the term “participant” refers to a formal participant or, more
broadly speaking, any market participant that interacts with the SCI system in question.
See MSRB Letter at 20. See also Omgeo Letter at 21, and infra note 954.

941

See NYSE Letter at 28.

942

See SIFMA Letter at 15 (urging that an SCI entity should have discretion to determine
which participants or members are affected and how to notify them); and OCC Letter at
17 (urging that an SCI entity should be able to limit the communication to those members
and participants that are actually affected and to provide the communication on a
confidential and secure basis when the SCI entity has reasonable certainty of the
information that is required to be provided).

943

See, e.g., CME Letter at 9; FIA PTG Letter at 3; and Omgeo Letter at 39. See also
Fidelity Letter at 5 (requesting that the Commission provide greater specificity regarding
the types of dissemination SCI events that must be disclosed and to whom disclosure
must be made).

944

See, e.g., Omgeo Letter at 40; FIA PTG Letter at 3; and CME Letter at 9.

308

Several commenters suggested that the Commission apply the proposed dissemination
requirement to fewer types of SCI events. 945 For example, several commenters stated that
information dissemination should only be required for material or significant SCI events. 946 One
commenter suggested that, for an SCI event that is “de minimis,” information dissemination to
members or participants should not be required at all. 947 This commenter suggested that a de
minimis SCI event would be one that is limited in impact, brief in duration, or involves little or
no member or participant harm. 948 Another commenter noted that, as proposed, Commission
notification would be required for a systems disruption if the systems disruption had a “material
impact” on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants, whereas information
dissemination to members or participants would be required if an SCI entity reasonably
estimated that the systems disruption would result “in significant harm or loss to market
participants.” 949 This commenter criticized the differing standards for Commission notification
and member/participant notification and suggested that the Commission clarify the standards or
adopt a uniform standard for both types of notifications. 950
Several commenters specifically opposed the proposed dissemination requirement for
systems compliance issues. Some commenters urged that an SCI entity be required to
945

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 28; FIA PTG Letter at 3; FINRA Letter at 24; BATS Letter at
13; OCC Letter at 16-17; CME Letter at 9-10; ICI Letter at 4; Oppenheimer Letter at 2;
and Direct Edge Letter at 8.

946

See NYSE Letter at 28; FIA PTG Letter at 3; FINRA Letter at 24; BATS Letter at 13;
OCC Letter at 16-17; CME Letter at 9-10; ICI Letter at 4; Oppenheimer Letter at 2; and
Direct Edge Letter at 8.

947

See BATS Letter at 13.

948

See id.

949

See OCC Letter at 16.

950

See id.

309

disseminate information only for material or significant systems compliance issues. 951 One of
these commenters stated that prompt dissemination of information regarding systems compliance
issues to members or participants might lead to widespread dissemination of extraneous and
potentially inaccurate information. 952
Regarding systems intrusions, a few commenters stated that dissemination of systems
intrusions information could raise significant risks and security concerns. 953 One commenter
recommended that a dissemination requirement apply only in the case of members, participants,
or clients for whom confidential data was disclosed, processing was impacted, or where such
member, participant, or client could take further action to mitigate the risk of such disclosure. 954
This commenter also expressed support for the limited exception for intrusions that would
compromise an investigation or resolution of the systems intrusion, noting that once
dissemination would no longer compromise an investigation or the resolution of the issue, the
entity should notify materially affected members, participants, or clients.
One commenter stated that information should not be disseminated regarding disruptions
in regulatory or surveillance systems, nor should information be disseminated about intrusions or
compliance issues, arguing that the information could be misused, or if disseminated too soon,

951

See, e.g., FINRA Letter at 24; Joint SROs Letter at 9; SIFMA Letter at 12; BATS Letter
at 13; MSRB Letter at 6; and CME Letter at 10.

952

See Joint SROs Letter at 8.

953

See DTCC Letter at 11; and NYSE Letter at 29. See also Direct Edge Letter at 3
(suggesting that, to ensure that sensitive information does not fall into the wrong hands,
the Commission should require reporting of systems intrusions to the Commission, and
only require public disclosure in instances where there is a risk of significant harm to the
SCI entity’s customers).

954

See Omgeo Letter at 21.

310

could be inaccurate and misleading. 955 Two other commenters also expressed concern that
information dissemination should not be required when the information provided might be
misused to the detriment of the markets or investors, such as with respect to systems intrusions
or issues relating to surveillance systems. 956
iii.

Rule 1002(c)

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission stated that the intended purpose of the proposed
rule was twofold: to aid members or participants of SCI entities in determining whether their
trading activity has been or might be impacted by the occurrence of an SCI event at an SCI entity
so that they could consider that information in making trading decisions, seeking corrective
action or pursuing remedies, or taking other responsive action; and to provide an incentive for
SCI entities to devote more resources and attention to improving the integrity and compliance of
their systems and preventing the occurrence of SCI events. 957 Although commenters generally
did not object to the Commission’s stated rationale for proposed Rule 1000(b)(5), several
commenters suggested that the proposed approach did not adequately consider circumstances in
which the proposed information dissemination might not be helpful to the market or market
participants, or could be detrimental to the markets or market participants. One commenter,
however, urged that public dissemination of information regarding SCI events would help to
prevent speculation and misinformation regarding such events. 958

955

See NYSE Letter at 29. See also supra note 935 and accompanying text.

956

See ICI Letter at 4; and Oppenheimer Letter at 2.

957

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18120.

958

See supra note 933 and accompanying text.

311

The Commission has carefully considered the views of commenters with respect to
proposed Rule 1000(b)(5), and has determined to adopt it as Rule 1002(c), with several
modifications in response to comment. In particular, the Commission has determined to
eliminate the definition of “dissemination SCI event” from the final rule and adopt an
information dissemination requirement that scales dissemination obligations in accordance with
the nature and severity of an SCI event. In response to comment that the proposed rule would
result in over-reporting of information about SCI events and have limited usefulness, the
Commission has further focused the rule from the proposal by requiring dissemination of
information about SCI events that are not major SCI events only to affected SCI entity members
and participants, and excepting de minimis SCI events and SCI events regarding market
regulation or market surveillance systems from the information dissemination requirement. 959 In
the case of a “major SCI event,” the Commission agrees with the commenter who stated that
requiring dissemination should help to prevent speculation and misinformation regarding such
events. 960 Therefore, in the case of a “major SCI event,” the adopted rule requires an SCI entity
to disseminate information to all of its members or participants. At the same time, as with other
SCI events, any SCI event that meets the definition of major SCI event that has had, or the SCI
entity reasonably estimates would have, no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations
or on market participants is excepted from the information dissemination requirement. 961 The
Commission believes the revised approach will better achieve the purpose of maximizing the

959

See supra notes 943-956 and accompanying text.

960

See supra note 933 and accompanying text.

961

See Rule 1002(c)(4)(ii).
312

utility of information disseminated to SCI entity members and participants while simultaneously
reducing compliance burdens for SCI entities.
Rule 1002(c)(1): Information Dissemination for Systems Disruptions and Systems Compliance
Issues
Adopted Rule 1002(c)(1) generally addresses dissemination requirements for systems
disruptions and systems compliance issues. Rule 1002(c)(1)(i) requires an SCI entity, promptly
after any responsible SCI personnel has a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event that is a
systems disruption or systems compliance issue has occurred, to disseminate information about
such SCI event, unless an exception applies. When the dissemination obligation is triggered, 962
Rule 1002(c)(1)(i) requires an SCI entity to disseminate to the persons specified in Rule
1002(c)(3) information on the system(s) affected by the SCI event and a summary description of
the SCI event. Thereafter, Rule 1002(c)(1)(ii) provides that, when known, an SCI entity shall
promptly further disseminate: a detailed description of the SCI event; the SCI entity’s current
assessment of the types and number of market participants potentially affected by the SCI event;
and a description of the progress of its corrective action for the SCI event and when the SCI
event has been or is expected to be resolved. Rule 1002(c)(1)(iii) provides that, until resolved,
an SCI entity shall provide regular updates of any information required to be disseminated under
Rules 1002(c)(1)(i) and (ii). The specified types of information and the update requirements are
unchanged from the proposal. The Commission continues to believe that, for the dissemination
of information to be meaningful, it is necessary for an SCI entity to describe the SCI event in
sufficient detail to permit a member or participant to determine whether and how it was affected

962

See supra Section IV.B.3.a (discussing the triggering standard).

313

by the SCI event and make appropriate decisions based on that determination. 963 Adopted Rule
1002(c)(1)(i) requires that the information initially disseminated include the systems affected by
the SCI event and a summary description of the SCI event, and only after responsible SCI
personnel have a reasonable basis to conclude that a systems disruption or systems compliance
issue has occurred. Implicit in this requirement is that the disseminated information be accurate.
Without the dissemination of accurate information, the impact on the SCI entity’s members or
participants or the market may be more pronounced because market participants may not
recognize that an SCI event is occurring, or may mistakenly attribute unusual market activity to
some other cause.
Adopted Rule 1002(c)(1) also requires that required information be disseminated
“promptly.” 964 Although the Commission agrees that SCI entities should not prematurely
disseminate information regarding an SCI event, lest it be inaccurate, speculative, misleading, or
otherwise unhelpful, as some commenters were concerned about, 965 the Commission does not
agree with the commenter who suggested that information dissemination be provided at a time
chosen by the SCI entity. 966 The Commission believes that accurate information that is timely is
more likely to aid a market participant in determining whether its trading activity has been or
might be impacted by the occurrence of an SCI event than accurate information that is delayed.
However, as compared to Commission notification, which is required to be provided
immediately after an SCI entity has a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has
963

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18120.

964

The persons to whom the required information about systems disruptions and systems
compliance issues is to be disseminated are specified in Rules 1002(c)(3) and (4).

965

See also supra notes 935-938 and 933 and accompanying text.

966

See supra note 942 and accompanying text.

314

occurred, and which notice may be provided orally, dissemination of information to SCI entity
members or participants is required to be provided promptly. The requirement for prompt
dissemination, as opposed to immediate dissemination, is designed to provide some limited
flexibility to an SCI entity to determine an efficient way to disseminate information to multiple
potentially affected members or participants, or all of its members or participants, as the case
may be, in a timely manner. Likewise, as new information becomes known, immediate updates
are not required, but an SCI entity is obligated to also disseminate updated information
“promptly” after it is known. The Commission believes that adopted Rule 1002(c)(1) strikes an
appropriate balance by requiring an SCI entity to disseminate specific information about SCI
events, but also permits an SCI entity to have time to check relevant facts before disseminating
that information. The Commission therefore believes that adopted Rule 1002(c)(1) is responsive
to comment that the proposed rule would have required release of information too soon, before it
is determined to be credible, or before relevant facts were known. 967
Rule 1002(c)(2): Information Dissemination for Systems Intrusions
Adopted Rule 1002(c)(2) requires an SCI entity, promptly after any responsible SCI
personnel has a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event that is a systems intrusion has
occurred, to disseminate a summary description of the systems intrusion, including a description
of the corrective action taken by the SCI entity and when the systems intrusion has been or is
expected to be resolved, unless the SCI entity determines that dissemination of such information
would likely compromise the security of the SCI entity’s SCI systems or indirect SCI systems, or
an investigation of the systems intrusion, and documents the reasons for such determination.
This rule applies to systems intrusions that are not de minimis events. In response to
967

See supra notes 935-938 and accompanying text.

315

commenters stating that information about a systems intrusion in many cases will be sensitive
and raise security concerns, and those urging that the dissemination requirement apply only in
limited cases, 968 the Commission notes that, although it does not wholly exclude systems
intrusions from the dissemination requirement, the rule permits a delay in dissemination of any
information about a systems intrusion if dissemination would compromise the security of the SCI
entity’s SCI systems or indirect SCI systems, or an investigation of the systems intrusion, and the
SCI entity documents the reason for such determination. 969 Adopted Rule 1002(c)(2) also
provides that the content of the required disclosure for a systems intrusion is less detailed than
required for other types of SCI events. These provisions are unchanged from the SCI
Proposal. 970 As stated in the SCI Proposal, the Commission continues to believe that there may
be circumstances in which the dissemination of information related to a systems intrusion should
be delayed to avoid compromising the investigation or resolution of a systems intrusion. 971 Also,
as stated in the SCI Proposal, the affirmative documentation required by Rule 1002(c)(2) is
important to allow the Commission to ensure that SCI entities are not improperly invoking the
limited exception provided by Rule 1002(c)(2). 972 This delayed dissemination provision permits
an SCI entity to delay providing information about an intrusion to its members or participants to
protect legitimate security concerns. However, under Rule 1002(c)(2), if an SCI entity cannot, or
968

See, e.g., supra notes 953-954 and accompanying text.

969

See Rule 1002(c)(4) (excepting de minimis systems intrusions and intrusions into market
regulation or market surveillance systems from the dissemination requirement) and Rule
1001(c)(2) (permitting a delay in dissemination).

970

The persons to whom the required information about a systems intrusion is to be
disseminated (provided the circumstances warranting a delay do not apply) is specified in
Rules 1002(c)(3) and (4).

971

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18120.

972

See id.

316

can no longer, determine that information dissemination as required by Rule 1002(c)(2) would
likely compromise the security of the SCI entity’s SCI systems or indirect SCI systems, or an
investigation of the systems intrusion, no delay (or further delay, if applicable) in dissemination
is permitted. 973 Pursuant to Rule 1002(c)(2), information about a systems intrusion is required to
be disseminated eventually, as the Commission believes that circumstances permitting a delay
(i.e., dissemination of information would likely compromise the security of the SCI entity’s SCI
systems or indirect SCI systems, or an investigation of the systems intrusion), will not continue
indefinitely. 974
Rule 1002(c)(3): To Whom Information Is to be Disseminated
Adopted Rule 1002(c)(3) provides that the information required to be provided under
Rules 1002(c)(1) and (2) promptly after any responsible SCI personnel has a reasonable basis to
conclude that an SCI event has occurred, shall be promptly disseminated by the SCI entity to
those members or participants of the SCI entity that any responsible SCI personnel has
reasonably estimated may have been affected by the SCI event, and promptly disseminated to
any additional members or participants that any responsible SCI personnel subsequently
reasonably estimates may have been affected by the SCI event. The rule further requires that, for
major SCI events, such information shall be disseminated by the SCI entity to all of its members
or participants. As noted, several commenters urged that an SCI entity be required to
disseminate information relating to an SCI event only to those members or participants affected
973

See id.

974

Some commenters urged modifications to the proposed rule that would further
circumscribe the proposed dissemination requirement for systems intrusions. See, e.g.,
supra notes 953-954 and accompanying text (urging that dissemination for systems
intrusions only be required for affected persons and only if material). These comments
are addressed in the discussion of adopted Rules 1002(c)(3) and (4).

317

by the SCI event. 975 Some suggested that an SCI entity have discretion to determine who should
receive information regarding SCI events, 976 and one suggested that SCI events warrant public
disclosure. 977 Others expressed more general concern that the breadth of the proposed
dissemination requirement would result in over-reporting of information about SCI events
because they believed that SCI entities would over-report out of an abundance of caution 978 or
that SCI entity members and participants would become immunized to reports of SCI events and
not focus on significant events. 979
After careful consideration of the comments, the Commission believes that, to maximize
the utility of information dissemination, a more tailored approach to who should receive
information about an SCI event is warranted, based on an SCI event’s impact. Because
information about an SCI event is likely to be of greatest value to those market participants
affected by it, who can use such information to evaluate the event’s impact on their trading and
other activities and develop an appropriate response, adopted Rule 1002(c)(3) requires prompt
dissemination to those members or participants of the SCI entity that any responsible SCI
personnel has reasonably estimated may have been affected by the SCI event. With respect to
more serious SCI events, however, the Commission believes that dissemination to all members
or participants of an SCI entity is warranted. Accordingly, under adopted Regulation SCI,
certain SCI events will be defined as “major SCI events.”

975

See supra note 940 and accompanying text.

976

See supra note 942 and accompanying text.

977

See supra notes 932-933 and accompanying text.

978

See supra note 943 and accompanying text.

979

See supra notes 943-944 and accompanying text.

318

Adopted Rule 1000 defines “major SCI event” as “an SCI event that has had, or the SCI
entity reasonably estimates would have: (1) any impact on a critical SCI system; or (2) a
significant impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants.” The Commission
believes that dissemination of information regarding a major SCI event to all members or
participants of an SCI entity is appropriate because major SCI events are likely to impact a large
number of market participants (e.g., with respect to critical SCI systems, a disruption of
consolidated market data or the clearance and settlement system, or an event significantly
impacting the operations of an exchange). 980 As noted, one commenter suggested broadening
the proposed rule to generally require an SCI entity to reveal dissemination SCI events (other
than intrusions) to the public at large. This commenter expressed the view that public
dissemination of the facts of an SCI event would help “enhance investor confidence by
presenting the facts of the SCI event, preventing speculation and misinformation, and informing
the public of corrective action being taken” and would “serve as an important collective learning
opportunity” that would allow for “SCI [e]ntities and market participants [to] learn from [the
event]…and build upon their policies and controls as appropriate.” This commenter stated
further that such an “industry protocol would help strengthen and enhance the integrity and
security of our markets.” 981 The Commission agrees with this commenter that it is appropriate
for an SCI entity to present the facts, prevent speculation and misinformation, and provide
transparency about corrective action being taken when the impact of an SCI event is most likely

980

At the same time, the Commission recognizes that some SCI events that meet the
definition of “major SCI event” could also qualify as de minimis SCI events. Like other
de minimis SCI events, they are excepted from the information dissemination
requirement. See Rule 1002(c)(4).

981

See supra notes 932-933.

319

to be felt by many market participants (i.e., when it is a major SCI event). In the context of a
major SCI event, the Commission believes these goals can be achieved by requiring an SCI
entity to disseminate information to all of its members or participants (as opposed to the “public
at large”). Moreover, the Commission believes it is appropriate to require dissemination of
information on major SCI events to all of the SCI entity’s members or participants because these
market participants are the most likely to act on this information. Based on the experience of the
Commission and its staff, when an entity disseminates information about a systems issue to all of
its members or participants (e.g., on the entity’s website), and that information has the potential
to affect the market and investors more broadly (including market participants that may not be
members or participants of the SCI entity reporting the event), such information is routinely
picked up by financial or other media outlets, and also may be relayed to market participants for
whom such information is relevant (e.g., by members or participants of SCI entities to their own
clients). Therefore, the Commission believes that when information about a systems issue with
broad potential impact is disseminated to all of an SCI entity’s member or participants, such
dissemination is tantamount to public dissemination. 982 As such, the Commission believes that it
can achieve the purposes of the rule without requiring public dissemination, and believes that
any additional gain in benefits from public dissemination would be minimal. Rule 1002(c)(3)
does not specify how an SCI entity is to disseminate information to all of its members or
participants when required to do so, but the Commission believes that posting the information on
982

The Commission notes that one commenter referred to the dissemination provision in the
SCI Proposal as the “public dissemination provision of Proposed Reg SCI.” See NYSE
Letter at 28. See also ICI Letter at 4 and Oppenheimer Letter at 4 (each supporting
“transparency of SCI events to members and participants of an SCI entity” but
recommending that the Commission only require “public dissemination” where such
information enhances investor protection).

320

a website accessible to, at a minimum, all of its member or participants (for example, on a
“systems status alerts” page) would meet the rule’s requirements. 983
For an SCI event that is neither a major SCI event nor an event identified in Rule
1002(c)(4), however, the information specified in Rule 1002(c)(1) or (2), as applicable, is
required to be disseminated by the SCI entity to those members or participants of the SCI entity
that any responsible SCI personnel has reasonably estimated may have been affected by the SCI
event. 984 The Commission believes that an SCI entity is generally in the best position to identify
those of its members or participants that are or are reasonably likely to be affected by such
events. Under this approach, as commenters urged, members or participants not reasonably
estimated to be affected by such events will not be the recipients of information likely to be
irrelevant to them. The Commission believes that SCI entities will be able to analyze which
members or participants are or reasonably likely will be impacted, and the rule requires SCI
entities to disseminate information to such members or participants. The requirement that
information is to be disseminated only to those members or participants that any responsible SCI
personnel has reasonably estimated may have been affected by the SCI event (other than a major
SCI event or a de minimis SCI event) addresses the concern raised by some commenters that

983

The Commission notes that, irrespective of the medium chosen to disseminate
information to the SCI entity members or participants, the SCI entity would also be
required to submit the disseminated information to the Commission as part of the report
submitted pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(4). See supra Section IV.B.3.c.

984

In response to the commenter seeking clarification on whether the term “participant”
refers to a formal participant or, more broadly speaking, any market participant that
interacts with the SCI system in question (see supra note 940), for purposes of adopted
Rule 1002, the term “participant” refers to a formal participant. The Commission also
notes that, with respect to the MSRB, the term “members” as used in Regulation SCI
includes entities that are registered with the MSRB, but does not include “a member of
the Board,” which is the definition of “member” in MSRB Rule D-5.

321

members and participants will become immunized by receiving irrelevant notifications 985
because, under the adopted approach, members or participants should only receive notifications
relevant to them.
Whereas the proposed rule would have required dissemination of information about
certain SCI events to all SCI entity members and participants, the adopted rule requires
dissemination only to those members and participants reasonably estimated to be affected by an
SCI event (other than a major SCI event or a de minimis SCI event). Because it is possible that
an SCI entity’s reasonable estimate of members or participants affected may change as an SCI
event unfolds, the adopted rule also requires prompt dissemination of information to newly
identified members or participants reasonably estimated to be affected by an SCI event. 986 This
provision reflects the view that newly identified affected members or participants should receive
prompt dissemination of information about an SCI event, just as those originally identified as
affected members or participants. Although compliance with this requirement may result in an
SCI entity disseminating information at several different times to different members and
participants, consistent with commenters’ suggestions, the Commission believes that this
requirement is appropriately tailored to result in information dissemination being provided to the
relevant members or participants of an SCI entity. 987

985

See supra notes 944 and 952 and accompanying text.

986

Rule 1002(c)(1) requires that, among other things, the SCI entity must disseminate the
SCI entity’s current assessment of the types and number of market participants
potentially affected by the SCI event, and until resolved, provide regular updates of this
and any other information required to be disseminated under the rule.

987

The Commission notes that an SCI entity would be in compliance with the rule if it
disseminated the required information to all members or participants, rather than
disseminating only to those members and participants it reasonably initially estimated to
be affected by the event (which might require subsequent dissemination(s) to additional
322

If an SCI event is a de minimis event – i.e., is an SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity
reasonably estimates would have, no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on
market participants – the adopted rule does not impose any dissemination requirement. 988
Adopted Rule 1002(c)(4): Exceptions to the General Rules on Information Dissemination
Adopted Rule 1002(c)(4) provides that the requirements of Rules 1002(c)(1)-(3) shall not
apply to: (i) SCI events to the extent they relate to market regulation or market surveillance
systems; or (ii) any SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have,
no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants. The
Commission has added the exception in adopted Rule 1002(c)(4)(i) in response to comments that
information should not be disseminated regarding disruptions in regulation and surveillance
systems, because dissemination of such information to an SCI entity’s members or participants
or the public at large could encourage prohibited market activity. 989 The Commission notes that
the exception for market regulation or market surveillance systems is limited to dissemination of
information about SCI events related to market regulation or market surveillance systems.
Information about an SCI event that impacts other SCI systems would still be required to be

members or participants if its estimate regarding those members or participants that were
affected by a given SCI event changes over time).
988

See discussion of adopted Rule 1002(c)(4) below (excepting, among other things, de
minimis systems SCI events from the dissemination requirement). See also supra Section
IV.B.3.c (discussing Rule 1002(b)(5), which requires that, for de minimis SCI events, an
SCI entity is required to: (i) make, keep, and preserve records relating to all such SCI
events; and (ii) submit to the Commission a report, within 30 calendar days after the end
of each calendar quarter, containing a summary description of such systems disruptions
and systems intrusions, including the SCI systems and, for systems intrusions, indirect
SCI systems, affected by such systems disruptions and systems intrusions during the
applicable calendar quarter).

989

See supra notes 955-956 and accompanying text.

323

disseminated in accordance with Rule 1002(c) even if that same SCI event also impacts market
regulation or market surveillance systems.
The exception in Rule 1002(c)(4)(ii) for de minimis SCI events is consistent with the
Commission’s approach to excluding de minimis SCI events from the immediate Commission
notification requirements in Rule 1002(b), and is therefore responsive to comment that
notification and dissemination of systems disruptions were subject to differing standards under
the proposal, 990 as well as to the comment that a de minimis SCI event should not be subject to
dissemination. 991 With respect to the comment that dissemination should only be required for
material or significant SCI events, 992 while the Commission is not limiting the dissemination
requirement as suggested by these commenters, the exception for de minimis SCI events is
responsive to this comment, to an extent. Moreover, the Commission believes that a materiality
threshold would likely exclude from the information dissemination requirement a large number
of SCI events that are not de minimis SCI events, but that an SCI entity’s members or
participants should be made aware of so that they can quickly assess the nature and scope of
those SCI events and identify the appropriate response, including ways to mitigate the impact of
the SCI events. The Commission also believes that, even without adopting a materiality
threshold, the adopted definitions of SCI systems and indirect SCI systems significantly focus
the scope of the Commission dissemination requirements from the SCI Proposal.

990

See supra notes 949-950 and accompanying text.

991

See supra notes 947-948 and accompanying text; Section IV.B.3.c (discussing Rule
1002(b)) and supra note 988 and accompanying text. The Commission notes that,
because major SCI events are a subset of SCI events, the exception in Rule 1002(c)(4)(ii)
also applies to major SCI events that meet the requirements of that rule.

992

See supra note 946 and accompanying text; see also supra notes 941 and 944 and
accompanying text.

324

Consistent with its statements in the SCI Proposal, the Commission notes that the
requirements relating to dissemination of information in Regulation SCI relate solely to
Regulation SCI. 993 Nothing in adopted Regulation SCI should be construed as superseding,
altering, or affecting the reporting obligations of SCI entities or their affiliates under other
federal securities laws or regulations. Accordingly, in the case of an SCI event, SCI entities or
their affiliates subject to the public company reporting requirements of Section 13 or Section
15(d) of the Exchange Act would need to comply with their disclosure obligations pursuant to
those provisions (including, for example, with respect to Regulation S-K and Forms 10-K, 10-Q,
and 8-K) in addition to their disclosure and reporting obligations under Regulation SCI. 994 In
addition, the Commission also wishes to highlight that the requirements of Rule 1002(c) address
to whom and when SCI entities are obligated under Regulation SCI to disseminate information.
Subject to any applicable laws or regulations, SCI entities still retain the flexibility to
disseminate information—e.g., to their members or participants, the public, or market
participants that interact with the affected SCI systems—at any time they determine to be
appropriate.

993

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18119, n. 235.

994

As an additional example, nothing in adopted Regulation SCI should be construed as
superseding any obligations under Regulation FD. SCI entities may also wish to consider
staff guidance on this topic. See CF Disclosure Guidance: Topic No. 2, Cybersecurity
(October 13, 2011), available at:
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/corpfin/guidance/cfguidance-topic2.htm.

325

4.

Notification of Systems Changes – Rule 1003(a)
a.

Proposed Definition of Material Systems Change, Proposed
Rules 1000(b)(6) and (b)(8)(ii)

Proposed Rule 1000(a) would have defined the term “material systems change” as a
change to one or more: (1) SCI systems of an SCI entity that: (i) materially affects the existing
capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, or security of such systems; (ii) relies upon materially
new or different technology; (iii) provides a new material service or material function; or (iv)
otherwise materially affects the operations of the SCI entity; or (2) SCI security systems of an
SCI entity that materially affects the existing security of such systems. In the SCI Proposal, the
Commission set forth examples that it preliminarily believed could be included within the
proposed definition of material systems change. 995
Proposed Rule 1000(b)(6)(i) would have required an SCI entity, absent exigent
circumstances, to notify the Commission in writing at least 30 calendar days before
implementation of any planned material systems changes, including a description of the planned
material systems changes as well as the expected dates of commencement and completion of
implementation of such changes. If exigent circumstances existed, or if the information
previously provided to the Commission regarding any planned material systems change had

995

These examples included: major systems architecture changes; reconfiguration of
systems that would cause a variation greater than five percent in throughput or storage;
the introduction of new business functions or services; changes to external interfaces;
changes that could increase susceptibility to major outages; changes that could increase
risks to data security; changes that were, or would be, reported to or referred to the
entity’s board of directors, a body performing a function similar to the board of directors,
or senior management; and changes that could require allocation or use of significant
resources. See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18105-06. These examples were
cited in the 2001 Staff ARP Interpretive Letter. The Commission also stated its
preliminary belief that any systems change occurring as a result of the discovery of an
actual or potential systems compliance issue would be material. See id.

326

become materially inaccurate, proposed Rule 1000(b)(6)(ii) would have required the SCI entity
to notify the Commission, either orally or in writing, with any oral notification to be
memorialized within 24 hours after such oral notification by a written notification, as early as
reasonably practicable. A written notification to the Commission made pursuant to proposed
Rule 1000(b)(6) would have been required to be made electronically on Form SCI and include
all information as prescribed in Form SCI and the instructions thereto.
Proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(ii) would have required each SCI entity to submit to the
Commission a report, within 30 calendar days after the end of June and December of each year,
containing a summary description of the progress of any material systems change during the six
month period ending on June 30 or December 31, as the case may be, and the date, or expected
date, of completion of implementation of such changes. A written notification to the
Commission made pursuant to proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(ii) would have been required to be
made electronically on Form SCI and include all information as prescribed in Form SCI and the
instructions thereto.
b.

Quarterly and Supplemental Material Systems Change
Reports – Rule 1003(a)
i.

Adopted Rule 1003(a)(1): Quarterly Material Systems
Change Reports

Many commenters viewed the proposed 30-day advance notification requirement for
material systems changes as burdensome. 996 For example, one commenter believed that the
Commission significantly underestimated the number of material systems changes, and

996

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 26; BATS Letter at 14; ISE Letter at 8; BIDS Letter at 14; UBS
Letter at 3-4; SIFMA Letter at 15; ITG Letter at 8 and 13; FIF Letter at 5; MFA Letter at
5-6; CME Letter at 11; FINRA Letter at 27; Joint SROs Letter at 7; and OTC Markets
Letter at 20.

327

suggested that the proposal might require reporting of as many as 60 material systems changes
per week, rather than that same amount per year, as the Commission estimated in the SCI
Proposal. 997 Some commenters stated that many SCI entities implement frequent agile
modifications rather than major episodic or “waterfall” changes, and therefore viewed the
proposed 30-day advance notification requirement as favoring a model that employs waterfall
changes over agile changes. 998 Several commenters stated more broadly that the proposed
requirement would mandate constant reporting that would stifle innovation, interfere with an SCI
entity’s natural planning and development process, and potentially do more harm than good by
curtailing an SCI entity’s ability to respond to systems issues with appropriate fixes. 999 Several
commenters also expressed concern that the burden of reporting would incentivize an SCI entity
to change its systems less often instead of making smaller and more frequent iterative systems
adjustments, which they believed would be inconsistent with current software best practices,
curtail innovation, and expose their systems to increased risk. 1000 One commenter questioned the
purpose of the proposed requirement, stating that the Commission has not presented any
empirical evidence that major or material technology changes by SCI entities are in fact the
leading cause of market disruption, and that non-material systems changes by SCI entities and
997

See BATS Letter at 14. See also NYSE Letter at 26; and ISE Letter at 8 (stating that the
proposal would require reporting of too many routine changes), and infra discussion of
the definition of material systems change.

998

See KCG Letter at 19; FIF Letter at 5; UBS Letter at 4; and ITG Letter at 8. “Agile”
software development, which involves smaller, more frequent changes in software code,
is contrasted with the “waterfall” methodology, which involves larger, episodic software
overhauls.

999

See KCG Letter at 19; FIF Letter at 5; UBS Letter at 4; BATS Letter at 14; and ITG
Letter at 8. See also SunGard Letter at 3.

1000

See KCG Letter at 19; FIF Letter at 5; UBS Letter at 4; BATS Letter at 14; and ITG
Letter at 8. See also SIFMA Letter at 16.

328

non-SCI entities have a high likelihood of causing market disruptions, but they are not captured
by the proposal. 1001 At the same time, this commenter stated that providing 30-day advance
notification of these non-material systems changes would hamstring SCI entities. 1002
Some commenters also noted that Regulation ATS already requires an ATS to report
material changes to the operation of the ATS at least 20 calendar days prior to their
implementation. 1003 One of these commenters noted that it is common for an ATS to finalize the
systems specifications for a change close to when the ATS wants to go live with the change, but
the ATS must wait 20 days before implementation, and occasionally the questions from
Commission staff can further delay implementation. 1004 This commenter expressed concern that
Regulation SCI would lengthen the notification requirement to 30 calendar days and broaden the
requirement to include any significant systems change, not just a material change to the
operation of the ATS. 1005
The Commission continues to believe that it is important to receive notifications of
planned and implemented material changes to SCI systems or the security of indirect SCI
systems in connection with its oversight of U.S. securities market infrastructure. 1006 However,

1001

See SunGard Letter at 3.

1002

See id.

1003

See BIDS Letter at 14; and ITG Letter at 8.

1004

See ITG Letter at 8.

1005

See id.

1006

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18122, 18144. As noted above, one commenter
argued that the Commission has not presented any empirical evidence that major or
material technology changes by SCI entities are in fact the leading cause of market
disruption, and that non-material systems changes have a high likelihood of causing
market disruptions. See supra note 1001 and accompanying text. The Commission notes
that the primary purpose of Rule 1003(a) is not to prevent market disruptions. Rather, it
is to keep the Commission and its staff informed of the systems changes that SCI entities
329

after considering the views of commenters regarding the 30-day advance notification
requirement, the Commission is instead adopting a quarterly reporting requirement, which will
permit the Commission and its staff to have up-to-date information regarding an SCI entity’s
systems development progress and plans, to aid in understanding the operations and functionality
of the systems and any material changes thereto, without requiring SCI entities to submit a
notification to the Commission for each material systems change. 1007 Specifically, Rule
1003(a)(1) requires an SCI entity, within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter,
to submit to the Commission a report describing completed, ongoing, and planned material
systems changes to its SCI systems and security of indirect SCI systems, during the prior,
current, and subsequent calendar quarters, including the dates or expected dates of
commencement and completion. 1008

determine to be material, which will assist the Commission with its oversight of U.S.
securities market infrastructure. While the Commission acknowledges that non-material
systems changes could cause market disruptions, the Commission agrees with this
commenter that requiring Commission notification of all systems changes would be
burdensome. See supra note 1002 and accompanying text (noting this commenter’s view
that providing 30-day advance notification of non-material systems changes would
hamstring SCI entities).
1007

As discussed in more detail below, the Commission is also not adopting the proposed
definition of material systems change or the proposed semi-annual reporting requirement.

1008

Using the quarter ending December 31, 2014 as an example, an SCI entity would be
required to submit a report by January 30, 2015 (i.e., within 30 calendar days after
December 31, 2014) that describes material systems changes that the SCI entity has made
(including the dates when those changes commenced and were completed), are currently
implementing (including the dates when those changes commenced and are expected to
be completed), and plan to make (including the dates those changes are expected to
commence and complete) for the period from October 1, 2014 (the beginning of the prior
calendar quarter) through June 30, 2015 (the end of the subsequent calendar quarter).
The next report that corresponds to the quarter ending March 31, 2015 would be required
to be submitted by April 30, 2015. As discussed in more detail below, Rule 1003(a)(2)
requires an SCI entity to promptly submit a supplemental report notifying the
330

The Commission believes that elimination of the 30-day advance notification requirement
for material systems changes is responsive to commenters who were concerned that the proposed
approach was unsuited to the agile systems development methodology that some SCI entities use
today. In particular, an SCI entity will have the ability to implement material systems changes
without having to individually report each material systems change to the Commission 30 days
in advance, which commenters noted could lead SCI entities to favor the waterfall methodology
of systems changes over the agile methodology. 1009 The Commission also believes that the
adopted quarterly reporting requirement provides more flexibility to SCI entities with respect to
the timing of implementing material systems changes. In particular, SCI entities will not be
required to wait 30 calendar days after notifying the Commission in order to implement a
material systems change. Therefore, the adopted rule is responsive to commenters who stated
that the proposed rule would stifle innovation, interfere with an entity’s planning and
development process, and expose SCI entities’ systems to risk. Moreover, the Commission
believes that elimination of the proposed 30-day advance notification requirement is responsive
to commenters’ concern that ATSs are already required to report material changes to the

Commission of a material error in or material omission from a report previously
submitted under Rule 1003(a)(1).
1009

At the same time, because systems changes utilizing the waterfall methodology are often
planned well in advance, these systems changes would generally be included in the
quarterly report, as Rule 1003(a) requires the quarterly report to describe, among other
things, planned material systems changes during the subsequent calendar quarter.
However, this requirement of Rule 1003(a) is not limited to planned material systems
changes utilizing the waterfall methodology, but also would apply to planned material
systems changes utilizing other development methodologies, including the agile
methodology.
331

operation of the ATSs at least 20 calendar days prior to implementation, and that proposed
Regulation SCI would extend the advance notification period to 30 calendar days. 1010
The Commission also believes that adopting the quarterly reporting requirement instead
of the 30-day advance notification requirement lessens SCI entities’ burden of compliance as
compared to the proposal. 1011 For example, rather than submitting a Form SCI for each material
systems change, an SCI entity is now required to submit four reports each year pursuant to Rule
1003(a)(1) and, as applicable, supplemental reports pursuant to Rule 1003(a)(2). To the extent
certain material systems changes are related or similar, an SCI entity will not be required to
separately notify the Commission of each change. Instead, the SCI entity can describe such
related changes within the single quarterly report. The Commission also believes that this
quarterly report process will provide the Commission and its staff with a more efficient
framework to review material systems changes that are described in the larger context afforded
by such periodic reports, rather than parsing every submission that reports a material systems
change. 1012

1010

The Commission notes that the adoption of Rule 1003(a) does not affect an SCI ATS’s
existing obligation under Rule 301(b)(2)(ii) of Regulation ATS to file amendments on
Form ATS at least 20 calendar days prior to implementing material change to the
operation of the ATS. Therefore, with respect to a material systems change, an SCI ATS
may be required to describe such change in a quarterly report under Rule 1003(a) and
submit an amendment to Form ATS.

1011

See supra notes 996-997 and accompanying text.

1012

The Commission acknowledges that some systems changes deployed by an SCI entity
may not by themselves be considered material by the SCI entity, but that, in the
aggregate, can be considered material by the SCI entity (e.g., making a series of small
systems changes over time in order to implement a broad systems change). The
Commission believes that the adopted quarterly reporting requirement is better suited to
capture such changes than the proposed 30-day advance notification requirement (i.e., 30day advance notification for each single systems change that is by itself considered
material by the SCI entity).

332

One commenter expressed concern that the proposed exception for exigent circumstances
was too narrow. 1013 Because adopted Rule 1003(a)(1) requires quarterly reports of material
systems changes rather than 30-day advance notification of each material systems change, the
Commission is not adopting the proposed “exigent circumstances” exception. Specifically, the
Commission notes that the purpose of the exception was to accommodate situations where it
would not be prudent or desirable for an SCI entity to delay a systems change simply to provide
30-day advance notification of the change. At the same time, the Commission notes that,
because Rule 1003(a)(1) requires in part a description of completed, ongoing, and planned
material systems changes during the prior and current calendar quarters, an SCI entity’s quarterly
report will be required to include a description of all material changes to its SCI systems or the
security of its indirect SCI systems, including those that have been implemented in response to
exigent circumstances during the prior and current calendar quarters.
Several commenters suggested possible alternatives to the proposed requirements related
to material systems changes. Some commenters suggested eliminating the proposed advance
notification requirement for material systems changes. 1014 One of these commenters explained
that information regarding material systems changes would be available to the Commission
during an inspection, but stated that, if an advance notification requirement is adopted, it should
be folded into the proposed semi-annual reporting requirement. 1015 Another commenter
similarly urged that the Commission require only semi-annual reporting of material systems

1013

See BATS Letter at 15.

1014

See MFA Letter at 7 and ITG Letter at 13-14. See also Joint SROs Letter at 8 (stating
that material systems changes should be reported in a periodic, post-hoc basis, as was
required under ARP).

1015

See MFA Letter at 7.

333

changes, as proposed in Rule 1000(b)(8). 1016 One commenter supported the reporting of material
systems changes in the annual SCI review report. 1017 One commenter believed that information
related to systems changes should be reported periodically. 1018 Another commenter noted that if
the Commission retains the 30-day advance notification requirement, it should be limited to
material systems changes of only higher priority SCI systems and that notifications of changes to
lower criticality systems could be provided at the time of the change or periodically. 1019
Some commenters suggested that the Commission provide more flexibility and allow SCI
entities more time to report material systems changes. 1020 One commenter supported giving SCI
entities discretion to determine the appropriate timing and format for reporting changes to the
Commission, and stated that the current practice under ARP to submit quarterly reports that
cover changes for the previous and upcoming quarters has proven effective in keeping the
Commission staff apprised of planned and completed systems changes. 1021
One commenter suggested that SCI entities be required to keep records of all systems
changes and technical issues, and make that information available to the Commission upon

1016

See Direct Edge Letter at 8.

1017

See CME Letter at 11.

1018

See NYSE Letter at 27.

1019

See SIFMA Letter at 15.

1020

See NYSE Letter at 27; FINRA Letter at 27; and MSRB Letter at 22. See also CME
Letter at 11 (stating “instead of setting firm time limits under which an entity is required
to submit notifications of material systems changes under Rule 1000(b)(6), the
Commission should instead simply require ‘timely advance notice of all material planned
changes to SCI systems that may impact the reliability, security, or adequate scalable
capacity of such systems’”).

1021

See FINRA Letter at 27.

334

request. 1022 If the Commission decides to retain the notification requirement, this commenter
recommended that it be satisfied through periodic (ideally, quarterly) reporting of material
systems changes. 1023 One commenter believed the Commission should allow all 30-day advance
notifications regarding pending material systems changes to be communicated orally, and only
submitted in writing after development and testing is completed and the feature is finalized. 1024
The Commission believes that the adopted quarterly reporting requirement is responsive
to commenters who requested additional flexibility or time for material systems change
notifications, as well as to commenters who suggested that such notices be submitted on a
periodic or quarterly basis. 1025 The Commission does not agree with the commenters who
suggested that the Commission completely eliminate the advance notification requirements. The
Commission believes that advance notifications of planned material systems changes will help
ensure that the Commission has up-to-date information regarding important future systems
changes at an SCI entity, to aid in its understanding of the operations and functionality of the
systems post-change. 1026 As adopted, Rule 1003(a)(1) requires an SCI entity to provide the

1022

See OTC Markets Letter at 20.

1023

See id. This commenter also noted that this would allow for the elimination of proposed
Rule 1000(b)(6)(ii), which required notices for material inaccuracies in prior
notifications. See OTC Markets Letter at 20-22. According to this commenter, quarterly
updates would disclose material deviations from plans described in a previous report,
whether stemming from inaccuracies in prior reports or new information that prompts
beneficial deviations from a systems implementation plan. See id.

1024

See Omgeo Letter at 22.

1025

Because the Commission is only adopting a quarterly reporting requirement for material
systems changes, the adopted approach is responsive to a commenter’s suggestion that
notifications of changes to lower criticality systems could be provided at the time of the
change or periodically. See supra note 1019 and accompanying text.

1026

The Commission acknowledges that there may occasionally be unexpected material
systems changes that are not reported to the Commission in advance, but expects that
335

Commission with advance notification of planned material systems changes in the current and
subsequent quarters through the quarterly reports. As noted above, after considering the views of
commenters, the Commission is not adopting the proposed 30-day advance notification
requirement for each material systems change.
The Commission is also not adopting commenters’ suggestion that material systems
changes be reported semi-annually or annually. 1027 As noted in the SCI Proposal, proposed Rule
1000(b)(8)(ii) required semi-annual reports because the proposal would have separately required
information relating to each planned material systems change to be submitted at least 30 calendar
days before its implementation. 1028 Thus, in the SCI Proposal, the Commission stated its
preliminary view that requiring ongoing summary reports more frequently would not be
necessary. 1029 At the same time, the Commission expressed the concern that a longer period of
time would permit significant updates and milestones relating to systems changes to occur
without notice to the Commission.1030 Because the Commission is not adopting the 30-day
advance notification requirement, the Commission believes that it is appropriate to require more
frequent reports of material systems changes than on a semi-annual basis. Further, as noted
above, some commenters suggested quarterly reports, which is consistent with the practice of
some entities under the ARP Inspection Program. 1031

material systems changes generally will be planned well in advance and reported in the
quarterly report accordingly.
1027

See supra notes 1015-1017 and accompanying text.

1028

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18124.

1029

See id.

1030

See id.

1031

See supra notes 1021, 1023 and accompanying text.

336

The Commission does not agree with the commenter who suggested that Regulation SCI
should only require SCI entities to keep records of all systems changes and make that
information available to the Commission upon request. 1032 Similarly, the Commission does not
agree with commenters who suggested that SCI entities be given discretion to determine the
timing of the reports. 1033 The Commission believes that quarterly reporting of material systems
changes will help ensure that the Commission has, on an ongoing basis, a comprehensive view
and up-to-date information regarding material systems changes at an SCI entity.
With respect to the commenter who suggested that all 30-day advance material systems
change notifications should be provided orally, and submitted in writing only after the changes
are fully tested and implemented, 1034 the Commission notes that it is not adopting the proposed
30-day advance notification requirement for material systems changes.
With respect to the commenter who suggested giving SCI entities discretion to determine
the format for reporting changes to the Commission, 1035 the Commission notes that Rule 1003(a)
does not prescribe a specific style that the quarterly reports should take. The Commission
intends for the quarterly report to allow the Commission and its staff to gain a sufficient level of
understanding of the material systems changes that have been implemented, are on-going, and
are planned for the future, which would aid the Commission and its staff in understanding the

1032

See supra note 1022 and accompanying text. As discussed above, this commenter also
stated that, if the Commission decides to retain the notification requirement for material
systems changes, the Commission should require periodic (ideally, quarterly) reporting.
See supra note 1023 and accompanying text. Adopted Rule 1003(a)(1) is consistent with
this commenter’s alternative suggestion.

1033

See supra note 1021 and accompanying text. See also supra note 1020.

1034

See supra note 1024 and accompanying text.

1035

See supra note 1021 and accompanying text.

337

operations and functionality of the systems of an SCI entity and any changes to such systems. In
particular, the Commission notes that Rule 1003(a)(1) only specifically requires the quarterly
reports to “describe” the material systems changes and the dates or expected dates of their
commencement and completion. Therefore, Rule 1003(a)(1) gives each SCI entity reasonable
flexibility in determining precisely how to describe its material systems changes in the report in a
manner that best suits the needs of that SCI entity as well as the needs of the Commission and its
staff. 1036 In addition, to the extent the Commission seeks additional information about a given
change noted in a quarterly report, an SCI entity would be required to provide Commission staff
with such information in accordance with Rule 1005 (Recordkeeping Requirements Related to
Compliance with Regulation SCI). 1037
The Commission also notes that the quarterly reports are required to include descriptions
of material systems changes during the prior calendar quarter that were completed, ongoing, or
planned. Therefore, if a report for the first quarter of a given year discusses the SCI entity’s plan
to implement a particular series of material changes to an SCI system, Rule 1003(a)(1) requires
that, in the report for the second quarter of that year, the SCI entity describe the material systems
changes that were completed, ongoing, and planned in the first quarter, including the planned
changes discussed in the prior quarter’s report, as applicable.
Several commenters expressed concern that the proposed 30-day advance notification
requirement would potentially give the Commission new authority to “reject” a Form SCI filing
describing material systems changes, similar to the way the Commission may reject an

1036

See also Omgeo Letter at 43 (requesting that the Commission specify in the final rule the
required content for a planned material systems change notification).

1037

See infra Section IV.C.

338

improperly filed proposed rule change pursuant to Rule 19b-4 under the Exchange Act. 1038
Three commenters requested that the Commission clarify how proposed Rule 1000(b)(6) would
relate to Rule 19b-4, suggesting that there may be unnecessary redundancy between the two
processes. 1039 Another commenter suggested limiting the types of changes that would require
30-day advance notification to those changes that are already required to be filed with the
Commission as proposed rule changes for immediate effectiveness under Section 19(b)(3)(A) of
the Exchange Act (excluding those filings that would not become operative for 30 days after the
date of the filing because those filings would already provide the Commission with 30 days’
advance notification of the material systems changes). 1040 This commenter also noted that where
a material systems change would be filed for approval under Section 19(b)(2) of the Exchange
Act, the Section 19(b)(2) approval process provides the Commission sufficient notification of the
systems change. 1041 One commenter stated that proposed Rule 1000(b)(6) was improperly
premised on the notion that the Commission should be responsible for a minutely-detailed
understanding of the IT infrastructure of SCI entities and for assessing prospective changes in
advance of their implementation. 1042

1038

See Omgeo Letter at 23; and SIFMA Letter at 16. See Section 19(b) of the Exchange
Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b).

1039

See KCG Letter at 19; Joint SROs Letter at 8; and FIF Letter at 5.

1040

See MSRB Letter at 22.

1041

See MSRB Letter at 22. This commenter also suggested that material systems changes
(other than those filed pursuant to Rule 19b-4 under the Exchange Act) be reported semiannually, or that de minimis changes be excepted from the notice requirement altogether
if the Commission continues to require 30-day advance notification. See MSRB Letter at
22-23. As discussed above, the Commission is adopting a quarterly reporting
requirement for systems changes that an SCI entity determines to be material.

1042

See Direct Edge Letter at 1, 8. See also ITG Letter at 13-14 (stating that the Exchange
Act does not enable the Commission to “bootstrap its SRO rule review authority or its
339

The Commission disagrees with commenters who believed that material systems change
reports are redundant given the rule filing requirements of Rule 19b-4 under the Exchange Act,
or that material systems change reports should not be required if the SCI entity submitted certain
types of rule filings regarding the same change. 1043 The Commission acknowledges that some
systems changes require proposed rule changes under Rule 19b-4, and some Rule 19b-4
proposed rule changes result in systems changes. However, based on Commission staff’s
experience with the ARP Inspection Program and the rule filing process, the Commission
believes that the type of information regarding systems changes included in rule filings is
different from the type of information that will be included in reports on material systems
changes. In particular, the technical details or specifications of SCI systems and indirect SCI
systems are generally not specifically set forth in the rules of an SCI SRO. Therefore, technical
information regarding systems changes is usually not set forth in rule filings. In addition, the
Commission notes that the rule filing process and the material systems change reports serve
different purposes. In particular, the material systems change reports are intended to inform the
Commission and its staff of important technical changes to an SCI entity’s systems. On the other
hand, the rule filing process provides notice of changes to an SCI entity’s rules, including, for
example, the statutory basis for such changes, and in some cases seeks approval by the

national market system authority to force regulated entities to submit upcoming material
systems changes for agency approval” and that “the Commission need only receive
notifications when they are a significant part of proposed rule changes by SROs or
amendments to Form ATS of material changes to the operation of the ATS”).
1043

See supra notes 1039-1041 and accompanying text. The Commission notes that the
requirement under Regulation SCI to submit reports of material systems changes does not
alter an SRO’s obligation to file proposed rule changes, the obligation of participants of
an SCI Plan to file a proposed amendment to such SCI Plan, or any other obligation any
SCI entity may have under the Exchange Act or rules thereunder.

340

Commission of the rule changes. Therefore, if an SCI SRO submits a rule filing regarding a
particular systems change and the change is also included in a material systems change report,
the information included in the rule filing may not necessarily further the goal of the material
systems change reporting requirement, and the information included in the material systems
change report may not necessarily assist in the Commission’s review of the rule filing.
Moreover, commenters’ concern regarding the redundancy between the rule filing process and
the material systems change reports stemmed from concerns regarding the 30-day advance
notification requirement. As discussed above, the Commission is not adopting a 30-day advance
notification requirement.
The Commission also reiterates that the material systems change reports are intended to
inform the Commission and its staff of such changes and help the Commission in its oversight of
U.S. securities market infrastructure. Regulation SCI does not provide for a new approval
process for SCI entities’ material systems changes. As such, Commission staff will not use
material systems change reports to require any approval of prospective systems changes in
advance of their implementation pursuant to any provision of Regulation SCI, 1044 or to delay
implementation of material systems changes pursuant to any provision of Regulation SCI. 1045
Three commenters questioned the Commission’s legal authority to adopt the proposed
material systems change notification requirements, including, in particular, those set forth in
proposed Rule 1000(b)(6). 1046 For the reasons discussed above in Section IV.B.3.c, the

1044

See supra note 1042 and accompanying text.

1045

See supra note 1038 and accompanying text.

1046

See NYSE Letter at 4 (stating the belief that “[a]uthority to facilitate a national market or
assure economically efficient execution of securities transaction is remote from close,
minute regulation of computer systems and computer security”); ITG Letter at 13 (stating
341

Commission disagrees with these comments and believes that adopted Rule 1003(a) will assist
the Commission in its oversight of U.S. securities market infrastructure consistent with its legal
authority under the Exchange Act.
In light of the 30-day advance notification requirement in proposed Rule 1000(b)(6),
some commenters suggested eliminating the semi-annual reporting requirement in proposed Rule
1000(b)(8)(ii) because they considered it duplicative and unnecessary. 1047 One commenter
believed that the required semi-annual reporting requirement was excessive and should instead
be incorporated into the annual reporting obligations in proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(i). 1048 As
discussed above, the Commission is adopting a quarterly reporting requirement under Rule
1003(a)(1) and is not adopting the proposed 30-day advance notification requirement. Therefore,
the Commission is not adopting the requirement in proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(ii) for semi-annual
progress reports.
ii.

Definition of Material Systems Change

Commenters generally opposed the proposed definition of material systems change.
Many commenters stated their belief that the term was too broad and would therefore necessitate

the belief that the proposed notification requirement for material systems changes “would
extend the SEC’s reach far beyond that of a securities regulator and instead enable it to
regulate the IT process of marketplace participants” and that the Exchange Act does not
enable the Commission to “bootstrap its SRO rule review authority or its national market
system authority to force regulated entities to submit upcoming material systems changes
for agency approval”); and KCG Letter at 19 (stating the belief that “[t]he Commission
does not have authority to stop implementation of systems changes by ATSs or systems
changes that exchanges are not required to submit under Section 19(b) of the Exchange
Act”).
1047

See Omgeo Letter at 24-25; and OCC Letter at 16.

1048

See CME Letter at 11.

342

an excessive number of notifications of material systems changes. 1049 Some commenters
believed that the definition should be revised and offered a variety of suggestions. 1050 Several
commenters advocated for creating a risk-based definition whereby, for example, notifications
are only required for those material systems changes that pose a risk to critical operations of an
entity. 1051 One commenter suggested that the requirement focus on SCI systems only. 1052 One
commenter stated that SCI entities should be afforded flexibility to establish reasonable
standards for defining material systems changes for their systems. 1053
Several commenters sought guidance from the Commission on the materiality threshold,
which commenters believed was unclear, explaining, for example, that the term “material”
appears both in the term “material systems change” and in the definition of that term. 1054
1049

See, e.g., BATS Letter at 14; MFA Letter at 6; ICI Letter at 4; BIDS Letter at 14;
Liquidnet Letter at 3; FINRA Letter at 24-26; MSRB Letter at 22; NYSE Letter at 26-27;
Joint SROs Letter at 7; CME Letter at 5; Oppenheimer Letter at 3; OTC Markets Letter at
20-21; and Direct Edge Letter at 3.

1050

See, e.g., BATS Letter at 14-15 (recommending that only those material systems changes
that are reported to an SCI entity’s board of directors or similar body should be required
to be reported to the Commission, which BATS stated is the standard it uses currently for
the ARP Inspection Program); OCC Letter at 15 (stating that the reporting of systems
changes to the board of directors, or to a similar governing body, is a more appropriate
standard for determining materiality than reporting to “senior management”); BIDS
Letter at 14-15 (stating its belief that the Commission should define a “material systems
change” to be a large-scale architectural upgrade, the implementation of industry-wide
rules or other market structure changes, or other technology changes that may be required
because of changes in trading rules defined in the exchange’s or the ATS’s trading rule
book); and FIF Letter at 5 (recommending that the term be defined to include significant
functional enhancements, major technology infrastructure changes, or changes requiring
member/participant notifications).

1051

See, e.g., OCC Letter at 15; DTCC Letter at 16; Liquidnet Letter at 3; MFA Letter at 6;
ICI Letter at 4; CME Letter at 5; and Direct Edge at 4.

1052

See NYSE Letter at 27.

1053

See FINRA Letter at 27.

1054

See Direct Edge Letter at 3-4; OCC Letter at 15; and NYSE Letter at 26.

343

Similarly, several commenters requested that the Commission provide more guidance on the
meaning of “material” in the context of systems changes because, although the wording of the
proposed definition contained the concept of “materiality,” the commenters believed some of the
examples provided in the SCI Proposal to be non-material. 1055 One commenter asked that the
Commission clearly define what types of systems changes are not subject to the prior notification
requirement in order to avoid receiving notices of all systems changes, material or otherwise. 1056
One commenter asked that the Commission clarify the meaning of “material” and confirm that
prior notification would not be required for changes that do not pertain to the production
environment. 1057
Rather than adopting a detailed definition of material systems change as proposed, Rule
1003(a)(1) requires an SCI entity to establish reasonable written criteria for identifying a change
to its SCI systems and the security of indirect SCI systems as material and to report to the
Commission those changes the SCI entity identified as material in accordance with such criteria.
This change is responsive to a commenter’s suggestion that SCI entities should be granted
flexibility to establish reasonable standards for determining whether a systems change is
material. In addition, the Commission does not believe that it is appropriate to adopt a precise
definition for the term “material systems change” because SCI entities differ in nature, size,
technology, business model, and other aspects of their businesses. The Commission notes that
there currently is no industry definition of “material systems change” that is applicable to all SCI

1055

See, e.g., Joint SROs Letter at 7; DTCC Letter at 15-16; Omgeo Letter at 23; OCC Letter
at 15; FINRA Letter at 27; OTC Markets Letter at 20-21; BIDS Letter at 14; Direct Edge
Letter at 3-4; and ISE Letter at 8. See also supra note 1050.

1056

See KCG Letter at 20.

1057

See SIFMA Letter at 15-16.

344

entities that can serve as the basis for a precise definition of the term “material systems change”
in Regulation SCI, and believes that whether a systems change is material is dependent on the
facts and circumstances, such as the reason for the change and how it may impact operations.
Moreover, requiring SCI entities to establish their own reasonable criteria for identifying
material systems changes reflects the Commission’s view that an SCI entity is in the best
position to determine, in the first instance, whether a change, or series of changes, is material in
the context of its systems. Because adopted Rule 1003(a)(1) allows each SCI entity to identify
material systems changes, it is responsive to commenters’ concern that the proposed definition
was too broad and would result in an excessive number of notifications, and to commenters’
suggestion that the definition should be revised.
Further, the Commission’s determination to not adopt the proposed definition of material
systems change mitigates commenters’ concern that the proposed definition was unclear. In
particular, by eliminating the proposed definition of material systems change, the Commission
seeks to eliminate the confusion caused by the proposed definition of this term, which contained
the word “material.” Moreover, some commenters requested additional clarity on the definition
of material systems change because they believed that some of the examples the Commission
provided in the SCI Proposal were not material systems changes. Because adopted Rule
1003(a)(1) requires SCI entities to establish reasonable written criteria for identifying material
systems changes, SCI entities will not be required to identify material systems changes in
accordance with the detailed definition and examples from the SCI Proposal. Rather, an SCI
entity will have reasonable discretion in establishing the written criteria in order to capture the
systems changes that it believes are material. Specifically, the Commission believes that adopted
Rule 1003(a) is sufficiently flexible to allow each SCI entity to identify changes that it believes

345

are material, which may include some of the suggestions identified by the commenters if an SCI
entity determines such changes to be appropriate to include in its criteria for identifying material
systems changes. For example, if an SCI entity reasonably believes that its systems changes are
material if they involve significant functional enhancements, major technology infrastructure
changes, or changes requiring member/participant notifications, and such criteria is set forth in
the SCI entity’s reasonable written criteria, the SCI entity may identify material systems changes
in accordance with such written criteria. Likewise, if an SCI entity reasonably believes that
some of the examples of material systems changes identified in the SCI Proposal can
appropriately serve as criteria for identifying material systems changes, and such criteria is set
forth in the SCI entity’s reasonable written criteria, the SCI entity may identify material systems
changes in accordance with such written criteria.
In response to a commenter’s suggestion that the Commission clearly define what types
of systems changes are not subject to the prior notification requirement in order to avoid
notification of all systems changes, material or otherwise, the Commission notes that Rule
1003(a)(1) specifically requires SCI entities to identify material systems changes and report only
material systems changes. With respect to a commenter’s question regarding whether prior
notification would be required for changes that do not pertain to the production environment, the
Commission notes that SCI systems do not include development and testing systems, although
indirect SCI systems could include development and testing systems if they are not walled-off
from SCI systems. Therefore, Rule 1003(a) could apply to material changes to the security of
development and testing systems that are not walled-off from SCI systems. Finally, with respect
to a commenter’s suggestion that Rule 1003(a) focus only on SCI systems, the Commission
believes that notifications of material systems changes regarding the security of indirect SCI

346

systems is important to the Commission’s oversight of U.S. securities market infrastructure. At
the same time, the Commission notes that Rule 1003(a)(1) provides that each SCI entity establish
its own reasonable criteria for identifying a change to the security of its indirect SCI systems as
material. Therefore, to the extent that an SCI entity determines that certain changes to the
security of its indirect SCI systems are not material in accordance with its reasonable written
criteria, such changes are not required to be reported to the Commission.
As with an SCI entity’s other policies and procedures under Regulation SCI, Commission
staff may review an SCI entity’s established criteria relating to the materiality of a systems
change (e.g., in the course of an examination) to determine whether it agrees with the SCI
entity’s assessment that such criteria is reasonable and in compliance with the requirements of
Rule 1003(a). The Commission believes that, by providing SCI entities flexibility in establishing
the criteria and reviewing SCI entities’ established criteria, it strikes the proper balance between
granting discretion to SCI entities and ensuring that SCI entities carry out their obligations under
Regulation SCI.
iii.

Adopted Rule 1003(a)(2): Supplemental Material
Systems Change Reports

A commenter who advocated for a quarterly reporting requirement noted that quarterly
updates would disclose material deviations from plans described in a previous report, including
those stemming from inaccuracies in prior reports. 1058 Another commenter similarly noted that
periodic reporting of any inaccuracies is sufficient for oversight purposes. 1059 The Commission
believes that there may be circumstances in which an SCI entity realizes that information

1058

See OTC Markets Letter at 22.

1059

See NYSE Letter at 28.

347

previously provided to the Commission in a quarterly report was materially inaccurate or that the
quarterly report omitted material information. The Commission believes that it should, on an
ongoing basis, have complete and correct information regarding material systems changes at an
SCI entity, rather than waiting until the next quarterly report to receive corrected information, as
suggested by these commenters. The Commission is therefore adopting Rule 1003(a)(2), which
requires an SCI entity to promptly submit a supplemental report to notify the Commission of a
material error in or material omission from a report previously submitted under Rule 1003(a)(1).
The Commission notes that the supplemental report requirement applies only if the error or
omission in a prior report is material.
5.

SCI Review – Rule 1003(b)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(7) required an SCI entity to conduct an SCI review of the SCI
entity’s compliance with Regulation SCI not less than once each calendar year, and submit a
report of the SCI review to senior management of the SCI entity no more than 30 calendar days
after completion of such SCI review. 1060 Further, proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(i) required an SCI
entity to submit to the Commission a report of the SCI review required by paragraph (b)(7),
together with any response by senior management, within 60 calendar days after its submission
to senior management of the SCI entity. 1061
Proposed Rule 1000(a) defined the term “SCI review” to mean a review, following
established procedures and standards, that is performed by objective personnel having
appropriate experience in conducting reviews of SCI systems and SCI security systems, and
which review contains: (1) a risk assessment with respect to such systems of the SCI entity; and
1060

See proposed Rule 1000(b)(7) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.C.5.

1061

See proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(i) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.C.6.

348

(2) an assessment of internal control design and effectiveness to include logical and physical
security controls, development processes, and information technology governance, consistent
with industry standards. 1062 In addition, the proposed definition provided that such review must
include penetration test reviews of the SCI entity’s network, firewalls, and production systems at
a frequency of not less than once every three years. 1063
The Commission is adopting the provisions relating to SCI reviews with modifications in
response to comment. In addition, the Commission is adopting a definition of “senior
management” in Rule 1000 for purposes of the SCI review requirement.
Some commenters expressed support for the proposed requirements for SCI reviews, 1064
with a few advocating that the SCI review be conducted by an independent third party, rather
than “objective personnel.” 1065 One commenter noted that it agreed that annual SCI reviews and
reports can have a meaningful impact on improving technology and business practices. 1066
Another commenter expressed support for proposed Rule 1000(b)(7), but asked for clarification
that any review of a processor under an NMS plan be performed independently of reviews of the
same entity in other capacities (e.g., as an exchange or other SCI entity). 1067

1062

See proposed Rule 1000(a) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.C.5.

1063

See id.

1064

See, e.g., MSRB Letter at 23; Lauer Letter at 5; Better Markets Letter at 5; and Direct
Edge Letter at 9.

1065

See Lauer Letter at 5; Better Markets Letter at 5; and BlackRock Letter at 4.

1066

See FIF Letter at 6 (expressing support for the SCI review requirement while also
providing suggestions for modifications to the rule).

1067

See Direct Edge Letter at 9.

349

With regard to the suggestion that the Commission adopt a requirement that SCI reviews
be conducted by an independent third party rather than “objective personnel” as proposed, 1068 the
Commission continues to believe that it is appropriate to permit SCI reviews to be performed by
personnel of the SCI entity or an external firm, provided that such personnel are, in fact,
objective and, as required by rule, have the appropriate experience to conduct reviews of SCI
systems and indirect SCI systems. Experienced personnel should have the knowledge and skills
necessary to conduct such reviews. In the SCI Proposal, the Commission noted that to satisfy the
criterion that an SCI review be conducted by “objective personnel,” it should be performed by
persons who have not been involved in the development, testing, or implementation of such
systems being reviewed. 1069 The Commission continues to believe that persons who were not
involved in the process for development, testing, and implementation of the systems being
reviewed would generally be in a better position to identify weaknesses and deficiencies that
were not identified in the development, testing, and implementation stages. The Commission
believes that, given the requirement that such personnel be “objective,” any personnel with
conflicts of interest that have not been adequately mitigated to allow for objectivity should be
excluded from serving in this role. In particular, the Commission believes that a person or
persons conducting an SCI review should not have a conflict of interest that interferes with their
ability to exercise judgment, express opinions, and present recommendations with impartiality.
While the Commission recognizes that, as one commenter asserted, all personnel of an SCI entity
could be viewed as having some level of conflict of interest, 1070 the Commission believes that

1068

See supra note 1065 and accompanying text.

1069

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18123.

1070

See Better Markets Letter at 5.

350

SCI entities can have appropriate policies and procedures in place to mitigate such conflicts or to
help ensure that certain departments and/or specified personnel (such as internal audit
departments) are appropriately insulated from such conflicts so as to be able to objectively
conduct SCI reviews. 1071
Accordingly, the Commission believes that the goals of Regulation SCI can be achieved
through reviews by either internal objective personnel or external objective personnel. Taking
into consideration the advantages and disadvantages associated with each approach, each SCI
entity should make its own determination regarding the levels of review or assurance that can be
provided by different personnel, the best means to ensure their objectivity, and whether it is
appropriate to incur the additional costs of an independent third party review. An SCI entity
may, for example, determine that it is appropriate to utilize personnel not employed by the SCI
entity (i.e., third parties) to conduct such review each year or only on a less frequent, periodic
basis (e.g., every three years), or only with regard to certain of its systems. In addition, with
regard to one commenter’s suggestion that an SCI review should be performed independently for
each capacity in which an SCI entity acts, the Commission notes that the definition of SCI
review and provisions of Rule 1003(b) require that an SCI entity perform a review, following
1071

For example, the Commission believes that many entities implement a reporting structure
pursuant to which internal audit employees or departments report directly to the board of
directors or an audit committee of the board. The Commission notes that, while utilizing
external personnel (i.e., third parties) to conduct an SCI entity’s SCI review generally
would not raise the same concerns regarding objectivity, the SCI entity would likewise
need to mitigate any conflicts of interest that would prevent such personnel from meeting
the objectivity standard required for an SCI review. For example, among the factors an
SCI entity may consider in evaluating the objectivity of a third party review could be who
within the SCI entity is managing the third party review, is setting the scope of review, is
authorizing payment for such review, and has the authority to review and comment on the
third party report, among others. Further, an SCI entity may consider the third party’s
ability to remain objective in light of any other services provided by the third party to the
SCI entity.

351

established procedures and standards, for compliance with Regulation SCI that includes a risk
assessment of the SCI entity’s SCI systems and indirect SCI systems and an assessment of
internal control design and effectiveness of such systems and does not require an SCI entity that
serves in two different capacities with respect to Regulation SCI to conduct two independent SCI
reviews. The Commission believes that, as a practical matter, an SCI entity may determine that,
to comply with these requirements, it is necessary to conduct separate assessments and analysis
for each capacity of the SCI entity, because the standards used, risk assessments, applicable
policies and procedures, and assessment of internal control design and effectiveness are different
with regard to the distinct and differing functions of the SCI entity in each capacity. For
example, an entity that meets both the definition of an SCI SRO and a plan processor may
determine that it is necessary to conduct separate reviews for each function performed, because,
for instance, the findings of a risk assessment determine that certain SCI systems fall into the
category of “critical SCI systems” with regard to the functions of the plan processor, but not with
regard to the functions of the SRO. At the same time, the Commission notes that, even where
separate reviews are conducted, there may be certain overlap in conducting such reviews (for
example, the entity may use the same objective reviewer for each function performed), such
reviews may be conducted at the same time, and a single SCI review report may contain findings
for each capacity.
While other commenters also supported some form of review, many of these commenters
stated that the term SCI review is defined too broadly and/or that the SCI review requirements
should allow more flexibility. 1072 Some commenters expressed concerns about the need to
1072

See, e.g., FINRA Letter at 39-41; Omgeo Letter at 23-24; OCC Letter at 19; NYSE Letter
at 35; SIFMA Letter at 17; DTCC Letter at 16-17.

352

review all systems on an annual basis, which they argued could be costly, burdensome, and
unnecessary. 1073 Several commenters suggested the adoption of a risk-based approach for
determining the scope of the review, which would entail conducting a risk assessment to
determine which systems should be reviewed and how often. 1074 Under such an approach, the
highest risk systems would be reviewed more frequently than other, less critical systems, which
could be reviewed less frequently than annually or on a rotational basis. Similarly, one
commenter recommended that SCI reviews should be focused only on those core systems
capable of having a material impact on members or participants, and “adjacent” systems should
not be subject to the review process. 1075
After considering the views of commenters, the Commission has determined to adopt the
provisions relating to SCI reviews with modifications in response to comment. 1076 Thus,

1073

See, e.g., FINRA Letter at 39-41; Omgeo Letter at 23-24; OCC Letter at 19; NYSE Letter
at 35; DTCC Letter at 16-17; and BIDS Letter at 11.

1074

See, e.g., FINRA Letter at 39-41; OCC Letter at 19; NYSE Letter at 35; SIFMA Letter at
17; DTCC Letter at 16-17; LiquidPoint Letter at 3; and Omgeo Letter at 24. One
commenter noted that the proposed SCI review requirement essentially eliminated the
ability to utilize its current risk assessment approach to determine the frequency of
review for each system (ranging from annually to once every four years). See FINRA
Letter at 40.

1075

See FIF Letter at 6.

1076

See adopted Rule 1003(b). However, the Commission is moving the clause regarding
penetration test reviews from the definition of SCI review into Rule 1003(b), which
addresses the timing of reviews. Further, the adopted definition of SCI review will
require that the objective reviewer have “appropriate experience to conduct reviews”
rather than “appropriate experience in conducting reviews” as proposed. The
Commission believes this revision is appropriate given that, prior to the adoption of
Regulation SCI today, no individual or entity would have experience in conducting the
specific SCI reviews required by Rule 1003(b). Rather, the Commission believes that
there are individuals or entities that have experience in conducting reviews, audits, and/or
testing similar to the functions that would be necessary to address certain aspects of the
SCI review requirement, and thus, the objective reviewer should have this type of
appropriate experience that would allow them to conduct SCI reviews in accordance with
353

adopted Rule 1003(b) requires an SCI entity to conduct an SCI review of the SCI entity’s
compliance with Regulation SCI not less than once each calendar year. 1077 However, the
Commission notes that, because it has revised the scope of the definition of “SCI systems” as
described above, fewer systems of each SCI entity will be subject to the SCI review, thereby
focusing the overall scope of the SCI review requirement. 1078 Further, to address some
commenters’ concerns about the burdens and inflexibility of the proposed rule and the
recommendation that the proposed rule utilize a more risk-based approach, the adopted rule is
being revised to allow assessments of SCI systems directly supporting market regulation or
market surveillance to be conducted, based upon a risk-assessment, at least once every three
years, rather than annually. 1079 SCI entities would be required to determine the specific
frequency with which to conduct assessments of these systems depending on the risk assessment
that they conduct as part of the annual SCI review, provided that these systems are assessed at
the requirements of Regulation SCI. Thus, as adopted, the term “SCI review” means “a
review, following established procedures and standards, that is performed by objective
personnel having appropriate experience to conduct reviews of SCI systems and indirect
SCI systems, and which review contains: (1) A risk assessment with respect to such
systems of an SCI entity; and (2) An assessment of internal control design and
effectiveness of its SCI systems and indirect SCI systems to include logical and physical
security controls, development processes, and information technology governance,
consistent with industry standards.” See Rule 1000. Further, the Commission is moving
the requirement relating to reports to the Commission on SCI reviews from proposed
Rule 1000(b)(8) into Rule 1003(b) so that all provisions regarding SCI reviews are in the
same rule.
1077

See adopted Rule 1003(b)(1).

1078

The Commission also notes that it has clarified that the definition of “indirect SCI
systems” includes only those systems that have not been effectively logically or
physically separated from SCI systems. Thus, the scope of the SCI review is also more
focused than what some commenters may have believed. It is also further focused by the
elimination of references to development and test systems from the penetration test
requirement in adopted in Rule 1003(b)(1)(i).

1079

See adopted Rule 1003(b)(1)(ii).

354

least once every three years. The Commission believes that market regulation and market
surveillance systems have the potential to pose less risk to an entity or the market than other SCI
systems. While the Commission believes that these systems are essential to investor protection
and market integrity and that they can pose a significant risk to the markets in the event of a
systems issue, the Commission also believes that certain market regulation and market
surveillance systems may not have as immediate or widespread of an impact on the maintenance
of fair and orderly markets or an entity’s operational capability as the other categories of systems
included within the definition of SCI systems. While a systems issue affecting a trading system
could result in the immediate inability of a market, and thus market participants, to continue
trading on such system and potentially impact trading on other markets as well, the Commission
believes that the temporary disruption or failure of a SCI entity’s market regulation and/or
market surveillance systems in the wake of a wide-scale disruption would likely not have as
direct an impact on market participants’ ability to continue to trade. Thus, after considering
commenters’ views regarding the costs and burdens of the proposed SCI review requirements, as
well as the suggestion that the Commission incorporate more of a risk-based approach in
Regulation SCI, the Commission believes that a longer frequency of review of these systems
may be appropriate in cases where the risk assessment conducted as part of the SCI review
results in such a determination. The Commission also notes that, as originally proposed the rule
would have required penetration test reviews of the SCI entity’s network, firewalls and
development, testing, and production systems at a frequency of not less than once every three
years in recognition of the potentially significant costs that may be associated with the
performance of such tests. 1080 However, consistent with modifications to the definition of SCI
1080

As noted by some commenters, penetration tests are highly technical and would require
355

systems, references to development and test systems have been deleted in adopted Rule
1003(b)(1)(i). 1081 The Commission notes that SCI entities may, however, determine that based
on its risk assessment, it is appropriate and/or necessary to conduct such penetration test reviews
more frequently than once every three years.
The Commission is not, however, adopting a broader risk-based approach to determine
the required frequency of an SCI review (i.e., for SCI systems other than market regulation and
market surveillance systems), as suggested by some commenters 1082 The Commission believes
that a critical element to ensuring the capacity, integrity, resiliency, and availability of SCI
systems and indirect SCI systems is conducting an annual objective review to assess the risks of
an SCI entity’s systems and the effectiveness of its internal information technology controls and
procedures. Such reviews will not only assist the Commission in improving its oversight of the
technology infrastructure of SCI entities, but also each SCI entity in assessing the effectiveness
of its information technology practices, helping to ensure compliance with the safeguards
provided by the requirements of Regulation SCI, identifying potential areas of weakness that
require additional or modified controls, and determining where to best devote resources. Further,
the Commission believes that the competitive environment of today’s securities markets drives
special expertise, and thus the Commission believes such testing could potentially require
substantial costs. See, e.g., DTCC Letter at 17; and Omgeo Letter at 44. See also infra
Sections V.D.2.d and VI.C.2.b.vi (discussing estimated costs associated with the SCI
review requirement, which takes into consideration the costs of penetration testing) and
Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18123 (stating that the Commission seeks to balance
the frequency of such tests with the costs associated with performing the tests). As noted
in the SCI Proposal, the Commission believes that the penetration test reviews should
help an SCI entity evaluate the system’s security and resiliency in the face of attempted
and successful intrusions. See id.
1081

See supra Section IV.A.2.b (discussing elimination of development and test systems from
the definition of SCI systems).

1082

See supra note 1074 and accompanying text.

356

SCI entities to continually update, modify, and introduce new technology and systems, often in
an effort to meet specific business needs and achieve “quick-to-market” results, potentially
without adequate focus on ensuring the continuous integrity of its systems. In addition, given
today’s fast-paced nature of technological advancement, existing controls can quickly become
obsolete or ineffective and the relative criticality or risk nature of a system can change over time
as well. 1083 Further, as one commenter noted, it is not uncommon for entities to experience
repeated unsuccessful attempts to gain access to their systems, 1084 which the Commission
believes can expose certain vulnerabilities not identified previously and, if successful, also create
new vulnerabilities and risk. For these reasons, the Commission believes that it is appropriate to
require an SCI entity to conduct an SCI review of its applicable systems not less than once every
12 months. 1085
Further, the Commission notes that, as described in detail above, Regulation SCI is
consistent with a risk-based approach in several areas, and thus, a risk assessment is appropriate
in order to determine the standards and requirements applicable to a given SCI system. As such,
the Commission believes that it is appropriate to require SCI entities to conduct a risk-based
assessment with regard to its SCI systems and indirect SCI systems as part of its SCI review at

1083

In addition, the Commission believes changes in personnel with access to SCI systems
throughout the year can create additional risk that should be considered in evaluating the
risks of any particular system.

1084

See SIFMA Letter at 11.

1085

The Commission notes that, while the rule requires that an SCI review be conducted “not
less than once each calendar year,” an SCI entity may determine that it is appropriate to
conduct an assessment of an SCI system more frequently, particularly for critical SCI
systems. See adopted Rule 1003(b)(1).

357

least annually to help ensure that SCI entities are meeting the requirements of Regulation
SCI. 1086
For the reasons noted above, the Commission believes it is appropriate to require that SCI
reviews be conducted at least annually, rather than utilizing a risk-based approach to determine
the frequency of the required SCI review. 1087 At the same time, the Commission notes that this
provision is consistent with a risk-based approach in that SCI entities may design the scope and
rigor of the SCI review for a particular system based on its risk assessment of such system,
provided that the review meets the requirements of the rule, such as including an assessment of
internal control design and effectiveness to include logical and physical security controls,
development processes, and information technology governance, consistent with industry
standards 1088 and performing penetration test reviews at least once every three years. 1089
Some commenters sought clarification on various aspects of the SCI review requirement.
One commenter stated that the term SCI review, as proposed, expanded significantly on what is
required under ARP and asked for greater specificity as to the objectives and intended scope of
the SCI review. 1090 This commenter suggested, as an alternative, that the Commission establish
an “agreed upon procedures” approach, which would involve outlining specific SCI review
objectives and procedures that would be performed by an objective reviewer. 1091 One
1086

See adopted Rule 1003(b) and Rule 1000 (definition of “SCI review”).

1087

However, as discussed above, an SCI entity may conduct an SCI review of its market
regulation and market surveillance systems based upon its risk assessment of such
systems, but not less than once every three years. See adopted Rule 1003(b)(1)(ii).

1088

See adopted Rule 1000 (definition of “SCI review”).

1089

See adopted Rule 1003(b)(1)(i).

1090

See FINRA Letter at 39-40.

1091

See id. at 40.

358

commenter also requested that the Commission clarify whether there is a distinction between the
existing ARP report and the SCI review and whether the ARP practice of on-site inspections
would be eliminated. 1092
With regard to the comment seeking clarity on the scope of the review as compared to
what is done under the current ARP Inspection Program, 1093 as noted in the SCI Proposal, the
requirement for an annual SCI review was intended to formalize a practice in place under the
current ARP Inspection Program in which SROs conduct annual systems reviews following
established audit procedures and standards that result in the presentation of a report to senior
SRO management on the recommendations and conclusions of the review. 1094 Specifically, the
ARP Policy Statements called for each SRO to have its automated systems reviewed annually by
an “independent reviewer” 1095 and stated that independent reviews and analysis should: “(1)
cover significant elements of the operations of the automation process, including the capacity
planning and testing process, contingency planning, systems development methodology and
vulnerability assessment; (2) be performed on a cyclical basis by competent and independent
audit personnel following established audit procedures and standards; and (3) result in the
presentation of a report to senior SRO management on the recommendations and conclusions of
the independent reviewer, which report should be made available to Commission staff for its

1092

See OCC Letter at 19.

1093

See supra note 1092 and accompanying text. See also supra note 1090 and
accompanying text.

1094

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18123.

1095

See ARP I, supra note 1, at 48706-07. ARP I provided that an “independent reviewer”
could be either an internal auditor group or an external audit firm so long as the
independent reviewer had the competence, knowledge, consistency, and independence
sufficient to perform the role.

359

review and comment.” 1096 Similar to (1) above, the definition of SCI review requires the review
to contain an assessment of internal control design and effectiveness of its SCI systems and
indirect SCI systems to include logical and physical security controls, development processes,
and information technology governance, consistent with industry standards. Consistent with
element (2), an SCI review must be performed by objective personnel having appropriate
experience to conduct reviews of SCI systems and indirect SCI systems and must be performed
following established procedures and standards. Finally, like item (3), Rule 1003(b)(2)-(3)
requires SCI entities to submit a report of the SCI review to senior management after completion
of the review, and following submission to senior management, to submit a report of the SCI
review to the Commission, along with any response by senior management. Senior management,
after reviewing the report, should note, in addition to any other response that may be made, any
material inaccuracy or omission that, to their knowledge, is in the report. In this regard, the
Commission recognizes that senior managers, by virtue of their positions and experience, may
have differing levels of knowledge regarding their entity’s SCI systems and indirect SCI systems
and compliance with Regulation SCI.
While the SCI review requirement in Rule 1003 is based on the ARP review and report, a
greater number of automated systems meeting the definition of SCI system or indirect SCI
system would be subject to the SCI review requirements because the scope of Regulation SCI
expands upon the current ARP Inspection Program. The Commission notes that the SCI review
1096

See ARP II, supra note 1, at 22491. In ARP II, the Commission also explained that, in its
view, “a critical element to the success of the capacity planning and testing, security
assessment and contingency planning processes for [automated] systems is obtaining an
objective review of those planning processes by persons independent of the planning
process to ensure that adequate controls and procedures have been developed and
implemented.” Id.

360

is not a substitute for inspections and examinations conducted by Commission staff, and
therefore SCI entities should expect that technology systems inspections and examinations will
continue following the adoption of Regulation SCI. Along with notifications of material systems
changes under adopted Rule 1003(a) and SCI event notifications pursuant to adopted Rule
1002(b), one purpose of SCI reviews will be to aid the Commission and its staff in understanding
the operations and risks associated with the applicable systems of an SCI entity.
In addition, as noted above, one commenter, in seeking further clarity on the scope of the
SCI review requirement, suggested that the Commission take an “agreed upon approach” which
would outline more specific review objectives and procedures that would be performed by the
objective reviewer. The Commission believes that an SCI entity should have the ability to
design the specific parameters of an SCI review within the confines of the general framework of
the rule, including identifying its own review objectives and procedures, given the SCI entity’s
in-depth knowledge of, and familiarity with, its own systems and their attendant risks. As such,
the adopted rule is designed to provide a general framework for the scope of the SCI review by
specifying that the review must include a risk assessment of SCI systems and indirect SCI
systems and an assessment of the internal control design and effectiveness of its systems in
certain areas. 1097 At the same time, the rule provides flexibility by permitting the review to be
conducted “following established procedures and standards,” which would be identified and
established by the SCI entity itself. 1098
Some commenters expressed views on the provisions requiring SCI entities to submit
reports of the SCI review to senior management of the SCI entity and to the Commission.
1097

See adopted Rule 1000 (defining “SCI review”).

1098

See id.

361

Specifically, two commenters supported the proposed requirement that reports of the SCI review
be submitted to senior management of the SCI entity no later than 30 days after completion of
the SCI review. 1099 One commenter urged that senior management of an SCI entity certify the
report before it is submitted to the Commission in order to promote accountability at the highest
ranks of the SCI entity. 1100 Another commenter believed that 45 days for submission of such
reports to senior management would be more appropriate as a target timeframe given the
complexity of the issues addressed in an SCI review, and that should this target fail to be met, the
Board of Directors Audit Committee (or similar governing body) should be informed of the
reason therefor. 1101 Two commenters recommended that the distribution cycle within proposed
Rule 1000(b)(8)(i) be modified so that individual, focused audit reports resulting from rotational
reviews could be bundled and distributed to the Commission on a regular basis (semi-annually or
quarterly). 1102
The Commission does not believe that it is necessary to require senior management
certification of the report of the SCI review, as suggested by one commenter. 1103 Adopted Rules
1003(b)(2)-(3) require that the SCI entity submit a report of the SCI review to senior
management of the SCI entity no more than 30 calendar days after completion of such SCI
review, and that the SCI entity submit a report of the SCI review, together with any response by
senior management, to the Commission and the board of directors of the SCI entity or the
equivalent of such board within 60 calendar days after its submission to senior management.
1099

See MSRB Letter at 23; and FIF Letter at 6.

1100

See Better Markets Letter at 6.

1101

See DTCC Letter at 17.

1102

See OCC Letter at 19; and DTCC Letter at 17.

1103

See supra note 1100 and accompanying text.

362

Because reports of SCI reviews and any responses by senior management are required to be filed
using Form SCI under the Exchange Act and Regulation SCI, it is unlawful for any person to
willfully or knowingly make, or cause to be made, a false or misleading statement with respect to
any material fact in such reports or responses. 1104
The Commission recognizes that senior management certifications are used in other
regulatory contexts, including in some Commission rules and regulations. 1105 However, at this
time, the Commission believes that, in light of the other requirements for an SCI entity, the goals
of Regulation SCI can be achieved without the imposition of an additional requirement on SCI
entities for senior management certification. Specifically, the Commission believes that the
adopted requirements promote the responsibility and accountability of senior management of an
SCI entity by helping to ensure that senior management receives and reviews reports of SCI
reviews, is made aware of issues relating to compliance with Regulation SCI, and is encouraged
to promptly establish plans for resolving such issues.
The Commission is also adopting a definition of “senior management” in Rule 1000 to
make clear which individuals at an SCI entity must receive and review the report of the SCI
review. The Commission believes that, in the context of the SCI review requirement, senior
management should not be limited to a single individual or officer of an SCI entity. Thus,
“senior management,” for purposes of adopted Rule 1003(b) is defined as an SCI entity’s Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Technology Officer, Chief Information Officer, General Counsel, and
Chief Compliance Officer, or the equivalent of such employees or officers of an SCI entity. The
1104

See, e.g., Section 32(a) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a).

1105

See, e.g., 17 CFR 240.15c3-5(e)(2) (chief executive officer certification under the Market
Access Rule); and 17 CFR 240.13a-14 (principal executive and principal financial officer
certification of disclosure in annual and quarterly reports).

363

Commission believes that, in order to achieve the goals of the rule to promote increased
awareness and oversight of the technology infrastructure at an SCI entity by its most senior
employees and officers, it is important that the SCI entity’s senior management team receive and
carefully review reports of SCI reviews. The Commission believes that these employees and
officers, or their functional equivalent, represent the executive, technology, legal, and
compliance functions that are necessary to effectively review the reports of SCI reviews. The
Commission also believes that awareness by an SCI entity’s senior management of SCI reviews
and issues with Regulation SCI compliance should help to promote a focus by senior
management on such reviews and issues, enhance communication and coordination regarding
such reviews and issues among business, technology, legal, and compliance personnel, and, in
turn, strengthen the capacity, integrity, resiliency, and availability of the systems of SCI entities.
To help ensure that persons at the highest levels of an SCI entity are made aware of any issues
raised in the SCI review, the Commission is also adopting a requirement for each SCI entity to
submit to its board of directors or the equivalent of such board a report of the SCI review and
any response by senior management within 60 calendar days after the submission of the report to
senior management of the SCI entity.
With regard to one commenter’s suggestion that SCI entities should be given 45 days
rather than 30 days to submit the report of the SCI review to senior management (and that it
should be only a target timeframe rather than a requirement), 1106 the Commission notes that the
30-day timeframe is based on the Commission’s experience with the current ARP Inspection
Program that an ARP entity is able to consider the review and prepare a report for senior

1106

See supra note 1101 and accompanying text.

364

management consideration prior to the submission to the Commission.1107 The Commission
acknowledges that a greater number of systems will be subject to the SCI review requirement
than the current ARP Inspection Program given the definitions of SCI system and indirect SCI
system, 1108 and that the issues addressed in an SCI review may be complex. However, the
Commission notes that the adopted timeframe, while based on experience with the current ARP
Inspection Program, also takes into account these factors. 1109 Further, the Commission believes
that the complexity of the issues presented during an SCI review would more likely affect the
timing of conducting and completing the SCI review, rather than the timing for submitting a
report of the review to senior management. The Commission, therefore, continues to believe that
this requirement is appropriate. The Commission also notes that the requirement to submit the
annual report to the Commission within 60 calendar days after its submission to senior
management is similarly based on the Commission’s experience with the ARP Inspection
Program that this time period is a sufficient period to enable senior management to consider such
review or report before submitting it to the Commission. 1110 Because an SCI entity will already
have prepared the report and any response by senior management for filing with the

1107

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18123.

1108

The Commission also notes, however, that as discussed above, the scope of systems
subject to Regulation SCI has been refined from what was proposed.

1109

The Commission notes that, while the ARP II Release recommended that an SRO’s
independent review should result in the presentation of a report to senior SRO
management on the recommendations and conclusions of the independent review and
such report should be made available to Commission staff, it did not provide
recommended time periods for the submission of such reports. See ARP II Release,
supra note 1. The adopted 30-day time period is based on experience with the ARP
Inspection Program, as well as a consideration of the scope of the review required under
Regulation SCI.

1110

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18124.

365

Commission, the Commission believes that an SCI entity will not need significant additional
time to submit the same report and response to its board of directors or the equivalent of such
board.
Contrary to the suggestion of some commenters, the Commission does not believe it is
appropriate to allow an SCI entity to delay the submission of SCI review reports to the
Commission in order to bundle several reports together and submit them on a quarterly or semiannual basis. Rather, the Commission believes that it is important to receive such reports in a
timely manner after completion of the SCI review, so that the Commission is made aware of
potential areas of weakness in an SCI entity’s systems that may pose risk to the entity or the
market as a whole, as well as areas of non-compliance with the provisions of Regulation SCI,
without undue delay.
With respect to clearing agencies, two commenters noted that the SCI review requirement
potentially might overlap with staff guidance for clearing agencies that calls for an annual report
on internal controls and recommended that the Commission consider further coordination on
potential redundancies. 1111 The Commission notes that the section in the guidance provided in
the Announcement for Standards for the Registration of Clearing Agencies referenced by
commenters is distinct from the adopted SCI review requirement, as such section in the guidance
relates to the review and evaluation of clearing agencies’ accounting controls. 1112 In contrast, the
SCI review requirement involves a risk assessment and assessment of internal control design and
effectiveness of all of an SCI entity’s SCI systems and indirect SCI systems.
1111

See OCC Letter at 19-20; and DTCC Letter at 18 (citing Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 16900, 45 FR 41920, available at: http://sec.gov/rules/other/34-16900.pdf).

1112

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 16900 (June 17, 1980), 45 FR 41920 (June 23,
1980).
366

Finally, it should be noted that the required review and timely reporting to the
Commission will enable the Commission and Commission staff to monitor the quality of
compliance with Regulation SCI, thoroughness and robustness of SCI reviews, and the responses
of senior management to such reviews. Accordingly, the Commission will be in a position to
consider enhancing these regulatory requirements in the future, if necessary.
6.

SCI Entity Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plans Testing
Requirements for Members or Participants – Rule 1004

Adopted Rule 1004 addresses testing of SCI entity business continuity and disaster
recovery plans, including backup systems, by SCI entity members or participants. Rule 1004
corresponds to proposed Rule 1000(b)(9), and is adopted with certain modifications in response
to comment, as discussed below.
a.

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)(i) required each SCI entity, with respect to its BC/DR plans, to
require participation by designated members or participants in scheduled functional and
performance testing of the operation of such plans, in the manner and frequency specified by the
SCI entity, at least once every 12 months. Proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)(ii) further required each
SCI entity to coordinate the testing of such plans on an industry- or sector-wide basis with other
SCI entities. Proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)(iii) would have additionally required each SCI entity to
designate those members or participants it deems necessary, for the maintenance of fair and
orderly markets in the event of the activation of its BC/DR plans, to participate in the testing of
such plans, and notify the Commission of such designations and its standards for such
designation on Form SCI.
b.

Comments and Commission Response

367

The Commission received significant comment on proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) and is
adopting it with revisions, as Rule 1004. As more fully discussed below, the adopted rule
requires designation of a more limited set of SCI entity members and participants for mandatory
participation in BC/DR testing than the proposed rule. Further, the adopted rule does not require
an SCI entity to file designation standards or member/participant designations with the
Commission on Form SCI, as was proposed, but instead an SCI entity must keep records of its
standards and designations. The scope, frequency, and coordination aspects of the proposed rule
are adopted as proposed.
i.

Mandatory BC/DR Testing Generally

Some commenters expressed general support for the goals of proposed Rule
1000(b)(9). 1113 One commenter in particular stated that “[i]t is vital that as many firms as
possible participate in [market-wide] testing with conditions as realistic as possible.” 1114
According to this commenter, broader mandatory participation in testing would be “one of the
most valuable parts of Regulation SCI and will do the most to ensure improved market network
reliability.” 1115 Another commenter expressed support for broad participation in BC/DR testing,
but also expressed concern that the testing requirement would put SCI entities at a competitive
disadvantage versus non-SCI entities. 1116

1113

See, e.g., Angel Letter at 9; UBS Letter at 4-5; and FIF Letter at 6-7.

1114

See Angel Letter at 9.

1115

See id. at 10.

1116

See FIF Letter at 7.

368

Several commenters objected to the proposed mandatory testing requirement for SCI
ATSs. 1117 For example, two commenters suggested that few ATSs are critical enough to warrant
inclusion in the proposed mandatory testing requirement. 1118 One commenter urged that only
SCI entities that provide market functions on which other market participants depend be subject
to the requirements for separate backup and recovery capabilities. 1119 Another commenter stated
that the added benefit of requiring fully redundant backup systems is almost impossible to
measure while the cost of implementation is significant, and added further that fully redundant
systems and increased testing do not guarantee a flawless backup plan. 1120
Two commenters stated that the current voluntary coordinated testing organized by
SIFMA 1121 already attracts significant participation without any mandate in place. 1122 However,
a different commenter noted the difficulties it has encountered in fostering participation in its
voluntary disaster recovery exercises, and stated that, despite encouraging users to participate in
its disaster recovery exercises, participation levels were only 20 percent of its targeted high
volume client base. 1123 One commenter sought clarification on whether the requirements of
proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) would apply only to trading and clearance systems, or would extend to

1117

See SIFMA Letter at 17; BIDS Letter at 8; and ITG Letter at 15.

1118

See BIDS Letter at 5, 8; and ITG Letter at 15.

1119

See KCG Letter at 8.

1120

See Group One Letter at 3.

1121

SIFMA organizes an annual industry-wide testing exercise for firms and exchanges to
submit and process test orders using their backup facilities. Participation is voluntary.
See http://www.sifma.org/services/bcp/industry-testing/.

1122

See CME Letter at 13; and Tellefsen Letter at 7-8.

1123

See Omgeo Letter at 26 (noting also that it lacks the ability to require participation by its
clients).

369

other SCI systems as well. 1124 Two commenters asked whether third parties that perform critical
market functions for an SCI entity, such as data vendors and service bureaus, would be subject to
the proposed requirement. 1125 One commenter stated that testing by an SCI entity of its business
continuity capabilities should not be required to be coordinated with members. 1126 According to
this commenter, “[t]he entire point of [business continuity plan testing] would be to not
coordinate it with customers, and assess whether operations out of [backup] facilities was
seamless to members and other market participants.” 1127 One commenter stated that it would be
more appropriate for SCI entities’ members and participants to be responsible for their own
business continuity plans and testing. 1128 The Commission has carefully considered
commenters’ views on the need for all SCI entities to be subject to the proposed mandatory
testing requirement. The Commission continues to believe that adopted Rule 1004 should apply
to all SCI entities.
Whereas adopted Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) requires that each SCI entity’s policies and
procedures include BC/DR plans and specifies recovery goals and geographic diversity
requirements for such plans, 1129 adopted Rule 1004 sets forth certain minimum requirements for

1124

See FINRA Letter at 37.

1125

See FINRA Letter at 39; and MSRB Letter at 25.

1126

See Direct Edge Letter at 9.

1127

See id.

1128

See SIFMA Letter at 17. In addition, some commenters believed that ATSs should be
excluded from requiring members or participants to test, given that ATSs and their
broker-dealer participants are already subject to FINRA Rule 4370, which relates to
BC/DR plans. See FIA PTG Letter at 5; and BIDS Letter at 9.

1129

See supra Section IV.B.1.b (discussing the requirement that an SCI entity have
reasonable policies and procedures that include business continuity and disaster recovery
plans that include maintaining backup and recovery capabilities sufficiently resilient and
geographically diverse and that are reasonably designed to achieve next business day
370

SCI entity testing of its BC/DR plans. Adopted Rule 1004, like proposed Rule 1000(b)(9), aims
to reduce the risks associated with an SCI entity’s decision to activate its BC/DR plans and help
to ensure that such plans operate as intended, if activated, by requiring that an SCI entity include
participation by certain members and participants in testing of the SCI entity’s BC/DR plans.
Although some commenters, including several ATSs, argued that ATSs should be excluded from
requiring members or participants to test because, according to these commenters, ATSs are less
critical to the orderly functioning of the markets than other SCI entities, 1130 the Commission
believes that eliminating any category of SCI entity—including SCI ATSs—from the testing
requirement would undermine the goal of maintaining fair and orderly markets in the wake of a
wide-scale disruption, and assuring the smooth and effective implementation of an SCI entity’s
BC/DR plans. 1131 The Commission continues to believe that a testing participation requirement
will help an SCI entity to ensure that its efforts to develop effective BC/DR plans are not
undermined by a lack of participation by members or participants that the SCI entity believes are
necessary to the successful activation of such plans. 1132 As stated in the SCI Proposal, the
Commission believes that a factor in the shutdown of the equities and options markets in the
wake of Superstorm Sandy was the exchanges’ belief regarding the inability of some market

resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of critical SCI systems following a widescale disruption).
1130

See supra note 1118 and accompanying text.

1131

See supra Section IV.A.1 (discussing the Commission’s rationale for adopting the
definition of SCI entity as proposed). See supra Section IV.B.1.b (discussing the BC/DR
requirements in Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) for SCI entities). See also infra Sections VI.C.1.c and
VI.C.2.b.vii (discussing competitive concerns raised by requiring SCI entities to require
members or participants to participate in the SCI entities’ BC/DR testing).

1132

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18125.

371

participants to adequately operate from the backup facilities of all market centers. 1133 And,
although testing protocols were in place and the chance to participate in such testing was
available, the member participation rate was low. 1134 The Commission does not agree with
comments that seamless operation of backup facilities should not require coordination of testing,
or that the fact that members and participants have their own BC/DR plans and testing means
that they should not be required, if designated, to participate in the testing of an SCI entity’s
BC/DR plans. 1135 The Commission continues to believe that testing of the effectiveness of backup arrangements in recovering from a wide-scale disruption is a sound principle, and that,
without the participation of significant members or participants of SCI entities, the effectiveness
of such testing could be undermined. Based on its experience with the ARP Inspection Program,
the Commission understands that many SCI entities have already made significant investments in
their backup facilities. 1136 The Commission believes that the requirements of Rule 1004 will
help to ensure that such facilities will be effective in the event they are needed. 1137

1133

See id. at 18158. See also id. at 18091. The Commission notes that its basis for adopting
a mandatory testing rule is independent of whether the market closures in the wake of
Superstorm Sandy were appropriate to protect the health and safety of exchange
personnel.

1134

See id. at 18158 and text accompanying n. 83 at 18091. In addition, based on the
discussions of Commission staff with market participants in the months following
Superstorm Sandy, the Commission understands that many market participants had
previously engaged in connectivity testing with backup facilities, and yet remained
uncomfortable about switching over to the use of backup facilities in advance of the
storm.

1135

Nor does the Commission agree that Rule 1004 would be duplicative of FINRA Rule
4370, as Rule 1004 relates to participation by members or participants in the testing of an
SCI entity’s business continuity plans, whereas FINRA Rule 4370 relates to the testing of
the member’s or participant’s own business continuity plan. See supra note 539 and
accompanying text.

1136

See infra Section VI.B.2 (stating that nearly all national securities exchanges already
have backup facilities that do not rely on the same infrastructure components as those
372

In response to commenters who questioned the need for mandatory participation by SCI
entity members and participants, 1138 the Commission believes that current voluntary industry-led
testing has been useful because it annually brings together a wide variety of market participants,
including many SCI entities, and involves a range of asset classes. 1139 The current industry-led
testing program coordinated by SIFMA therefore could provide a foundation for the
development of the testing required by Rule 1004. However, because participation rates by
members and participants in voluntary testing generally has been low, the Commission believes
that a mandatory participation requirement is the best means to achieve effective and coordinated
BC/DR testing with assured participation by the more significant SCI entity members and
participants. 1140 In addition, although the Commission generally agrees with the comment that
“[i]t is vital that as many firms as possible participate in [market-wide] testing with conditions as

used by their primary facility).
1137

See 2003 BCP Policy Statement, supra note 512, at 56658 (stating: “The effectiveness of
back-up arrangements in recovering from a wide-scale disruption should be confirmed
through testing.”). See also Interagency White Paper, supra note 512, at 17811
(identifying “a high level of confidence, through ongoing use or robust testing, that
critical internal and external continuity arrangements are effective and compatible” as
one of three important business continuity objectives). See also supra Section IV.B.1.b
(discussing adopted Rule 1001(a)(2)(v)).

1138

See supra notes 1117-1122 and accompanying text.

1139

See http://www.sifma.org/services/bcp/industry-testing/ (in which SIFMA describes its
annual BC/DR test held annually in October, which includes assets classes such as
commercial paper, equities, options, futures, fixed-income, settlement, payments,
Treasury auctions and market data).

1140

See supra note 1123 (noting Omgeo’s comment that voluntary participation levels are
low). See also Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18091, n. 83 and accompanying text
(noting that press reports indicated that a large number of NYSE members did not
participate in NYSE’s contingency plan testing that occurred seven months prior to
Superstorm Sandy).

373

realistic as possible,” 1141 because of the burden and costs of requiring participation by all SCI
entity members and participants, regardless of their market significance, the Commission
believes it is appropriate to adopt a more measured approach to mandatory participation in
BC/DR testing. 1142 The Commission is therefore adopting a BC/DR testing designation
requirement that applies to all SCI entities, but does not apply to all members and participants of
SCI entities, as discussed below. 1143
ii.

SCI Entity Designation of Members or Participants for
Participation in BC/DR Testing – Rules 1004(a)-(c)

Several commenters raised concerns about the proposed requirement that SCI entities
exercise discretion to designate members or participants for participation in coordinated BC/DR
testing under proposed Rule 1000(b)(9). 1144 After careful consideration of the views of
commenters, the Commission is adopting the requirement that SCI entities designate certain
members or participants to participate in testing BC/DR plans with certain modifications from
the proposal. As proposed, the rule would have required each SCI entity to designate those
members or participants it “deems necessary, for the maintenance of fair and orderly markets in
the event of the activation of its business continuity and disaster recovery plans…” The

1141

See supra note 1114 and accompanying text.

1142

In addition, because the Commission recognizes that the coordination of such testing is
complex and time-consuming, it has provided for a compliance date for the coordination
requirement of Rule 1004(d) that is 12 months after the compliance date required for
other provisions of Regulation SCI. See Section IV.F.

1143

In response to commenters seeking clarification on the types of systems that would be
subject to the mandatory testing requirement (see supra notes 1124-1125 and
accompanying text), because the required testing is BC/DR testing, all systems necessary
for an SCI entity to successfully activate it BC/DR plan would be included.

1144

See NYSE Letter at 33; FIF Letter at 6-7; Omgeo Letter at 26; Fidelity Letter at 6; and
Angel Letter at 10.

374

Commission has determined instead to require that each SCI entity designate those members or
participants “that the SCI entity reasonably determines are, taken as a whole, the minimum
necessary for the maintenance of fair and orderly markets in the event of the activation of such
plans.” This change is broadly consistent with the suggestion of one commenter to revise the
criteria for designation to those firms “critical to the operation of the SCI entity.” 1145 However,
the Commission believes that the adopted standard is more appropriate in that it focuses on the
ability of the SCI entity to maintain fair and orderly markets under its BC/DR plan. 1146
Several commenters suggested eliminating SCI entity discretion and setting forth in the
rule clear, objective criteria (such as trading volume) for which members or participants would
be required to participate in testing. 1147 One commenter suggested that the Commission require
that all members or participants that represent a meaningful percentage of the volume in the
marketplace participate in the testing in order to capture the more significant market participants,
while recognizing the financial burden such testing may pose for smaller entities. 1148 This
commenter believed that giving discretion to SCI entities in this area might lead to regulatory
arbitrage and a race to the bottom regarding how many and which members or participants are
designated to participate in testing. 1149 On the other hand, another commenter commented that
the discretion contemplated by the proposal keeps the rule flexible enough to accommodate SCI

1145

See ISE Letter at 9.

1146

As discussed more fully in Section IV.B.6.b.iv infra, the Commission also believes that
the adopted standard could, but would be unlikely to, cause members or participants to
elect to withdraw from participation in an SCI entity (particularly a smaller SCI entity) to
save on the cost of connectivity fees.

1147

See NYSE Letter at 33; Omgeo Letter at 26; Angel Letter at 10; and FIF Letter at 6.

1148

See NYSE Letter at 33.

1149

See NYSE Letter at 33.

375

entities conducting a diverse range of business activities. 1150 This commenter also suggested that
SCI entities should not be required to report to the Commission who they have designated to test,
and instead should only be required to keep a record of who they have designated. 1151
In response to commenters who were concerned about the discretionary aspect of the
designation requirement, 1152 the Commission believes the SCI entity is in the best position to
determine which of its members or participants collectively represent sufficient liquidity for the
SCI entity to maintain fair and orderly markets in a BC/DR scenario following a wide-scale
disruption. The Commission believes such determinations require the exercise of reasonable
judgment by each SCI entity, and are not well-suited for a “one-size-fits-all” objective measure
determined by the Commission. For example, if the Commission were to establish an objective
measure (e.g., based on a specified percentage of trading volume), it might represent a
meaningful percentage for some SCI entities, but not for others. Thus, the rule requires that each
SCI entity establish standards for the designation of those members or participants that the SCI
entity “reasonably” determines are, taken as a whole, the minimum necessary for the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets in the event of the activation of its BC/DR plans. This
adopted provision is in lieu of the proposed requirement, which would have required an SCI
entity to designate those members or participants it “deems necessary” for the maintenance of
fair and orderly markets in the event of the activation of its BC/DR plans. Because the adopted
rule requires an SCI entity’s determination to be reasonable, it provides some degree of
flexibility to SCI entities but also imposes a check on SCI entity discretion, which the

1150

See CME Letter at 12.

1151

See id. at 13.

1152

See supra notes 1144, 1147-1149 and accompanying text.

376

Commission believes should help prevent an SCI entity’s designations from being overly
limited. In response to concerns that a discretionary designation requirement would lead to
regulatory arbitrage and a race to the bottom regarding how many and which members or
participants are designated to participate in testing, the Commission believes that this is unlikely
to occur because each SCI entity will be subject to the same requirement and will be required to
make a reasonable determination that the designated members or participants are those that are
the minimum necessary for it to maintain fair and orderly markets in the event of activation of its
BC/DR plans. Further, the Commission believes that broad participation in BC/DR testing will
enhance the utility of the testing, and that allowing non-designated members or participants the
opportunity to participate in such testing generally will further this goal. Therefore, the
Commission encourages SCI entities to permit non-designated members or participants to
participate in the testing of the SCI entity’s BC/DR plans if they request to do so.
Consistent with the recommendation of one commenter, however, the Commission has
determined not to require that each SCI entity notify the Commission of its designations and its
standards for designation on Form SCI as proposed. Instead, an SCI entity’s standards,
designations, and updates, if applicable, would be part of its records and therefore available to
the Commission and its staff upon request. 1153 Unlike de minimis systems disruptions and de
minimis systems intrusions, which may occur with regularity (and for which a quarterly
summary report would aid Commission oversight of systems whose proper functioning is central
to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets), the establishment of standards for designation,
the designations themselves, and updates to such standards or designations are likely to occur
less frequently. Thus, the Commission believes it is sufficient for the Commission to review
1153

See infra Section IV.C.1 (discussing SCI entity recordkeeping requirements).

377

records relating to such designations when the Commission determines that it is necessary to do
so to fulfill its oversight role, such as during its examination of an SCI entity. 1154 More broadly,
the Commission believes this revision is generally consistent with modifications that the
Commission has made in response to comment that proposed Regulation SCI would have
required unnecessary and burdensome notice and reporting submissions.
Some commenters questioned whether many SCI entities, particularly non-SROs and
ATSs, have the authority to require their members or participants to participate in such
testing. 1155 Another commenter more generally stated that it was unclear how an SCI entity
could enforce a requirement that its customers engage in BC/DR testing. 1156 In response to these
comments, the Commission believes that SCI SRO rulemaking authority and non-SRO
contractual arrangements would enable SCI entities to implement this requirement. 1157
Specifically, SROs have the authority, and legal responsibility, under Section 6 of the Exchange
Act, to adopt and enforce rules (including rules to comply with Regulation SCI’s requirements
relating to BC/DR testing) applicable to their members or participants that are designed to,
1154

See supra Sections IV.A.3 and IV.B.3.c (discussing the rationale for quarterly reporting
of de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions).

1155

See Omgeo Letter at 26; MSRB Letter at 24; BIDS Letter at 8; LiquidNet Letter at 4; and
SIFMA Letter at 17. See also ITG Letter at 15-16.

1156

See SIFMA Letter at 17-18 (suggesting that the Commission instead adopt a “BCP
testing requirement more akin to the ‘best practices’ described in the Interagency White
Paper”).

1157

While some designated members or participants of SCI entities might choose to withdraw
from membership or participation in an SCI entity if they assess the cost of participating
in BC/DR testing to be too great, the Commission believes that other aspects of their
involvement with the SCI entity, including an interest in maintaining a profitable
business relationship, will factor significantly into any decision regarding their continued
membership or participation in the SCI entity. See also infra Sections VI.C.1.c and
VI.C.2.b.vii (discussing competition between SCI entities and non-SCI entities in relation
to the requirements under Rule 1004).

378

among other things, foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating,
clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in
securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a
national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. 1158 Further,
SCI entities that are not SROs have the ability to include provisions in their contractual
agreements with their participants (such as their subscriber or participant agreements) requiring
such parties to engage in BC/DR testing.
Other commenters focused on the potential impact of the rule on the members or
participants designated to participate in testing. One commenter pointed out that, without clearly
defined industry level coordination, some members or participants may be overburdened by
being subject to multiple individual tests with various SCI entities. 1159 Another commenter
asked the Commission to clarify what the obligation is for firms that are members or participants
at multiple SCI entities. 1160 Several commenters expressed concern that the Commission
underestimated the costs and burdens of the proposed testing. 1161 According to some of these
commenters, under the proposal, certain firms, such as market makers and other firms
performing important market functions, could be required to maintain connections to the backup

1158

See Section 6 of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78f.

1159

See OCC Letter at 18.

1160

See DTCC Letter at 13.

1161

See FINRA Letter at 37-39; OCC Letter at 18; Fidelity Letter at 6; Joint SROs Letter at
15-16; ISE Letter at 9; and Group One Letter at 3. See also infra Section VI (discussing
the costs and burdens of the requirement, including the costs for members or participants
to participate in BC/DR testing).

379

sites of a number of SCI entities, at significant cost. 1162 A group of commenters requested that
the scope be targeted to only cover those instances in which an SCI entity determines to enact its
disaster recovery plans. 1163 One commenter agreed that the designation requirement could be
relaxed and still achieve the provision’s aim, because the bulk of the liquidity at a market center
is provided by a small number of firms. 1164 Another commenter asked the Commission to give
designated firms the ability to opt-out if they have a good reason. 1165
The Commission believes that adoption of a more focused designation requirement that
requires SCI entities to exercise reasonable discretion to identify those members or participants
that, taken as a whole, are the “minimum necessary” for the maintenance of fair and orderly
markets in the event of the activation of such plans is likely to result in a smaller number of SCI
entity members or participants being designated for participation in testing as compared to the
SCI Proposal. Because the Commission believes that SCI entities have an incentive to limit the
imposition of the cost and burden associated with testing to the minimum necessary to comply
with the rule, it also believes that, given the option, most SCI entities would, in the exercise of
reasonable discretion, prefer to designate fewer members or participants to participate in testing,
than to designate more. On balance, the Commission believes that adopted rule will incentivize
SCI entities to designate those members and participants that are in fact the minimum necessary

1162

See FINRA Letter at 37-39; OCC Letter at 18; and Fidelity Letter at 6 (expressing
concern an SCI entity might cast a wide net with its designation powers to include more
firms than necessary).

1163

See Joint SROs Letter at 16 (noting the complexity of testing a scenario in which a
market participant may have enacted its business continuity plan but can still access an
SCI entity through the primary facility).

1164

See Tellefsen Letter at 9.

1165

See Fidelity Letter at 6.

380

for the maintenance of fair and orderly markets in the event of the activation of their BC/DR
plans, and that this should reduce the number of designations to which any particular member or
participant would be subject, as compared to the SCI Proposal, and would potentially simplify
efforts for SCI entities to coordinate BC/DR testing, as required by adopted Rule 1004(d).
Despite the modifications from the proposal, it remains possible, as some commenters noted, that
firms that are members of multiple SCI entities will be the subject of multiple designations, and
that multiple designations could require certain firms to maintain connections to and participate
in testing of the backup sites of multiple SCI entities. The Commission believes this possibility,
though real, may be mitigated by the fact that multiple designations are likely to be made to
firms that are already connected to one or more SCI entity backup facilities, since they represent
significant members or participants of the applicable SCI entities; and that, because some SCI
entity backup facilities are located in close proximity to each other, multiple connections to such
backup facilities may be less costly than if SCI entity backup facilities were not so located. The
Commission recognizes that there will be greater costs to a firm being designated by multiple
SCI entities to participate in the testing of their BC/DR plans than to a firm designated by only
one SCI entity. However, the Commission believes that these greater costs are warranted for
such firms, as they represent significant participants in each of the SCI entities for which they are
designated, and their participation in the testing of each such SCI entity’s BC/DR plans is
necessary to evaluate whether such plans are reliable and effective. The designation of a firm to
participate in the BC/DR testing of an SCI entity means that such firm is significant, as the SCI
entity has reasonably determined it to be included in the set of its members or participants that is,
“taken as a whole, the minimum necessary for the maintenance of fair and orderly markets in the
event of the activation of such plans.” Nonetheless, the Commission acknowledges that there

381

may be instances in which an SCI entity has reasonably designated a firm to participate in
BC/DR testing, and the firm is unwilling to bear the cost of participation in BC/DR testing with a
given SCI entity. In such instances, there may be firms that opt out of such testing by
withdrawing as a member or subscriber of one or more SCI entities, but the Commission believes
that is unlikely. In particular, the Commission believes that it is unlikely that a firm determined
to be significant enough to be designated to participate in testing by an SCI entity would choose
to withdraw its membership or participation in an SCI entity solely because of the costs and
burdens of Regulation SCI’s BC/DR testing provisions. The Commission also believes that such
firm is likely to be a larger firm with greater resources and a significant level of participation in
such SCI entity, and is likely to already be connected to the backup facility of the SCI SRO that
is designating it to test. 1166 Moreover, the Commission does not agree with the suggestion made
by one commenter that the Commission give designated firms the ability to “opt-out” if they
have a good reason, 1167 because the ability to opt-out in this manner would render participation
in BC/DR testing voluntary which, as discussed above, is unlikely to result in adequate BC/DR
testing. 1168 The Commission continues to believe, as stated in the SCI Proposal, that “unless
there is effective participation by certain of its members or participants in the testing of [BC/DR]
plans, the objective of ensuring resilient and available markets in general, and the maintenance of
fair and orderly markets in particular, would not be achieved.” 1169 Although the Commission
recognizes that testing of a BC/DR plan does not guarantee flawless execution of that plan, the

1166

See infra Section IV.B.6.b.iv.

1167

See Fidelity Letter at 6.

1168

See supra note 1140 and accompanying text.

1169

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18091, 18125.
382

Commission believes that a tested plan is likely to be more reliable and effective than an
inadequately tested plan. 1170
iii.

Scope, Timing, and Frequency of BC/DR Testing – Rule
1004(b)

The SCI Proposal specified that the type of testing for which designees would be required
to participate was “scheduled functional and performance testing of the operation of [BC/DR]
plans, in the manner and frequency specified by the SCI entity, at least once every 12
months.” 1171 After careful consideration of the views of commenters, the Commission is
adopting the scope, frequency, and timing requirements in the rule as proposed. Specifically,
adopted Rule 1004(b) requires that an SCI entity’s designees participate in “scheduled functional
and performance testing of the operation of [BC/DR] plans, in the manner and frequency
specified by the SCI entity, provided that such frequency shall not be less than once every 12
months.”
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission noted that functional testing is commonly
understood to examine whether a system operates in accordance with its specifications, whereas
performance testing examines whether a system is able to perform under a particular
workload. 1172 The Commission added that functional and performance testing should include
not only testing of connectivity, but also testing of an SCI entity’s systems, such as order entry,
execution, clearance and settlement, order routing, and the transmission and/or receipt of market

1170

Further, because the Commission believes that increased participation in BC/DR testing
is likely to enhance the utility of the testing, the Commission encourages SCI entities to
permit members or participants that do not meet the SCI entity’s reasonable designation
standards to participate in such testing if they request to do so.

1171

See proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)(i).

1172

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18125, n. 267.

383

data, as applicable, to determine if they can operate as contemplated by its business continuity
and disaster recovery plans. 1173 With regard to the proposed scope of testing, several
commenters expressed specific concerns about the requirement for “functional and performance”
testing of BC/DR plans. 1174 Specifically, one commenter expressed concern about the logistical
challenges of conducting functional and performance testing at the same time. 1175 Two
commenters expressed concern that requiring firms to perform industry-wide, end-to-end testing
by processing transactions in their disaster recovery systems would introduce risk to the markets
because such testing would increase the chance that test transactions could inadvertently be
introduced into production systems. 1176 Another commenter stated that a full functional test
across all primary and recovery data centers for any significant number of members or
participants would require substantial time to conduct and may require market downtime, as
would a full performance test. 1177 One group of commenters suggested that the scope of the

1173

See id. at 18126.

1174

See, e.g., FINRA Letter at 37; OCC Letter at 18; and DTCC Letter at 12.

1175

See FINRA Letter at 37 (stating that combining performance testing with functional
testing on weekends would be difficult and possibly not feasible because an end-to-end
functional test combined with a stress test would require much more time to
accommodate processing volumes than would be afforded in an abbreviated non-business
day session).

1176

See OCC Letter at 17-18 (stating that its systems and systems of many member firms are
configured to prevent test activity from being processed by production or disaster
recovery systems); and DTCC Letter at 12 (stating similarly that the testing proposed by
Rule 1000(b)(9) (as opposed to communication and connectivity testing) would not be
supported by most SCI entities’ current systems configurations, and encouraging the
Commission to consider this in adopting testing requirements).

1177

See Omgeo Letter at 26-27. This commenter urged a more limited scope of testing.
Specifically, this commenter urged the Commission to focus on “smoke testing,” which it
characterized as a more limited form of testing to validate that system functionality is
fully deployed and operational in the new recovered or resumed production environment,
and with respect to the goals of performance testing, a more limited set of system
384

requirement should be revised to only cover “functional and operational testing” of disaster
recovery plans, but requested additional guidance with regard to the scope of testing required to
establish the effectiveness of disaster recovery plans. 1178 This group of commenters expressed
concern about the “complexity and cost associated with establishing an effective coordinated test
script that captures the significant number of possibilities that may occur to each significant
market participant or SCI entity” and recommended that the scope of the coordinated functional
and operational testing requirements be revised to cover those instances in which an SCI entity
determines to enact its disaster recovery plan. 1179 Two commenters believed the tests should be
“scenario-based” to recreate as closely as possible the actual conditions that would trigger
widespread use of BC/DR plans. 1180
Adopted Rule 1004(b) provides that the scope of required testing is “functional and
performance testing of the operation of BC/DR plans.” As stated in the SCI Proposal, such
functional and performance testing should include not only testing of connectivity, but also
testing of an SCI entity’s systems, such as order entry, execution, clearance and settlement, order
routing, and the transmission and/or receipt of market data, as applicable, to determine if they

operations to assure that the recovery system would perform those operations at roughly
comparable speeds as those performed on the main production systems. This commenter
further stated that, in both cases, the purpose of these tests would be to validate that the
backup or recovery systems have the necessary functionality to perform the service
required of the SCI systems, and have sufficient capacity to process the production
workloads at roughly comparable levels of performance, rather than to test the actual
functional or performance characteristics of the backup or alternate recovery systems in
their own right. See Omgeo Letter at 27.
1178

See Joint SROs Letter at 15-16.

1179

See id. at 16.

1180

See FIF Letter at 7; and UBS Letter at 4.

385

can operate as contemplated by its business continuity and disaster recovery plans. 1181 In
response to commenters expressing concern about the breadth of the requirement, the
Commission notes that the rule requires functional and performance testing of the “operation of
[BC/DR] plans.” While the type of testing required by adopted Rule 1004(b) is more rigorous
than some types of testing urged by some commenters, the Commission does not believe that the
requirement for “functional and performance testing of the operation of such plans” requires
additional testing that is as burdensome as that feared by some of those commenters.
Importantly, “functional and performance testing of the operation of [BC/DR] plans” entails
testing that goes beyond communication and connectivity testing, and beyond validation testing,
which are more limited types of testing urged by some commenters. But the requirement to
conduct “functional and performance testing of the operation of [BC/DR] plans” does not mean
that a full test of the functional and performance characteristics of each backup facility is
required to be conducted all at once and in coordination with other SCI entities all at the same
time, as some commenters characterized the proposed requirement. 1182 Specifically, the
Commission notes that the testing of BC/DR plans, which is required by Rule 1004, is different
from testing of the function and performance of backup facilities generally. 1183 What Rule 1004
requires is coordinated testing to evaluate annually whether such backup facilities of SCI entities
1181

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18126.

1182

Conducting the required testing is not intended to require market downtime, but permits a
range of possibilities, as SCI entities determine to be appropriate, including weekend
testing, as well as testing in segments over the course of a year, if SCI entities determine
that, to meet the requirements of the rule, a single annual test cannot be properly
conducted within a single period of time (e.g., over the course of a weekend).

1183

Testing of the function and performance of backup facilities generally would occur
before such facilities are launched into production (such as pursuant to Rule 1001(a)),
and Regulation SCI does not impose a requirement for coordinating such testing with
other SCI entities.

386

can function and perform in accordance with the operation of BC/DR plans in the event of widescale disruption. In addition, the Commission notes that performance testing, which examines
whether a system is able to perform under a particular workload, is not synonymous with “stress
testing,” in which capacity limits are tested, and therefore should not require as much time to
conduct as one commenter suggested.
In response to commenters concerned that the required testing would necessitate system
reconfigurations, 1184 the Commission understands that the requirement to test backup facilities
may require technology adjustments to permit testing activity to be processed by BC/DR
systems, and believes that such adjustments to permit testing are warranted to achieve the goal,
as discussed above, of achieving reliable and effective BC/DR plans at SCI entities. The
Commission also believes that such system reconfigurations would be less burdensome than a
Commission rule requiring the establishment of a dedicated environment for safe end-to-end
testing that accurately simulates the trading environment, which some commenters suggested
might be appropriate. One group of commenters noted the “complexity and cost associated with
establishing an effective coordinated test script,” and urged that the scope of the coordinated
testing be “narrowed to cover those instances in which an SCI entity determines to enact its
disaster recovery plan.” The Commission acknowledges that establishment of an effective
coordinated test script will involve some costs and complexity, but believes that this is an
important first step in establishing robust and effective testing under the rule. The Commission
encourages SCI entities to develop one or more test scripts contemplating a wide-scale disruption
1184

See supra note 1176 and accompanying text. See also Tradebook Letter at 2-3 (stating its
view that “the only way to test integration from order generation to allocation and then
through to final settlement, is in the production environment” and “test tickers that
operate in the production environment are the only way to reliably simulate exactly what
will happen in the production environment with a live order”).

387

and the enactment by SCI entities in the region of the wide-scale disruption of their BC/DR
plans.
Further, the Commission notes that nothing in Rule 1001(a) nor Rule 1004 requires that
an SCI entity’s BC/DR plan specify that its backup site must fully replicate the capacity, speed,
and other features of the primary site. Similarly, SCI entity members and participants are not
required by Regulation SCI to maintain the same level of connectivity with the backup sites of an
SCI entity as they do with the primary sites. 1185 In the event of a wide-scale disruption in the
securities markets, the Commission acknowledges that an SCI entity and its members or
participants may not be able to provide the same level of liquidity as on a normal trading day. In
addition, the Commission recognizes that the concept of “fair and orderly markets” does not
require that trading on a day when business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in effect
will reflect the same levels of liquidity, depth, volatility, and other characteristics of trading on a
normal trading day. Nevertheless, the Commission believes it is critical that SCI entities and
their designated members or participants be able to operate with the SCI entities’ backup systems
in the event of a wide-scale disruption. Therefore, Rule 1004 requires that an SCI entity’s
BC/DR plan that meets the requirements of Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) be tested for both its functionality
and performance as specified by the SCI entity’s BC/DR plan.
In addition, several commenters addressed testing more generally. 1186 For example, some
commenters urged that comprehensive, industry-wide, end-to-end testing could be enhanced if

1185

See infra Section VI.C.2.b.vii (discussing the estimated costs of adopted Rule 1004).

1186

See Tradebook Letter at 1-3; CAST Letter at 9; FIA PTG Letter at 2; and CoreOne Letter
at 3-7.

388

there were uniform test tickers supported by the testing infrastructure at all SCI entities. 1187 Two
commenters urged the establishment of principles for end-to-end, integrated testing. 1188
Specifically, one of these commenters suggested that SCI entities, the Commission, and relevant
third-parties think about how to establish a dedicated environment where end-to-end testing
could be done safely, and where it could accurately simulate the trading environment. 1189 This
commenter also suggested that testing plans concentrate on high volume periods, stress testing
common order types, and focusing on securities that generally experience low liquidity. 1190 This
commenter believed that industry-wide testing should include derivatives and cross-asset
scenarios, and possibly include some involvement by foreign regulators and markets as well. 1191
While the suggestions of these commenters are not inconsistent with the rule’s requirement for
functional and performance testing of BC/DR plans, the Commission has determined not to
require them because the Commission does not believe, at this time, that these suggestions are
necessary in every instance to achieve reliable and effective BC/DR plans at SCI entities.
However, to the extent an SCI entity believes them to be appropriate for its systems, these
suggestions could be utilized in its BC/DR plans testing.
Importantly, the adopted rule does not prescribe how SCI entities are to develop plans for
functional and performance testing of order entry, execution, clearance and settlement, order
routing, and the transmission and/or receipt of market data, as applicable, to determine if these
functions can operate as contemplated by SCI entity BC/DR plans. Thus, as with the proposed
1187

See Tradebook Letter at 2-3; CAST Letter at 9; and FIA PTG Letter at 2.

1188

See CoreOne Letter at 3; and Tradebook Letter at 1-3.

1189

See CoreOne Letter at 3.

1190

See id. at 3-4.

1191

See id. at 7.

389

requirement, the adopted rule provides an SCI entity with discretion to determine the precise
manner and content of the BC/DR testing required pursuant to Rule 1004, and SCI entities have
discretion to determine, for example, the duration of the testing, the sample size of transactions
tested, the scenarios tested, and the scope of the test. Therefore, while comments urging the
creation of uniform test tickers, establishment of principles for end-to-end testing, mandatory
types of test scripts, and cross-asset and cross-jurisdictional coordination are matters that SCI
entities may wish to consider in implementing the testing required by the rule, the Commission
does not believe it is appropriate to mandate such details in Regulation SCI. To do so would be
more prescriptive than the Commission believes is appropriate, as this requirement is designed to
provide SCI entities flexibility and discretion in determining how to meet it. The Commission
believes that the adopted testing requirement will help to improve securities market infrastructure
resilience by helping to ensure not only that an SCI entity can operate following an event that
triggers its BC/DR plans, but also that it can do so with a greater level of confidence that its core
members or participants are also ready based on experience during testing. The Commission is
adopting Rule 1004(b) substantively as proposed because it gives SCI entities discretion to
develop a test that meets the requirements of the rule.
One commenter recommended requiring that each entity be run entirely under its backup
plan at least one day a year for a full trading day, and that the entire market run off of the backup
sites at least once a year. 1192 While adopted Rule 1004 would not preclude this approach, the
Commission notes that other commenters disagreed with the wisdom of it. 1193 Specifically, one
group of commenters stated that the risks of testing in a “live production environment on a
1192

See Angel Letter at 10.

1193

See Joint SROs Letter at 15; and Group One Letter at 2.

390

periodic basis” outweigh the benefits. 1194 Another commenter stated that requiring SCI entities
to operate using their backup facilities would increase the risk of erroneous quotes and orders
entering the marketplace. 1195
After careful consideration of these comments, the Commission has determined not to
prescribe the time of day or week during which testing shall occur. In addition, the adopted rule
does not require an SCI entity to test its BC/DR plan in live production, but also does not
prohibit an SCI entity from testing its BC/DR plans in live production, either, if an SCI entity
determines such a method of testing to be appropriate. The Commission continues to believe
that SCI entities are in the best position to structure the details of the test in a way that would
maximize its utility.
With respect to testing frequency, one commenter agreed with the proposal that an SCI
entity’s BC/DR plans, including its backup systems, be tested “at least once every 12
months.” 1196 One commenter stated that the rule should explicitly set forth the required
frequency of testing. 1197 One commenter believed that two coordinated industry tests per year
would be more appropriate. 1198 One commenter believed that testing once per year is arbitrary,
and suggested that a risk-based approach might justify testing certain systems with more or less
frequency. 1199

1194

See Joint SROs Letter at 15.

1195

See Group One Letter at 2.

1196

See DTCC Letter at 13

1197

See NYSE Letter at 33.

1198

See FIF Letter at 6.

1199

See MSRB Letter at 24.

391

The Commission is adopting as proposed the requirement that testing occur not less than
once every 12 months. Although commenters offered differing views on the appropriate
frequency for the required testing, 1200 the Commission continues to believe that a testing
frequency of once every 12 months is an appropriate minimum frequency that encourages
regular and focused attention on the establishment of meaningful and effective testing. In the
context of coordinated BC/DR testing, the Commission believes the key is for testing to occur
regularly enough to offer practical utility in the event of a wide-scale disruption without
imposing undue cost, and that a minimum frequency of one year achieves this balance. This
requirement does not prevent SCI entities from testing more frequently, but rather is intended to
give SCI entities the flexibility to test their BC/DR plans, including their backup systems, at
more frequent intervals if they find it appropriate to do so.
iv.

Industry- or Sector-Wide Coordination – Rule 1004(d)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)(a)(ii) specified that an SCI entity would be required to
coordinate the testing of BC/DR plans on an industry- or sector-wide basis with other SCI
entities. The Commission received significant comment on this aspect of the proposal.
Two commenters supported the coordinated testing requirement. 1201 Specifically, one of
these commenters stated that a coordination requirement targets an area where technology risks
have left the markets more vulnerable, namely, the complex ways that firms interact. 1202 This
commenter favored market-wide testing as a way to better manage that risk. 1203 This commenter

1200

See supra notes 1196-1199.

1201

See Angel Letter at 9; and UBS Letter at 4.

1202

See Angel Letter at 9.

1203

See id.

392

also stated that coordination is vital because the more SCI entities and member firms that
participate in testing, the more realistic that testing will be. 1204 Another commenter noted that
one of the most important steps in validating and maintaining systems integrity is an effective
BC/DR model and urged the Commission to promptly advance a program to introduce a new and
more comprehensive BC/DR testing paradigm. 1205
In contrast, some commenters opposed the proposed comprehensive, coordinated testing
structure. 1206 Some commenters stated that coordinating testing presents significant
technological and logistical challenges that need to be weighed carefully. 1207 One commenter
stated that coordinated testing is a good aspirational goal, but expressed concern that too much is
outside of the control of an individual SCI entity, and therefore the rule should, at most, require
SCI entities to attempt to coordinate such testing. 1208 Another commenter stated that the fixedincome market is so fragmented that coordinated testing is difficult to conduct and much less
imperative. 1209
Some commenters offered suggestions on how to improve the proposed coordination
requirement. One commenter urged that coordination only be required among providers of
singular services in the market (i.e., exchanges that list securities, exclusive processors under

1204

See id.

1205

See UBS Letter at 4-5. This commenter also stated that improved BC/DR testing should
not be delayed until Regulation SCI is adopted. See UBS Letter at 5.

1206

See DTCC Letter at 12-13; FINRA Letter at 37-39; OCC Letter at 17-18; and ISE Letter
at 8.

1207

See LiquidPoint Letter at 4; and SIFMA Letter at 17-18. See also supra notes 1175-1177
and accompanying text.

1208

See CME Letter at 13.

1209

See TMC Letter at 3.

393

NMS plans, and clearing and settlement agencies). 1210 Some commenters believed that
coordination would work best if it was organized by an entity with regulatory authority over SCI
entities, or by an organization designated by the Commission to fulfill that role. 1211 One such
commenter supported coordinating testing through a Commission-approved plan, provided SCI
entities have the right to maintain the confidentiality of certain critical information. 1212 Another
commenter recommended that the Commission work with the CFTC to adopt a coordinated
approach to dealing with technology issues across financial markets, including through
participation by derivatives exchanges in testing alongside their equity markets counterparts. 1213
After careful consideration of the comments, the Commission has determined to adopt
the coordination requirement as proposed. Specifically, Rule 1004(d) requires that an SCI entity
“coordinate the testing of [BC/DR] plans on an industry- or sector-wide basis with other SCI
entities.” The Commission recognizes that coordinating industry- or sector-wide testing among
SCI entities and their designated members or participants may present logistical challenges.
Because of these challenges, the Commission does not believe that a more prescriptive approach
is warranted. Instead, the coordination requirement provides discretion to SCI entities to
determine how to meet it.
The Commission does not agree with commenters suggesting that the Commission
should assume leadership on the organization of coordinated testing, designate an organization to
fulfill that role, or require a “Commission-approved plan” for testing, because it believes at this

1210

See Direct Edge Letter at 9.

1211

See DTCC Letter at 13; OCC Letter at 18; and NYSE Letter at 33.

1212

See NYSE Letter at 33.

1213

See Angel Letter at 12.

394

time that SCI entities can achieve coordination more quickly and efficiently without the
imposition of a formal procedural framework that these suggestions would entail. 1214 In
response to comment suggesting that coordination should be aspirational rather than required, the
Commission believes that, because trading in the U.S. securities markets today is dispersed
among a wide variety of exchanges, ATSs, and other trading venues, and is often conducted
through sophisticated trading strategies that access many trading platforms simultaneously,
requiring SCI entities to coordinate testing would result in testing under more realistic market
conditions. 1215 The Commission also continues to believe that it would be more cost-effective
for SCI entity members and participants to participate in testing of SCI entity BC/DR plans on an
industry- or sector-wide basis than to test with each SCI entity on an individual basis because
such coordination would likely reduce duplicative testing efforts. 1216 In addition, if SCI entities
that are “providers of singular services” in the markets (i.e., which the Commission believes
would be synonymous with SCI entities that are providers of “critical SCI systems”) lead

1214

With respect to the suggestion that there be a Commission approved plan, the
Commission notes that Rule 608 of Regulation NMS is designed to facilitate participation
in NMS plans by self-regulatory organizations, which does not include SCI entities that
are not SCI SROs, including SCI ATSs. The Commission notes that at least one
commenter suggested that the Commission work with the CFTC to adopt a coordinated
approach to testing. But, as discussed above, the Commission believes that Regulation
SCI is an important step to reduce the risks associated with a decision to activate BC/DR
plans. And, although the Commission may in the future consider additional initiatives to
promote further coordination with the CFTC, in the Commission’s view, this initial step
of adopting Regulation SCI should not be delayed.

1215

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18126.

1216

In response to comment that coordinated BC/DR testing is not needed in the current
fixed-income market, the Commission notes that it has determined to exclude ATSs
trading only municipal securities or corporate debt securities from the scope of
Regulation SCI. See supra notes 189-192 and accompanying text (discussing the
exclusion of ATSs trading only fixed-income securities from the definition of SCI ATS).

395

coordination efforts on behalf of all SCI entities, such an approach would not be impermissible
under Rule 1004(d), provided all SCI entities agreed to such an approach.
In response to commenters who more generally expressed concern about the rule
subjecting SCI entity members and participants to multiple duplicative and costly testing
requirements, 1217 the Commission notes that the flexibility provided in the adopted coordination
requirement, in tandem with the more focused adopted mandatory designation requirement
should mitigate these concerns. As discussed above, adoption of a more focused designation
requirement that requires SCI entities to exercise reasonable discretion is likely to reduce the
extent to which SCI entity member or participant designations overlap and possibly result in a
smaller number of SCI entity members or participants being designated for participation in
testing than as contemplated by the SCI Proposal, and a fewer number of members or
participants designated to participate in testing should simplify efforts to coordinate testing.
However, as some commenters noted, it remains possible that, despite coordination, some firms
that are members of multiple SCI entities may be designated to participate in testing with
multiple SCI entities at greater cost than if they had been designated by only one SCI entity, and
may be required to test more than once annually, as this may be necessary for each SCI entity to
meet its obligations under the rule. Though the Commission recognizes that the possibility of
being designated by multiple SCI entities to participate in the testing of their BC/DR plans may
be costly, the Commission ultimately believes that such a cost is appropriate to help ensure that
the BC/DR plan of each SCI entity is useful and effective. If, for example, a firm is designated
for mandatory testing by multiple SCI entities, it would be so designated because each such SCI
entity determines that such firm is necessary to the successful activation of its BC/DR plan. The
1217

See supra notes 1159-1160 and accompanying text.

396

Commission recognizes that it is conceivable that a firm that is required to participate in testing
with multiple SCI entities assesses the costs and burdens of participating in every such test to be
too great, and makes its own business decision to withdraw its membership or participation in
one or more such SCI entities so as to avoid the costs and burdens of such testing, but believes
such scenario to be unlikely. Specifically, the Commission believes that it is unlikely that a firm
determined to be significant enough to be designated to participate in testing by an SCI entity
(even a smaller SCI entity) would choose to withdraw its membership or participation in an SCI
entity solely because of the costs and burdens of Regulation SCI’s BC/DR testing provisions.
The Commission also believes that such firm is likely to be a larger firm with greater resources
and a significant level of participation in such SCI entity, and is likely to already be connected to
the backup facility of the SCI SRO that is designating it to test. The Commission continues to
believe that SCI entities are best suited to find the most efficient and effective manner in which
to test its BC/DR plans. 1218
Furthermore, the Commission is also adopting a longer compliance period with regard to
the industry- or sector-wide coordinated testing requirement in adopted Rule 1004(d). 1219
Specifically, SCI entities will have 21 months from the Effective Date to coordinate the testing
of an SCI entity’s business continuity and disaster recovery plans on an industry- or sector-wide
basis with other SCI entities pursuant to adopted Rule 1004(d). In sum, the Commission
believes that Rule 1004, as adopted, will enhance the resilience of the infrastructure of the U.S.
securities markets.

1218

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18126.

1219

See infra Section IV.F (discussing the delayed implementation time for adopted Rule
1004(d)).

397

C.

Recordkeeping, Electronic Filing on Form SCI, and Access – Rules 10051007

Adopted Rules 1005 through 1007 specify several additional requirements of Regulation
SCI relating to recordkeeping and electronic filing and submission. As discussed below, the
Commission has determined not to adopt the proposed provision regarding Commission access
to the systems of an SCI entity because the Commission can adequately assess an SCI entity’s
compliance with Regulation SCI through existing recordkeeping requirements and examination
authority, as well as through the new recordkeeping requirement in Rule 1005 of Regulation SCI.
1.

Recordkeeping – Rules 1005-1007
a.

Recordkeeping Related to Compliance with Regulation SCI –
Rule 1005

Proposed Rule 1000(c) required SCI SROs to make, keep, and preserve all documents
relating to their compliance with Regulation SCI, as prescribed in Rule 17a-1 under the
Exchange Act. Proposed Rule 1000(c) required SCI entities other than SCI SROs to: make,
keep, and preserve at least one copy of all documents relating to their compliance with
Regulation SCI; keep these documents for not less than five years, the first two years in a place
that is readily accessible to the Commission or its representatives for inspection and
examination; and promptly furnish to Commission representatives 1220 copies of any of these
documents upon request. Further, proposed Rule 1000(c) provided that, upon or immediately
prior to ceasing to do business or ceasing to be registered under the Exchange Act, an SCI entity
must ensure that the required records are accessible to the Commission and its representatives in
a manner required by Rule 1000(c) for the remainder of the period required by Rule 1000(c).

1220

As discussed above, the Commission has renamed the ARP Inspection Program the
Technology Controls Program. See supra note 6.

398

The Commission received one comment letter supporting proposed Rule 1000(c). 1221
The Commission is adopting Rule 1000(c) as proposed, but re-designated as Rule 1005. 1222
As noted in the SCI Proposal, SCI entities are already subject to recordkeeping
requirements, 1223 but records relating to Regulation SCI may not be specifically addressed in
certain current recordkeeping rules. 1224 As adopted, Rule 1005 specifically addresses
recordkeeping requirements for SCI entities with respect to records relating to Regulation SCI
compliance.
With respect to SCI SROs, Rule 17a-1(a) under the Exchange Act requires every national
securities exchange, national securities association, registered clearing agency, and the MSRB to
keep and preserve at least one copy of all documents, including all correspondence, memoranda,
papers, books, notices, accounts, and other such records as shall be made and received by it in

1221

See MSRB Letter at 25. As discussed above, some commenters suggested recordkeeping
in lieu of certain Commission reporting requirements. See, e.g., supra note 881 and
accompanying text.

1222

The Commission notes that adopted Rule 1005 replaces the term “SCI security systems”
with “indirect SCI systems” as described in more detail in Section IV.A.2.d.
Furthermore, internal cross references to Rules 1000(c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) in Rule
1000(c)(2)(iii) were updated to paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of Rule 1005 in accordance
with the renumbering of the rule.

1223

See, e.g., 17 CFR 240.17a-1, applicable to SCI SROs; 17 CFR 240.17a-3 and 17a-4,
applicable to broker-dealers; and 17 CFR 242.301-303, applicable to ATSs.
It has been the experience of the Commission that SCI entities presently subject to the
ARP Inspection Program (nearly all of whom are SCI SROs that are also subject to the
recordkeeping requirements of Rule 17a-1(a)) do generally keep and preserve the types of
records that would be subject to the requirements of Rule 1005. Nevertheless, the
Commission continues to believe that Regulation SCI’s codification of these preservation
practices will support an accurate, timely, and efficient inspection and examination
process and help ensure that all types of SCI entities keep and preserve such records.

1224

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18128.

399

the course of its business as such and in the conduct of its self-regulatory activity. 1225 In
addition, Rule 17a-1(b) requires these entities to keep all such documents for a period of not less
than five years, the first two years in an easily accessible place, subject to the destruction and
disposition provisions of Rule 17a-6. 1226 Rule 17a-1(c) requires these entities, upon request of
any representative of the Commission, to promptly furnish to the possession of Commission
representatives copies of any documents required to be kept and preserved by it pursuant to
Rules 17a-1(a) and (b). 1227 Therefore, as noted in the SCI Proposal, the breadth of Rule 17a-1
under the Exchange Act is such that it would require SCI SROs to make, keep, and preserve
records relating to their compliance with Regulation SCI. 1228 The Commission continues to
believe that it is appropriate to cross-reference Rule 17a-1 in Rule 1005 to be clear that all SCI
entities are subject to the same recordkeeping requirements regarding compliance with
Regulation SCI. The Commission also continues to believe that it is appropriate to adopt
recordkeeping requirements for SCI entities other than SCI SROs that are consistent with the
recordkeeping requirements applicable to SROs under Rule 17a-1 under the Exchange Act. The

1225

See 17 CFR 240.17a-1(a). Such records would, for example, include copies of incident
reports and the results of systems testing.

1226

See 17 CFR 240.17a-1(b). Rule 17a-6(a) under the Exchange Act states: “Any
document kept by or on file with a national securities exchange, national securities
association, registered clearing agency or the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board
pursuant to the Act or any rule or regulation thereunder may be destroyed or otherwise
disposed of by such exchange, association, clearing agency or the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board at the end of five years or at such earlier date as is specified in a plan
for the destruction or disposition of any such documents if such plan has been filed with
the Commission by such exchange, association, clearing agency or the Municipal
Securities Rulemaking Board and has been declared effective by the Commission.” 17
CFR 240.17a-6(a).

1227

See 17 CFR 240.17a-1(c).

1228

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18128.

400

Commission believes it is important to require such records be kept at both SCI SROs and SCI
entities other than SCI SROs because such records are essential to understanding whether an SCI
entity is meeting its obligations under Regulation SCI, to assess whether an SCI entity has
appropriate policies and procedures with respect to its technology systems, to help identify the
causes and consequences of an SCI event, and to understand the types of material systems
changes occurring at an SCI entity. 1229
Further, as noted above, the definitions of SCI system and indirect SCI system include
systems operated “on behalf of” an SCI entity by third parties. An SCI entity retains legal
responsibility for systems operated on its behalf and, as such, is responsible for producing to
Commission representatives records required to be made, kept, and preserved under Regulation
SCI, even if those records are maintained by third parties, and the SCI entity is responsible for
ensuring that such third parties produce those requested documents, upon examination or other
request. Accordingly, the Commission believes that an SCI entity should have processes and
requirements in place, such as contractual provisions with a third party, to ensure that it is able to
satisfy the requirements of Regulation SCI for systems operated on its behalf by a third party,
including the recordkeeping requirements in Rule 1005. 1230 The Commission believes that if an

1229

To achieve the goals for which the recordkeeping requirements are designed, and to
comply with the recordkeeping requirements of Rule 17a-1 and Rule 1005 of Regulation
SCI, SCI entities must ensure that the records that they make, keep, and maintain are
complete and accurate.

1230

See also Rule 1007, which states that, if records required to be filed or kept by an SCI
entity under Regulation SCI are prepared or maintained by a service bureau or other
recordkeeping service on behalf of the SCI entity, the SCI entity is required to ensure that
the records are available for review by the Commission and its representatives by
submitting a written undertaking, in a form acceptable to the Commission, by such
service bureau or other recordkeeping service, signed by a duly authorized person at such
service bureau or other recordkeeping service.

401

SCI entity is unable to ensure compliance with Regulation SCI with regard to third party systems
or recordkeeping, it should reassess its decision to outsource its systems or recordkeeping.
The Commission believes that Rule 1005 will facilitate its inspections and examinations
of SCI entities and assist it in evaluating an SCI entity’s compliance with Regulation SCI. In
particular, Rule 1005 should facilitate Commission examination of SCI entities by helping to
reduce delays in obtaining relevant records during an examination. Therefore, as noted in the
SCI Proposal, the Commission’s ability to examine for, and enforce compliance with, Regulation
SCI could be hampered if an SCI entity were not required to adequately provide accessibility to
its records for the full proposed retention period.
Further, while many SCI events may occur, be discovered, and be resolved in a short time
frame, there may be other SCI events that may not be discovered until months or years after their
occurrences, or may take significant periods of time to fully resolve. In such cases, having an
SCI entity’s records available even after it has ceased to do business or be registered under the
Exchange Act would be beneficial. Because SCI events have the potential to negatively impact
trade execution, price discovery, liquidity, and investor participation, the Commission believes
that its ability to oversee the securities markets could be undermined if it is unable to review
records to determine the causes and consequences of one or more SCI events experienced by an
SCI entity that deregisters or ceases to do business. This information should provide an
additional tool to help the Commission reconstruct important market events and better
understand how such events impacted trade execution, price discovery, liquidity, and investor
participation.
b.

Service Bureau – Rule 1007

402

Proposed Rule 1000(e) required that, if the records required to be filed or kept by an SCI
entity under Regulation SCI were prepared or maintained by a service bureau or other
recordkeeping service on behalf of the SCI entity, the SCI entity ensure that the records are
available for review by the Commission and its representatives by submitting a written
undertaking, in a form acceptable to the Commission, by such service bureau or other
recordkeeping service and signed by a duly authorized person at such service bureau or other
recordkeeping service. Further, the written undertaking was required to include an agreement by
the service bureau designed to permit the Commission and its representatives to examine such
records at any time or from time to time during business hours, and to promptly furnish to the
Commission and its representatives true, correct, and current electronic files in a form acceptable
to the Commission or its representatives or hard copies of any, all, or any part of such records,
upon request, periodically, or continuously and, in any case, within the same time periods as
would apply to the SCI entity for such records. Proposed Rule 1000(e) also provided that the
preparation or maintenance of records by a service bureau or other recordkeeping service would
not relieve an SCI entity from its obligation to prepare, maintain, and provide the Commission
and its representatives with access to such records.
The Commission did not receive any comments on proposed Rule 1000(e) and is
adopting Rule 1000(e) as proposed, but re-designated as Rule 1007. As noted in the SCI
Proposal, Rule 1007 is substantively the same as the requirement applicable to broker-dealers
under Rule 17a-4(i) of the Exchange Act. 1231 The Commission continues to believe that this
requirement will help ensure the Commission’s ability to obtain required records that are held by
a third party who may not otherwise have an obligation to make such records available to the
1231

17 CFR 240.17a-4(i). See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18129.

403

Commission. In addition, the Commission continues to believe that the requirement that SCI
entities obtain from such third parties a written undertaking will also help ensure that such
service bureau or other recordkeeping service is aware of its obligation with respect to records
relating to Regulation SCI. The Commission believes that this requirement will help ensure that
the Commission has prompt and efficient access to all required records, including those housed
at a service bureau or any other recordkeeping service. 1232
2.

Electronic Filing and Submission of Reports, Notifications, and Other
Communications – Rule 1006

Proposed Rule 1000(d) required that, except with respect to notifications to the
Commission made pursuant to proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i) (Commission notification of certain
SCI events) or oral notifications to the Commission made pursuant to proposed Rule
1000(b)(6)(ii) (Commission notification of certain material systems changes), any notification,
review, description, analysis, or report to the Commission required under Regulation SCI be
submitted electronically on Form SCI and include an electronic signature. Proposed Rule
1000(d) also required that the signatory to an electronically submitted Form SCI manually sign a
signature page or document, in the manner prescribed by Form SCI, authenticating,
acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in typed form within the
electronic filing. This document would be required to be executed before or at the time Form
SCI is electronically submitted and would be required to be retained by the SCI entity in
accordance with the recordkeeping requirements of Regulation SCI. The Commission is
adopting Rule 1000(d) substantially as proposed, as discussed below, but re-designated as Rule
1006.

1232

See 17 CFR 240.17a-4(i) (records preserved or maintained by a service bureau).

404

One commenter supported the electronic submission of Form SCI. 1233 One commenter
suggested that the Commission should make clear that Regulation SCI filings do not need to be
made in a tagged data format such as XBRL, which could be costly. 1234 Another commenter
stated that the electronic signature requirement was appropriate only if the final rule included a
safe harbor for good faith reporting of SCI events. 1235 According to this commenter, the
requirement that there be an electronic signature and a manual signature could put SCI entity
personnel at risk if it is later determined that there were factual errors, omissions, or other flaws
in the initial filing. 1236
After consideration of the comments, the Commission is adopting Rule 1000(d)
substantially as proposed, and with updated internal cross references to reflect revisions to other
aspects of Regulation SCI, as adopted. Specifically, Rule 1006 provides that notifications made
pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(1) (immediate Commission notification of SCI events) and updates
made pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(3) (updates regarding SCI events) are not required to be filed on
Form SCI. 1237 As noted in the SCI Proposal, Rule 1006 is intended to provide a uniform manner
in which the Commission would receive—and SCI entities would provide—written notifications,

1233

See MSRB Letter at 25.

1234

See OTC Markets Letter at 4. See also FINRA Letter at 28.

1235

See Omgeo Letter at 20.

1236

See id.

1237

See supra Section IV.B.3.c (discussing the Commission notification requirement for SCI
events). Adopted Rule 1006 refers to an electronically “filed” Form SCI, rather than an
electronically “submitted” Form SCI as proposed in Rule 1000(d)(1). This change
clarifies that notices and reports required to be submitted under Regulation SCI are
filings under the Exchange Act and Regulation SCI. See proposed and adopted 17 CFR
249.1900 (stating that Form SCI shall be used to “file” notices and reports as required by
Regulation SCI). See also amended Rule 24b-2 (referring to material “filed” in electronic
format on Form SCI).

405

reviews, descriptions, analyses, or reports made pursuant to Regulation SCI. 1238 Rule 1006
should therefore allow SCI entities to efficiently draft and submit the required reports, and for
the Commission to efficiently review, analyze, and respond to the information provided. 1239 In
addition, the Commission believes that filing Form SCI in an electronic format would be less
burdensome and more efficient for SCI entities and the Commission than mailing and filing
paper forms. 1240 Further, after considering comments regarding the burden of submitting Form
SCI in a tagged data format such as XBRL, the Commission is not requiring the use of XBRL
formatting for Form SCI. Rather, certain fields in Sections I-III of Form SCI will require
information to be provided by SCI entities in a format that will allow the Commission to gather
information in a structured manner (e.g., the submission type and SCI event type in Section I),
whereas the exhibits to Form SCI will allow SCI entities to provide narrative responses, such as
through a text format. Further, the Commission also is specifying that documents filed through
the EFFS system must be in a text-searchable format without the use of optical character
recognition. If, however, a portion of a Form SCI submission (e.g., an image or diagram) cannot
be made available in a text-searchable format, such portion may be submitted in a non-textsearchable format. 1241 The Commission believes that requiring documents to be submitted in a
text-searchable format (with the limited exception noted) is necessary to allow Commission staff
to efficiently review and analyze information provided by SCI entities. In particular, a text1238

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18129-30.

1239

See id. at 18130.

1240

The Commission will implement Form SCI through the electronic form filing system
(“EFFS”) currently used by SCI SROs to file Form 19b-4 filings. See Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 50486 (October 4, 2004), 69 FR 60287 (October 8, 2004)
(adopting the EFFS for use in filing Form 19b-4). See also Proposing Release, supra note
13, at 18130.

1241

See General Instructions to Form SCI, Item A.
406

searchable format allows Commission staff to better gather, analyze and use data submitted as
exhibits, whereas a non-text-searchable format submission would require significantly more
steps and labor to review and analyze data. The Commission notes that word processing and
spreadsheet applications that are widely used by many businesses, including SCI entities,
generate documents in this format.
As noted above, one commenter stated that the electronic signature requirement was
appropriate only if the final rule included a safe harbor for good faith reporting of SCI events.
The Commission is adopting the electronic signature requirement as proposed. The Commission
notes that, as discussed above in Section IV.B.3.c, immediate Commission notification following
an SCI event and updates regarding the SCI event may be given orally; the 24-hour Commission
notification is required to be made on a good faith, best efforts basis; and the final Commission
notification is not required until the resolution of the SCI event and the completion of the SCI
entity’s investigation of the SCI event. The Commission also notes that the purpose of the
electronic signature requirement on Form SCI is to ensure that the person submitting the form to
the Commission has been properly authorized by the SCI entity to submit the form on its
behalf. 1242 Therefore, the electronic signature requirement would not put SCI entity personnel at
risk if the SCI entity later determines that there were factual errors, omissions, or other flaws in
the initial filing. As such, the Commission does not agree with the comment that the electronic

1242

Additionally, similar to use of the EFFS in the context of electronic filing of Form 19b-4,
by using a digital ID for each duly authorized signatory providing an electronic signature,
both the Commission and an SCI entity may be assured of the authenticity and integrity
of the electronic filing of Form SCI. See infra Section V.D.2.e (noting the necessity of
completing a form to gain access to EFFS).

407

signature requirement was appropriate only if the final rule included a safe harbor for good faith
reporting of SCI events. 1243
Amendment to Facilitate Electronic Filing Requirements
In addition, to permit implementation of Rule 1006, 1244 the Commission is adopting an
amendment to Rule 24b-2 under the Exchange Act. 1245 Rule 24b-2 currently provides
confidential treatment requests and the confidential portion of an electronic filing may be
submitted in paper format only. 1246 The Commission is amending Rule 24b-2 by amending the
rule’s preliminary note, and paragraph (b) of the rule to clarify that under Rule 24b-2,
confidential treatment requests and the confidential portion of an electronic filing may be
submitted in paper format only, unless Rule 24b-2 provides otherwise. The Commission also is
adding a new paragraph (g) to Rule 24b-2 to provide an electronic means by which an SCI entity
may request confidential treatment of its filings on Form SCI. New paragraph (g) will provide
that an SCI entity’s electronic filings on Form SCI pursuant to Regulation SCI must include any
information with respect to which confidential treatment is requested (“confidential portion”),
and provide that, in lieu of the procedures described in Rule 24b-2b, an SCI entity may request
confidential treatment of all information submitted on Form SCI by completing Section IV of
Form SCI. The Commission’s amendment provides an exception from Rule 24b-2’s paper-only
request for confidential treatment for all Form SCI filings, and specifically permits an SCI entity
to electronically request confidential treatment of all information filed on Form SCI in
1243

The same rationale also applies to the requirement for manual signature in Rule 1006.

1244

See Rule 1006, 17 CFR 242.1006; see also General Instruction E to Form SCI (requiring
Form SCI and exhibits to be filed electronically under Rule 1006).

1245

17 CFR 240.24b-2.

1246

See 17 CFR 240.24b-2.

408

accordance with Regulation SCI. The Commission believes that allowing for electronic
submission of confidential treatment requests will reduce the burden on SCI entities by not
requiring a separate paper submission, and provided the confidential treatment request is
properly made, will expedite Commission review of the requests for confidential treatment, as all
information submitted on Form SCI will be deemed to be the subject of the request for
confidential treatment.
If such a confidential treatment request is properly made, the Commission will keep the
information collected pursuant to Form SCI confidential to the extent permitted by law. 1247
3.

Access to the Systems of an SCI Entity

Proposed Rule 1000(f) would have required each SCI entity to provide Commission
representatives reasonable access to its SCI systems and SCI security systems to assess the SCI
entity’s compliance with Regulation SCI. 1248 In the SCI Proposal, the Commission noted that
the proposed rule would facilitate the access of representatives of the Commission to such
systems of an SCI entity either remotely or on site, noting, for example, that with such access,
Commission representatives could test an SCI entity’s firewalls and vulnerability to
intrusions. 1249 Further, the Commission noted that the proposed rule was intended to be

1247

The Freedom of Information Act (“FOIA”) provides at least two pertinent exemptions
under which the Commission has authority to withhold certain information. FOIA
Exemption 4 provides an exemption for “trade secrets and commercial or financial
information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential.” 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4).
FOIA Exemption 8 provides an exemption for matters that are “contained in or related to
examination, operating, or condition reports prepared by, on behalf of, or for the use of
an agency responsible for the regulation or supervision of financial institutions.” 5
U.S.C. 552(b)(8).

1248

See proposed Rule 1000(f) and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section III.D.3.

1249

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18130.

409

consistent with the Commission’s current authority with respect to access to records generally 1250
and could help ensure that Commission representatives have ready access to the SCI systems and
SCI security systems of SCI entities in order to evaluate an SCI entity’s practices with regard to
the requirements of Regulation SCI. 1251 As discussed below, the Commission has determined
not to adopt the proposed requirement because it believes it can achieve the goal of the proposed
rule through its existing recordkeeping requirements and examination authority, as well as
through the new recordkeeping requirement in Rule 1005 of Regulation SCI.
Many commenters criticized the SCI Proposal’s discussion of the proposed access
requirement as permitting unfettered access by third parties that could pose significant security
risks to an SCI entity’s systems. 1252 Potential issues identified by commenters included
unauthorized access to confidential information, 1253 risk and damage to systems, 1254 and
contractual issues with third party vendors. 1255 One commenter stated that the Commission
should bear in mind that access to such highly sensitive environments of SCI entities carries a
duty of care commensurate with the sensitivity of the access and information involved. 1256

1250

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18130 (citing Section 17(b) of the Exchange
Act, as well as Sections 11A, 6(b)(1), 15A(b)(2), and 17A(b)(3)(A) of the Exchange Act).

1251

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18130.

1252

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 34; BATS Letter at 15; ISE Letter at 10; MSRB Letter at 25-26;
Omgeo Letter at 28-29; SIFMA Letter at 18-19; FIF Letter at 7; Fidelity Letter at 5-6;
LiquidPoint Letter at 4; ITG Letter at 16; KCG Letter at 20-21; Joint SROs Letter at 1718; OCC Letter at 20; UBS Letter at 5; Tellefsen Letter at 10; and FINRA Letter at 41.

1253

See, e.g., FINRA Letter at 41; and Omgeo Letter at 29.

1254

See, e.g., Omgeo Letter at 29; and ITG Letter at 16.

1255

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter at 19.

1256

See OCC Letter at 20.

410

While several commenters advocated for the elimination of the proposed access
provision, 1257 some commenters recommended ways to refine the proposed requirement while
still achieving its goals. 1258 These suggestions included: limiting the category of Commission
staff to whom access could be provided; 1259 providing the Commission with access to
“configuration and information flows of the system, instead of direct access;” 1260 providing the
Commission with reports and metrics on systems vulnerabilities rather than direct access; 1261
requiring only that SCI entities demonstrate for Commission staff their controls and safeguards
and compliance with the rule; 1262 mandating training of Commission staff and supervision of
Commission staff access by SCI entity personnel; 1263 and requiring that an SCI entity’s staff
conduct any tests while Commission staff observed, rather than providing Commission staff with
direct access. 1264 One commenter also noted that the concept of reasonable access was
vague. 1265 Other commenters asked that the Commission more clearly prescribe what would
constitute “reasonable access.” 1266 One commenter also recommended that SCI entities provide

1257

See, e.g., ITG Letter at 16; and CME Letter at 11.

1258

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 34; OCC Letter at 20; ISE Letter at 10; DTCC Letter at 14;
CME Letter at 11; Omgeo Letter at 29; Joint SROs Letter at 18; and MSRB Letter at 26.

1259

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 34.

1260

See NYSE Letter at 34.

1261

See, e.g., ISE Letter at 10; DTCC Letter at 14; OCC Letter at 20; and CME Letter at 11.

1262

See, e.g., Omgeo Letter at 28-29; and DTCC Letter at 14.

1263

See MSRB Letter at 26.

1264

See OCC Letter at 20.

1265

See, e.g., ITG Letter at 16.

1266

See, e.g., MSRB Letter at 26; Joint SROs Letter at 18; and FINRA Letter at 41.

411

an individual contact for a designated Commission representative to communicate and meet with
regarding an SCI entity’s systems. 1267
A few commenters also questioned whether the proposed access requirement is
authorized by Section 17(b) or Section 11A of the Exchange Act, as stated in the SCI
Proposal. 1268 Other commenters considered the proposed access requirement unnecessary and
questioned the Commission’s justification for needing this authority. 1269 Another commenter
pointed out that this type of access is authorized by other sections of the Exchange Act and an
additional provision in Regulation SCI is redundant. 1270
After consideration of the views of commenters, the Commission has determined not to
adopt the proposed reasonable access provision because it believes it can achieve its goals
through existing recordkeeping requirements and its examination authority, as well as through
the new recordkeeping requirement in Rule 1005 of Regulation SCI. As discussed in the SCI
Proposal, the reasonable access provision was designed to help ensure that the Commission was
able to evaluate an SCI entity’s practices with regard to the requirements of proposed Regulation
SCI. 1271 The Commission believes that it can adequately assess an SCI entity’s compliance with
Regulation SCI through its authority provided by existing provisions of the Exchange Act and
rules thereunder, as well as through the additional recordkeeping provisions being adopted today
in Rule 1005 of Regulation SCI, as described above. In this regard, as discussed above, Section

1267

See SIFMA Letter at 19.

1268

See NYSE Letter at 34; BATS Letter at 15; and CME Letter at 11.

1269

See FINRA Letter at 41; BATS Letter at 15; Omgeo Letter at 28-29; and Fidelity Letter
at 5.

1270

See Angel Letter at 18.

1271

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18130.

412

17(a) of the Exchange Act provides the Commission with the authority to adopt recordkeeping
rules, and the breadth of Rule 17a-1 thereunder is such that it would require SCI SROs to make,
keep, and preserve records relating to their compliance with Regulation SCI, including records
produced by SCI systems and indirect SCI systems. 1272 Further, adopted Rule 1005 specifically
imposes requirements on each SCI entity (other than SCI SROs) to, among other things: make,
keep, and preserve at least one copy of all documents relating to its compliance with Regulation
SCI; keep all such documents for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in a
place that is readily accessible to the Commission or its representatives for inspection and
examination; and upon request of any representative of the Commission, promptly furnish to the
possession of such representative copies of any documents required to be kept and preserved by
it pursuant to Rules 1005(b)(1) and (2). 1273 The Commission also notes that Section 17(b) of the
Exchange Act authorizes the Commission to conduct reasonable periodic, special, or other
examinations of all records maintained by the entities described in Section 17(a). 1274 These
examinations can be conducted “at any time, or from time to time,” as the Commission “deems
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or otherwise in
furtherance of the purposes of [the Exchange Act].” 1275

1272

See supra note 1251 and accompanying text.

1273

See supra Section IV.C.1 (discussing recordkeeping requirements of adopted Rule 1005).
As noted above, the recordkeeping requirements also extend to records of third
parties. Specifically, an SCI entity is responsible for producing to Commission
representatives records required to be made, kept, and preserved under Regulation SCI,
even if those records are maintained by third parties, and the SCI entity is responsible for
ensuring that such third parties produce those requested documents, upon examination or
other request. See id.

1274

See Section 17(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78q(b).

1275

Id.

413

Taken together, the Commission believes that these provisions afford the Commission the
authority and ability to assess SCI entities’ compliance with the requirements of Regulation SCI,
rendering the adoption of a reasonable access provision unnecessary. Pursuant to this authority,
in some circumstances, the Commission’s assessment of an SCI entity’s compliance may require
appropriate access to certain SCI systems in coordination with the relevant SCI entity. In
particular, the Commission’s ability to assess the accuracy and completeness of an SCI entity’s
records with regard to Regulation SCI, including the written policies and procedures established
and maintained pursuant to Rule 1001 and the report of the SCI review prepared in accordance
with Rule 1003(b), and to evaluate whether SCI entities are otherwise complying with
Regulation SCI, may necessitate the observation of SCI systems and indirect SCI systems by
Commission representatives. 1276
The Commission believes that such access would not require an SCI entity to agree to
remote or direct access by Commission personnel to an SCI entity’s systems, such as by
permitting Commission staff to run tests or use system scanning tools on its SCI systems or
indirect SCI systems. Rather, as suggested by some commenters, access would entail allowing
Commission staff to observe the SCI entity’s SCI systems and indirect SCI systems with
appropriate safeguards, including through systems demonstrations for Commission staff
performed by the SCI entity and running tests on an SCI system with Commission staff onsite to

1276

The Commission notes that, under the ARP Inspection Program, such access has been
routinely requested by Commission staff and provided by ARP entities.

414

observe. 1277 The Commission believes that such access does not raise the potential security risks
posed by unrestricted third party access to SCI systems. 1278
D.

Form SCI

Pursuant to proposed Rule 1000(d), subject to certain exceptions, notices, reports, and
other information required to be provided to the Commission under Regulation SCI would have
been required to be submitted electronically through the EFFS on proposed Form SCI. 1279
Proposed Form SCI included detailed instructions regarding the specific information that SCI
entities would have been required to submit to the Commission. After careful consideration of
comments, the Commission is adopting Form SCI with certain modifications, as further
discussed below. These modifications to proposed Form SCI correspond to the changes to the
Commission notification and reporting requirements as adopted, each of which is discussed in
greater detail above. 1280
Adopted Rule 1006 provides that, except with respect to notifications to the Commission
made pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(1) or updates to the Commission made pursuant to Rule
1002(b)(3), all notifications, reviews, descriptions, analyses, or reports to the Commission
required to be submitted under Regulation SCI must be filed electronically on Form SCI. Form

1277

See supra notes 1262 and 1264 and accompanying text.

1278

The Commission believes that the elimination of the proposed reasonable access
provision addresses the other comments on this provision.

1279

Proposed Rule 1000(d) provided exceptions for notifications under proposed Rule
1000(b)(4)(i) and oral notifications pursuant to proposed Rule 1000(b)(6)(ii).

1280

See supra Sections IV.B.3.c, IV.B.4, and IV.B.5 (discussing the reporting requirements of
the adopted regulation). See also supra Section IV.B.6 (discussing the business
continuity and disaster recovery plans testing requirement for SCI entity members or
participants, and elimination of the proposed Commission notification requirement
related to member or participation designations).

415

SCI solicits information through a series of questions designed to elicit short-form answers, but
also requires SCI entities to provide information and/or reports in narrative form by attaching
specified exhibits. All filings on Form SCI require that an SCI entity identify itself and indicate
the basis for submitting the form. Specifically, an SCI entity would indicate on the form the
specific type of submission it is making: a notification regarding an SCI event pursuant to Rule
1002(b)(2); a final report or interim status report regarding an SCI event pursuant to Rule
1002(b)(4); a quarterly report on de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems
intrusions pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(5)(ii); a quarterly report of material systems changes
pursuant to Rule 1003(a)(1); a supplemental report of material system changes pursuant to Rule
1003(a)(2); or a submission of the report of an SCI review, together with any response by senior
management, pursuant to Rule 1003(b)(3). In addition, Form SCI permits, but does not require,
SCI entities to utilize the form to submit initial notifications of SCI events pursuant to Rule
1002(b)(1), as well as updates regarding SCI events pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(3). Moreover, if
an SCI entity decides to withdraw a previously submitted Form SCI, it would complete page 1 of
Form SCI and select the appropriate check box to indicate the withdrawal. A filing on Form SCI
also requires that an SCI entity provide additional information on attached exhibits, as discussed
below. Because Form SCI is a report that is required to be filed under the Exchange Act and
Regulation SCI, it is unlawful for any person to willfully or knowingly make, or cause to be
made, a false or misleading statement with respect to any material fact in Form SCI. 1281
Several commenters addressed the information required by Form SCI as well as the
submission process for the form. One commenter asked a number of questions on how the
submission process would work in practice, including: (i) whether the form would be rejected by
1281

See, e.g., Section 32(a) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a).

416

the Commission if information was missing; (ii) whether the Commission would deem it a
failure to comply with Regulation SCI if a Form SCI is rejected for incompleteness and the SCI
entity is unable to resubmit within the applicable reporting time frame; (iii) how SCI entities
would update or correct information previously submitted on Form SCI; (iv) will the EFFS
system be available for Form SCI submissions during non-business hours and whether there is an
alternative means to submit notifications if the EFFS system is down or unavailable; (v) who at
the Commission would be reviewing submissions and whether they would be familiar with
technical jargon; and (vi) whether the SCI entities will be expected to attach documentation
supporting the descriptions provided in the exhibits. 1282 The commenter also expressed several
concerns, including: (i) the amount of time it would take SCI entities to master the new
submission process for proposed Form SCI and suggested a delayed implementation or transition
period; (ii) that the form could encourage SCI entities to guess where they are missing
information if a form could be rejected for incomplete information; (iii) that a submission that
needs to be updated or corrected would not be considered timely filed; (iv) that the updating
procedure could become burdensome if the SCI entity needed to explain the reason for any
changes to information previously provided; and (v) that submissions would be more
burdensome if technical notifications and reports needed to be translated into plain English. 1283
Another commenter requested that the electronic filing system that the Commission puts in place
to receive Form SCI submissions be made available on weekends and outside normal business

1282

See FINRA Letter at 28-30.

1283

See id.

417

hours. 1284 This commenter also suggested that the Commission remain open to changes to Form
SCI as it and SCI entities gain experience with the use of Form SCI and that the Commission
should work with SCI entities to test the electronic submission system to ensure its operational
capability. 1285
The Commission has considered these comments and has addressed many of the issues
raised by commenters by revising the substantive requirements of adopted Rules 1002 and 1003,
as well as making certain changes to the adopted form. With respect to a commenter’s question
regarding whether a Form SCI would be rejected if information was missing, 1286 as stated in the
General Instructions for Form SCI, an SCI entity must provide all information required by the
form, including the exhibits. The General Instructions for Form SCI also state that a filing that is
incomplete or similarly deficient may be returned to the SCI entity, and any filing so returned
will be deemed not to have been filed with the Commission.1287 In response to the commenter
who expressed concern that a submission that needed to be updated or corrected would not be
considered timely filed, the Commission notes that an SCI entity is responsible for submitting a
complete and correct Form SCI within the time period specified in the relevant provisions under

1284

See MSRB Letter at 19, 25. See also FINRA Letter at 29 (questioning whether the EFFS
system would be available during non-business hours for Form SCI submissions).

1285

See MSRB Letter at 25-26.

1286

See supra note 1282 and accompanying text.

1287

While the Commission has the ability to reject a Form SCI filing, the Commission notes
that the Form SCI submission process is different from the Form 19b-4 filing process.
Specifically, SCI entities file Form SCI to provide notification to the Commission
regarding SCI events and material systems changes, and reports of SCI reviews. On the
other hand, SROs file Form 19b-4 for immediately effective rule changes or to seek
Commission approval of rule changes. Therefore, the process for rejecting a Form 19b-4
filing does not apply to Form SCI submissions.

418

Regulation SCI. 1288 At the same time, the Commission notes that, while the SCI event
notification under Rule 1002(b)(2) is required to be provided within 24 hours of any responsible
SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event occurred, information for
such notifications is only required to be provided on a good faith, best efforts basis. For other
types of notifications and reports required to be submitted on Form SCI, SCI entities have more
time to prepare such submission, and to ensure that the information provided is complete and
correct.
With respect to a commenter’s question regarding how SCI entities would update or
correct information previously submitted on Form SCI, the Commission notes that the rules
under Regulation SCI already provide for updates for many of the Form SCI submissions.
Specifically, Rule 1002(b)(2) requires certain information to be submitted on a good faith, best
efforts basis within 24 hours of any responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to
conclude that an SCI event has occurred. Rule 1002(b)(3) requires SCI entities to provide
updates regarding SCI events until the SCI event is resolved and the SCI entity’s investigation of
the SCI event is closed. 1289 As such, SCI entities may use the updates under Rule 1002(b)(3) to
correct or update previously submitted information. Also, Rule 1003(a)(2) requires SCI entities

1288

With respect to a commenter’s concern that SCI entities may have to guess where
information is missing if a form could be rejected for incomplete information, the
Commission intends there to be communication between Commission staff and SCI
entity personnel in instances where a Form SCI is rejected to discuss the information
missing in the submission and anything else necessary to comply with the form
requirements. See supra note 1283 and accompanying text.

1289

As discussed in detail in Section IV.B.3.c above, Rule 1002(b)(3) allows SCI entities to
discuss the update with Commission staff orally, rather than by completing the form,
although an SCI entity may use Form SCI if it chooses to do so. To the extent an SCI
entity chooses to utilize the form for such updates, the written updates can facilitate the
Commission’s tracking and assessment of SCI events.

419

to submit supplemental reports to notify the Commission of any material error in or material
omission from a previously submitted material systems change report.
With respect to the Form SCI submissions where the rules do not specifically provide for
updates (i.e., SCI event notifications under Rule 1002(b)(4), quarterly SCI event notifications
under Rule 1002(b)(5), report of SCI reviews under Rule 1003(b)(3)), if an SCI entity discovers
that a previously submitted Form SCI must be corrected or updated, the SCI entity should
contact Commission staff as it corrects or updates the prior submission. In addition, an SCI
entity will be able to withdraw and re-submit a previously submitted Form SCI. 1290 However, as
noted above, an SCI entity is responsible for submitting a complete and correct Form SCI within
the time period specified in the relevant provisions under Regulation SCI. 1291
In addition, in response to comments, 1292 the Commission notes that Form SCI does not
require SCI entities to attach documentation supporting the descriptions in the exhibits, although
SCI entities will be able to do so if they so choose by attaching the documentation as part of the
relevant exhibit. Moreover, in response to the commenter who asked who at the Commission
would be reviewing submissions and whether they would be familiar with technical jargon, the
Commission notes that appropriate Commission staff from different offices or divisions with the

1290

See General Instructions to Form SCI, Item F.

1291

As noted above, one commenter expressed concern that an updating procedure could
become burdensome if the SCI entity needs to explain the reason for any changes to
information previously provided. See supra note 1283 and accompanying text. The
Commission notes that, with respect to rules under Regulation SCI that require updates,
those rules specify the information that is required to be contained in an update, and do
not require an explanation of the reason for the update. With respect to the Form SCI
submissions where the rules do not specifically provide for updates, as noted above, the
SCI entity can contact Commission staff as the SCI entity corrects or updates the prior
submission.

1292

See supra notes 1282-1283 and accompanying text.

420

necessary expertise to understand the Form SCI submission will review it depending on the
nature of the submission (i.e., legal or technical), and thus, it is not necessary for SCI entities to
translate technical jargon into plain English.
In response to the commenter who expressed concern as to the amount of time it would
take SCI entities to master the Form SCI submission process and suggested delayed
implementation, the Commission believes that, by utilizing the EFFS system currently used by
many SROs for Rule 19b-4 and Rule 19b-7 filings, it will allow for a quicker and smoother
implementation of the Form SCI submission process for certain SCI entities, and allow the
Commission to apply its experience with EFFS to facilitate the submissions of notifications and
reports required by Regulation SCI. Nevertheless, the Commission notes that it is delaying the
date for compliance with Regulation SCI, as discussed in Section IV.F below. The Commission
does not expect that the Form SCI submission process will require substantial time for SCI
entities to master and the delayed date for compliance with Regulation SCI provides SCI entities
with more time to learn and adopt it.
With respect to commenters’ question regarding whether the EFFS system will be
available during non-business hours and whether there is an alternative means to submit
notifications if the EFFS system is down or unavailable, 1293 the Commission notes that, as is the
case with Rule 19b-4 and Rule 19b-7 filings, EFFS is available 24 hours a day. If EFFS
becomes unavailable for a period of time, the Commission recognizes that SCI entities will not
be able to submit any required notifications during that time period, and the Commission would
expect the SCI entities to file any required notifications promptly once it becomes available. In
response to the commenter who suggested that the Commission remain open to changes to Form
1293

See supra notes 1282, 1284 and accompanying text.

421

SCI and that the Commission work with SCI entities to test the electronic submission system to
ensure its operational capability, the Commission expects, as it has done with the SRO rule filing
process, to periodically evaluate the effectiveness of the submission process for Form SCI, as
well as the form itself, and may consider improvements in the future as appropriate. 1294 The
Commission also notes that it expects, prior to the compliance date, that its staff will provide
materials to SCI entities regarding the operation of the electronic filing system to submit Forms
SCI. Furthermore, the Commission will perform internal testing to help ensure the operational
capability of EFFS prior to the compliance date.
1.

Notice of SCI Events Pursuant to Rule 1002(b)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(4) would have required each SCI entity to submit certain
information regarding SCI events to the Commission using proposed Form SCI. 1295 The
Commission is adopting proposed Rule 1000(b)(4) as Rule 1002(b) with certain modifications,
which are discussed above in Section IV.B.3.c.
With respect to Commission notifications under Rule 1002, adopted Form SCI requires
an SCI entity to provide the following information in a short, standardized format: (i) whether
the Commission has previously been notified of the SCI event pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(1); (ii)
the type of submission (i.e., an initial notification pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(1), a notification
pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(2), an update pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(3), a final report pursuant to
Rule 1002(b)(4), or an interim status report pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(4)); (iii) the type(s) of SCI

1294

See supra note 1285 and accompanying text.

1295

Proposed Rule 1000(d) provided an exception for notifications under proposed Rule
1000(b)(4)(i).

422

event (i.e., systems compliance issue, systems disruption, or systems intrusion); 1296 (iv) the
date/time the SCI event occurred; (v) the duration of the SCI event; (vi) when responsible SCI
personnel had a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event occurred; (vii) whether the SCI
event has been resolved and, if so, the date/time of resolution; (viii) whether the SCI entity’s
investigation of the SCI event is closed and, if so, the date of closure; (ix) the estimated number
of market participants potentially impacted by the SCI event; (x) whether the SCI event is a
major SCI event; (xi) the types of systems impacted (i.e., trading, clearance and settlement, order
routing, market data, market regulation, market surveillance, or indirect SCI systems) and the
name of such system(s); and (xii) whether any critical SCI system(s) are impacted by the SCI
event and, if so, the types of such critical SCI systems (i.e., systems that directly support
functionality relating to: clearance and settlement systems of clearing agencies; openings,
reopenings, and closings on the primary listing market; trading halts; initial public offerings; the
provision of consolidated market data; exclusively listed securities; or systems that provide
functionality to the securities markets for which the availability of alternatives is significantly
limited or nonexistent and without which there would be a material impact on fair and orderly
markets) and a description of such systems.
If an SCI entity chooses to utilize Form SCI to submit an initial notification required by
Rule 1002(b)(1), an SCI entity will be able to submit a short description of the SCI event, and be
allowed to attach documents regarding such SCI event as part of Exhibit 6 of Form SCI if the
SCI entity chooses to do so.

1296

Some SCI events may meet the definition of more than a single SCI event type, and the
form permits SCI entities to check one, two, or all three SCI event types.

423

For a notification required by Rule 1002(b)(2), in addition to providing the applicable
standardized information on Form SCI as discussed above, an SCI entity is required to submit an
Exhibit 1. An SCI entity is required to provide the following information on a good faith, best
efforts basis in the Exhibit 1: (i) a description of the SCI event, including the system(s) affected;
and (ii) to the extent available as of the time of notification, the SCI entity’s current assessment
of the types and number of market participants potentially affected by the SCI event; the
potential impact of the SCI event on the market; a description of the steps the SCI entity has
taken, is taking, or plans to take, with respect to the SCI event; the time the SCI event was
resolved or timeframe within which the SCI event is expected to be resolved; and any other
pertinent information known by the SCI entity about the SCI event.
If an SCI entity chooses to utilize Form SCI to submit an update required by Rule
1002(b)(3), an SCI entity will be able to submit a short description of the update, and be allowed
to attach documents regarding such update as part of Exhibit 6 of Form SCI if the SCI entity
chooses to do so.
For a submission required by Rule 1002(b)(4), in addition to providing the applicable
standardized information on Form SCI as discussed above, adopted Form SCI also requires an
SCI entity to indicate if it is a final report or an interim status report and submit an Exhibit 2. If
an SCI event is resolved and the SCI entity’s investigation of the SCI event is closed within 30
calendar days of the occurrence of the SCI event, an SCI entity must file a final report under
Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(A) within five business days after the resolution of the SCI event and closure
of the investigation regarding the SCI event. However, if an SCI event is not resolved or the SCI
entity’s investigation of the SCI event is not closed within 30 calendar days of the occurrence of
the SCI event, an SCI entity must file an interim status report under Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(B)(1)

424

within 30 calendar days after the occurrence of the SCI event. For SCI events in which an
interim status report is required to be filed, an SCI entity must file a final report under Rule
1002(b)(4)(i)(B)(2) within five business days after the resolution of the SCI event and closure of
the investigation regarding the SCI event. For any submission required by Rule 1002(b)(4), an
SCI entity is required to provide the following information in the Exhibit 2: (i) a detailed
description of: the SCI entity’s assessment of the types and number of market participants
affected by the SCI event; the SCI entity’s assessment of the impact of the SCI event on the
market; the steps the SCI entity has taken, is taking, or plans to take, with respect to the SCI
event; the time the SCI event was resolved; the SCI entity’s rule(s) and/or governing
document(s), as applicable, that relate to the SCI event; and any other pertinent information
known by the SCI entity about the SCI event; (ii) a copy of any information disseminated
pursuant to Rule 1002(c) by the SCI entity to date regarding the SCI event to any of its members
or participants; and (iii) an analysis of parties that may have experienced a loss, whether
monetary or otherwise, due to the SCI event, the number of such parties, and an estimate of the
aggregate amount of such loss. As noted above, if an SCI entity submits an interim written
notification under Rule 1000(b)(4)(i)(B), the SCI entity is required to provide the information
specified in Exhibit 2, but only to the extent known at the time. The SCI entity is also required
to subsequently submit a final report under Rule 1000(b)(4)(i)(B) and provide all the information
specified in Exhibit 2.
Rule 1002(b)(5) states that the Commission notification requirements under Rules
1002(b)(1)-(4) do not apply to any SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates
would have, no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants.
Rule 1002(b)(5)(i) instead requires that an SCI entity make, keep, and preserve records relating

425

to all such SCI events and Rule 1002(b)(5)(ii) requires an SCI entity to submit to the
Commission quarterly reports containing a summary description of such de minimis systems
disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions. For a quarterly report required by Rule
1002(b)(5), an SCI entity is required to indicate the end date of the applicable calendar quarter
for which the report is being submitted. The SCI entity is also required to submit an Exhibit 3,
containing a summary description of such de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis
systems intrusions, including the SCI systems and, for systems intrusions, the indirect SCI
systems, affected by such de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions
during the applicable calendar quarter.
2.

Notices of Material Systems Changes Pursuant to Rule 1003(a)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(6) would have required an SCI entity to provide advance
Commission notifications of material systems changes. Proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(ii) would
have required an SCI entity to submit to the Commission semi-annual reports on material
systems changes. As discussed in detail in Section IV.B.4 above, many commenters were
critical of the proposed reporting framework with respect to material systems changes, including
the 30-day advance notification procedure. After considering the views of commenters, the
Commission is not adopting the 30-day advance notification requirement or the semi-annual
reporting requirement for material systems changes. Rather, an SCI entity is required to submit
quarterly reports for material systems changes under Rule 1003(a)(1). An SCI entity is also
required under Rule 1003(a)(2) to promptly submit a supplemental report notifying the
Commission of a material error in or material omission from a report previously submitted under
Rule 1003(a).

426

One commenter raised a concern that an advance notification could be rejected by the
Commission for inadequate description and result in a delay to a planned systems change. 1297 As
noted above in Section IV.B.4, the Commission is adopting a quarterly reporting system that
does not require the advanced notification of individual planned material systems changes
required by proposed Rule 1000(b)(6). The adopted framework is intended to keep the
Commission and its staff apprised of systems changes at SCI entities while reducing the burdens
related to notifying the Commission of such changes and allowing for the various types of
development processes used by SCI entities (including agile development processes). Also, as
noted above in Section IV.B.4, Regulation SCI does not provide for a new review or approval
process for SCI entities’ material systems changes. As such, Commission staff will not use
material systems change reports to require any approval of prospective systems changes in
advance of their implementation pursuant to any provision of Regulation SCI, or to delay
implementation of material systems changes pursuant to any provision of Regulation SCI. 1298
For a notification required by Rule 1003(a) (including supplemental reports under Rule
1003(a)(2)), an SCI entity is required to indicate the end date of the applicable calendar quarter
for which the report is being submitted and submit an Exhibit 4. For a notification required by
Rule 1003(a)(1), Exhibit 4, is required to contain a description of completed, ongoing, and
planned material changes to its SCI systems and the security of its indirect SCI systems, during
the prior, current, and subsequent calendar quarters, including the dates or expected dates of
commencement and completion. For a notification required by Rule 1003(a)(2), Exhibit 4 is
1297

See SIFMA Letter at 16.

1298

At the same time, the Commission notes that the General Instructions for Form SCI state
that a filing that is incomplete or similarly deficient may be returned to the SCI entity,
and any filing so returned will be deemed not to have been filed with the Commission.

427

required to contain the supplemental report of a material error in or material omission from a
report previously submitted under Rule 1003(a)(1). 1299
3.

Reports of SCI Reviews Pursuant to 1003(b)

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(i) would have required an SCI entity to submit to the
Commission a report of the SCI review required by proposed Rule 1000(b)(7), together with any
response by senior management, within 60 calendar days after its submission to senior
management of the SCI entity. As discussed above in Section IV.B.5, the Commission is
adopting this Commission reporting requirement as proposed. There were no comments on
proposed Form SCI with respect to reports of SCI reviews.
For a notification required by Rule 1003(b), an SCI entity is required to indicate on Form
SCI the date of completion of the SCI review and the date of submission of the SCI review to the
SCI entity’s senior management. An SCI entity is also required to submit an Exhibit 5,
containing the report of the SCI review that was submitted to the SCI entity’s senior
management, along with any response to the report by senior management. 1300
4.

Notification of Member or Participant Designation Standards and
List of Designees

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) would have required an SCI entity to notify the Commission of
its members or participants that have been designated for business continuity and disaster
recovery plans testing, as well as the standards for such designation. Proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)

1299

See General Instructions to Form SCI, Item C.

1300

As discussed in Section IV.B.5, the SCI review would contain: (1) a risk assessment with
respect to SCI systems and indirect SCI systems of an SCI entity; and (2) an assessment
of internal control design and effectiveness of SCI systems and indirect SCI systems to
include logical and physical security controls, development processes, and information
technology governance, consistent with industry standards.

428

would have also required SCI entities to promptly update such notification after any changes to
its list of designees or standards for designation. As discussed above in Section IV.B.6, the
Commission is not adopting these Commission notification requirements.
5.

Other Information and Electronic Signature

Proposed Form SCI would have required an SCI entity to provide the Commission with
contact information for the systems personnel, regulatory personnel, and senior officer
responsible for addressing an SCI event, including the name, title, telephone number, and email
address of such persons. Proposed Form SCI would also have given the SCI entity an option to
provide contact information for an additional systems personnel and regulatory personnel.
Finally, proposed Form SCI would have required an electronic signature to help ensure the
authenticity of the Form SCI submission.
Adopted Form SCI more generally requires an SCI entity to provide contact information
for a person who is prepared to respond to questions for a particular submission. Form SCI
continues to require an electronic signature to help ensure the authenticity of the Form SCI
submission. The Commission believes that these requirements will expedite communications
between Commission staff and SCI entities, because they will help identify the person or persons
responsible for communicating with Commission staff about an SCI event even though one or
more other persons may be responsible for addressing and resolving the SCI event, and also help
ensure that only authorized personnel at each SCI entity submit filings required by adopted
Regulation SCI.
E.

Other Comments Received
1.

Applying Regulation SCI to Security-Based Swap Data Repositories
and Security-Based Swap Execution Facilities

429

As noted in the SCI Proposal, on July 21, 2010, the President signed the Dodd-Frank Act
into law. 1301 The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted, among other things, to promote the financial
stability of the United States by improving the accountability and transparency of the nation’s
financial system. 1302 Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act provides the Commission and the CFTC
with the authority to regulate over-the-counter derivatives.
In particular, as noted in the SCI Proposal, Section 763 of the Dodd-Frank Act amends
the Exchange Act by adding new statutory provisions to govern the regulation of various entities,
including security-based swap data repositories (“SB SDRs”) and security-based swap execution
facilities (“SB SEFs”). 1303 Under the authorities of Section 13(n) of the Exchange Act,
applicable to SB SDRs, and Section 3D(d) of the Exchange Act, applicable to SB SEFs, the
Commission proposed rules for these entities with regard to their automated systems’ capacity,
resiliency, and security. 1304 In the SB SDR Proposing Release and the SB SEF Proposing

1301

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Pub. L. 111-203,
H.R. 4173) (“Dodd-Frank Act”).

1302

See Dodd-Frank Act Preamble.

1303

See Dodd-Frank Act, Section 763 (adding Sections 13(n), 3C, and 3D of the Exchange
Act). The Dodd-Frank Act also directs the Commission to harmonize to the extent
possible Commission regulation of SB SDRs and SB SEFs with CFTC regulation of
swap data repositories (“SDRs”) and swap execution facilities (“SEFs”) under the
CFTC’s jurisdiction, an endeavor that Commission staff is undertaking as it seeks to
move the SB SDR and SB SEF proposals toward adoption. See Dodd-Frank Act, Section
712 (directing the Commission, before commencing any rulemaking with regard to SB
SDRs or SB SEFs, to consult and coordinate with the CFTC for purposes of assuring
regulatory consistency and comparability to the extent possible).

1304

See Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 63347 (November 19, 2010), 75 FR 77306
(December 10, 2010) (proposing new Rule 13n-6 under the Exchange Act applicable to
SB SDRs) (“SB SDR Proposing Release”); 63825 (February 2, 2011), 76 FR 10948
(February 28, 2011) (proposing new Rule 822 under the Exchange Act applicable to SB
SEFs) (“SB SEF Proposing Release”). See also Dodd-Frank Act, Section 761(a) (adding
Section 3(a)(75) of the Exchange Act) (defining the term “security-based swap data
repository”), and Section 761(a) (adding Section 3(a)(77) of the Exchange Act) (defining
430

Release, respectively, the Commission proposed Rule 13n-6 and Rule 822 under the Exchange
Act, which would set forth the requirements for these entities with regard to their automated
systems’ capacity, resiliency, and security. In each release, the Commission stated that it was
proposing standards comparable to the standards applicable to SROs, including exchanges and
clearing agencies, and other registrants, pursuant to the Commission’s ARP standards. 1305 The
SCI Proposal described in detail the SB SDR and SB SEF proposals relating to systems’
capacity, resiliency, and security; the comments received on those proposals; and the differences
between proposed Regulation SCI and those proposals. 1306
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission recognized that there could be differences between
Regulation SCI, as adopted, and Rules 13n-6 and 822, if adopted. Therefore, the Commission
sought comment on whether it should propose to apply the requirements of Regulation SCI, in
whole or in part, to SB SDRs and/or SB SEFs. 1307 In addition, the Commission sought comment
on what—if the Commission were to propose to apply some or all of the requirements of
Regulation SCI to SB SDRs or SB SEFs—would be the most appropriate way to implement such
requirements for SB SDRs and SB SEFs. 1308 However, the Commission also noted that, should

the term “security-based swap execution facility”).
1305

See SB SDR Proposing Release, supra note 1304, at 77332 and SB SEF Proposing
Release, supra note 1304, at 10987.

1306

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18133-34.

1307

See id. at 18134-37.

1308

See id. at 18137-38. As noted in the SCI Proposal, although the Commission has issued a
policy statement regarding the anticipated sequencing of the compliance dates of final
rules to be adopted by the Commission for certain provisions of Title VII of the DoddFrank Act, the precise timing for adoption of or compliance with any final rules relating
to SB SDRs or SB SEFs is not known at this time. See Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 67177 (June 11, 2012), 77 FR 35625 (June 14, 2012) (Statement of General Policy
on the Sequencing of the Compliance Dates for Final Rules Applicable to Security-Based
431

the Commission decide to propose to apply the requirements of Regulation SCI to SB SDRs or
SB SEFs, the Commission would issue a separate release discussing such a proposal. 1309
One commenter supported the inclusion of SB SEFs and possibly SB SDRs under
proposed Regulation SCI. 1310 Several commenters supported some form of harmonization, but
were cognizant of the practical differences between options and equities, on the one hand, and
derivatives, on the other. 1311
In the context of considering whether Regulation SCI should apply to SB SDRs or SB
SEFs, one commenter supported principles-based rules relating to systems compliance and
integrity, and generally believed that principles applicable to one type of system should be
applicable to all types of systems. 1312 This commenter noted that the Commission should not
promulgate principles-based rules that would apply different principles to different systems,
unless such difference is clearly warranted by the facts and circumstances relating to and the
purpose of a particular system. 1313 This commenter also commented that, because technology
continues to evolve at a rapid pace and because specific and technical rules may create
conflicting standards, any attempt to provide specific and technical rules should be avoided,
unless the context clearly warrants such specific and technical rules. 1314 This commenter

Swaps Adopted Pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Dodd-Frank
Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act).
1309

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18134.

1310

See Tellefsen Letter at 5.

1311

See DTCC Letter at 18-19; and NYC Bar Letter at 2-5. See also CoreOne Letter at 5-7.

1312

See NYC Bar Letter at 3.

1313

See id. at 3-4.

1314

See id. at 4.

432

concluded that the similarities between certain SCI entities and SB SDRs and SB SEFs do not
provide a clear justification for a different set of rules. 1315
One commenter noted that SB SDRs should have standards that are consistent with, but
not identical to, those of SCI entities. 1316 According to this commenter, the functions that SB
SDRs perform are significantly different from those performed by SCI entities. 1317 However,
this commenter supported applying to SB SDRs: proposed Rule 1000(b)(1)(i)(A)-(E); 1318
requirements relating to Commission notification of SCI events (by adopting the notification
provisions described in proposed Rule 13n-6(3)); and requirements for business continuity
planning and testing (but SB SDRs should not be required to test with other SB SDRs given the
structure of the proposed SB SDR Regulations). 1319 Finally, rather than making Regulation SCI
applicable to SB SDRs, this commenter recommended that these provisions be incorporated into
Rule 13n-6. 1320
The Commission appreciates the comments received on the potential application of
Regulation SCI to SB SDRs and SB SEFs. As noted above, should the Commission decide to
propose to apply the requirements of Regulation SCI to SB SDRs or SB SEFs, the Commission
1315

See id. This commenter also specifically noted that important market systems should not
have differing recovery requirements without a clear justification, particularly in light of
a Congressional mandate in the Dodd-Frank Act to ensure regulatory consistency and
comparability, to the extent possible. See NYC Bar Letter at 5.

1316

See DTCC Letter at 18.

1317

See id.

1318

However, this commenter noted that specific industry standards should be adopted for SB
SDRs, rather than adopting existing standards that were largely developed before
repositories were developed and were not intended to cover these types of entities. See
id.

1319

See id. at 18-19.

1320

See id. at 19.

433

would issue a separate release discussing such a proposal and would take these comments into
account.
2.

Applying Regulation SCI to Broker-Dealers Other than SCI ATSs
and Other Types of Entities

Regulation SCI, as proposed and as adopted, would apply to national securities
exchanges, registered securities associations, registered clearing agencies, the MSRB, SCI ATSs,
plan processors, and exempt clearing agencies subject to ARP. It would not apply to other types
of market participants, such as market makers or other broker-dealers. As noted in the SCI
Proposal, recent events have highlighted the significance of systems integrity of a broader set of
market participants than those included in the definition of SCI entity. 1321 Also, as noted in the
SCI Proposal, some broker-dealers have grown in size and importance to the market in recent
years. 1322 As such, the Commission recognized that systems disruptions, systems compliance
issues, and systems intrusions at broker-dealers could pose a significant risk to the market. 1323
The Commission also noted that Rule 15c3-5 under the Exchange Act, 1324 which requires
brokers or dealers with market access to implement risk management controls and supervisory
procedures to limit risk, already seeks to address certain risks posed to the markets by brokerdealer systems. 1325
The Commission did not propose to apply Regulation SCI to registered broker-dealers
(other than SCI ATSs) or to other types of entities not covered by the definition of SCI entity.

1321

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18138, n. 334.

1322

See id. at 18138, n. 335.

1323

See id. at 18138.

1324

17 CFR 240.15c3-5.

1325

See supra note 114 and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18138-39.

434

As noted in the SCI Proposal, if the Commission were to decide to propose to apply the
requirements of Regulation SCI to such entities, the Commission would issue a separate release
discussing such a proposal. 1326 Nevertheless, in the SCI Proposal, the Commission sought
comment on whether such entities should be subject to Regulation SCI in whole or in part. 1327
Some commenters stated that the Commission should expand the definition of SCI entity
to include broker-dealers. 1328 One commenter stated that the goals of Regulation SCI could not
be met without expanding the definition of SCI entity to include the following types of brokerdealers: exchange market maker, OTC market maker, and any other broker or dealer that
executes orders internally by trading as a principal or crossing orders as an agent. 1329 This
commenter stated that these entities should be included because they play a critical role in the
markets, handle market share that exceeds that of certain SCI ATSs, and, like exchanges and
ATSs, rely heavily on sophisticated automated systems. 1330 Another commenter also believed
that the objectives of Regulation SCI could more readily be achieved if the regulation also

1326

See id. at 18139.

1327

See id. at 18139-41.

1328

See NYSE Letter at 8-10; and Liquidnet Letter at 2-3. Another commenter expressed its
view that inclusion of order routing systems within the definition of “SCI systems” puts
SCI entities at a competitive disadvantage against broker-dealers that are not covered by
Regulation SCI. See BATS Letter at 4. See also supra notes 48-50, 94-96, and 152 and
accompanying text (discussing comments regarding broadening the coverage of “SCI
entity” and “SCI ATS” and the effect of the adopted ATS thresholds on barriers to entry),
and infra Section VI.C.1.c (discussing the effect of Regulation SCI on competition
between SCI entities and non-SCI entities).

1329

See NYSE Letter at 9.

1330

See id.

435

applied to market makers, high-frequency trading firms, and other broker-dealers because the
activities of these types of entities could present systemic risks to the market. 1331
In connection with questions in the SCI Proposal regarding the application of Regulation
SCI to broker-dealers other than SCI ATSs, one commenter urged the Commission to broaden
the definition of SCI entity to include any entity with direct electronic access to equity markets
because the equity markets can be disrupted by a single server. 1332 Another commenter stated
that all direct access proprietary trading market participants (including high frequency market
participants) should be included as SCI entities because of their significant footprint in the
markets, past incidents like Knight Capital Group’s massive trading losses from a systems
malfunction in August 2012, 1333 and flaws in the existing compliance controls and practices of
such firms. 1334 One commenter stated that Regulation SCI should be extended to any trading
platforms that transact significant volume, including systems that are not required to register as
an ATS, because all executions are against the bids and offers of a single dealer. 1335
A few commenters further argued that Rule 15c3-5 under the Exchange Act is not
sufficient by itself and therefore some broker-dealers should be treated as SCI entities. 1336 One
1331

See Liquidnet Letter at 2.

1332

See Lauer Letter at 3. See also supra notes 212-213 (explaining that the Commission
believes that many systems with direct market access are captured by the adopted
definition but the Commission is not expanding the scope of Regulation SCI to include
other broker-dealer entities and their systems at this time).

1333

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18090, n. 70 (discussing Knight’s systems
malfunction in August 2012).

1334

See Leuchtkafer Letter at 1-7. See supra notes 124-126 and accompanying text
(discussing the Commission’s determination to not apply Regulation SCI to non-ATS
broker-dealers at this time).

1335

See BlackRock Letter at 4.

1336

See Lauer Letter at 3 and NYSE Letter at 9.

436

of these commenters stated that non-ATS broker-dealers should be treated as SCI entities
because Rule 15c3-5, concerning the implementation of risk management and supervisory
controls to limit risk associated with routing orders to exchanges or ATSs, does not address
reliability or integrity of the systems that implement such controls. 1337
Many other commenters stated more generally that broker-dealers should not be captured
by the definition of SCI entity. 1338 Several commenters stated that they do not support the
expansion of Regulation SCI to all broker-dealers because broker-dealers generally perform
functions that do not have any systemic impact on the operation of the national market system
and are presently subject to numerous regulations that require the establishment of controls (such
as the Market Access Rule, Rule 17a-3, and Rule 17a-4), making Regulation SCI duplicative and
unduly burdensome. 1339
One commenter stated that broker-dealers are currently subject to high standards of
systems compliance and integrity by FINRA and state laws, and disciplinary actions for failure
to maintain sufficient protection of customer data and supervisory policies. 1340 Moreover, this
commenter noted that, if potential systems issues could be addressed by Regulation SCI as
applied to SCI entities, there would be no need to apply Regulation SCI to broker-dealers
conducting activities on behalf of retail clients. 1341 This commenter stated that additional

1337

See NYSE Letter at 9.

1338

See SIFMA Letter at 3; MFA Letter at 4-5; FIA PTG Letter at 5; FSI Letter at 3; WF
Letter at 2; Fidelity Letter at 4; KCG Letter at 14-17; LiquidPoint Letter at 4; and FSR
Letter at 2-3, n. 5.

1339

See SIFMA Letter at 3; MFA Letter at 4-5; FIA PTG Letter at 5; WF Letter at 2; KCG
Letter at 15-17; LiquidPoint Letter at 4; and FSR Letter at 2-3, n. 5.

1340

See FSI Letter at 3.

1341

See id.

437

regulation would only be warranted after a meticulous cost-benefit analysis and implementation
of the additional regulation at the lowest cost to firms and investors. 1342 This commenter
concluded that the inclusion of broker-dealers would raise investors’ costs and is
unnecessary. 1343
Another commenter believed that non-SCI ATS broker-dealers should not be included in
the definition of SCI entity because, despite the longstanding practice of retail brokers routing
their customers’ orders to market markers for execution, those market makers are not critical. 1344
Moreover, this commenter believed that FINRA’s rules with respect to broker-dealers are more
appropriate than the SCI Proposal, and FINRA rules hold broker-dealers accountable and do not
shield them from liability. 1345 This commenter stated that the combination of Commission and
FINRA rules on broker-dealers ensures that broker-dealers are sufficiently regulated, although
this commenter stated that FINRA could provide additional guidance on its rules in light of the
weaknesses revealed by Superstorm Sandy. 1346 Similarly, another commenter stated that brokerdealers should not be regulated under Regulation SCI because broker-dealer operational
regulation has been overseen almost entirely by FINRA. 1347 Specifically, FINRA member
broker-dealers are required to create and implement written supervisory procedures covering the
operation of their business. 1348 According to this commenter, this process allows broker-dealers

1342

See id.

1343

See id.

1344

See KCG Letter at 14.

1345

See id. at 14-15.

1346

See id. at 14-17.

1347

See OTC Markets Letter at 11.

1348

See id.

438

to devise procedures that keep them in-line with FINRA and Commission regulations, and allows
FINRA to focus on bigger picture issues impacting the broker-dealer industry. 1349
In addition, one commenter stated that the Commission should not propose a requirement
that SCI SROs require their members to institute policies and procedures similar to those
required under Regulation SCI. 1350 According to this commenter, SCI SROs already impose
regulatory requirements addressing similar concerns as those that Regulation SCI is designed to
address. 1351
One commenter stated that the term SCI entity should not encompass clearing brokerdealers or transfer agents because they are not involved in “real-time” trading activities and
therefore there would not be any material impact on critical market functions should their
systems fail. 1352 Additionally, this commenter stated that because Regulation SCI “is designed
to formalize the Commission’s existing ARP Program,” and clearing broker-dealers and transfer
agents do not participate in ARP, those entities should not be included within the scope of
Regulation SCI. 1353 Another commenter echoed these positions with respect to transfer agents,
and also stated that transfer agents should not be included within the definition of SCI entity
because the majority of transfer agents do not have electronic connectivity to SCI entities. 1354
Additionally, this commenter stated that larger transfer agents are already required to have
business continuity plans and written policies and procedures to ensure that their systems are
1349

See id.

1350

See WF Letter at 2.

1351

See id. at 2-3.

1352

See Fidelity Letter at 4.

1353

See id.

1354

See STA Letter at 2.

439

robust and will function as intended. 1355 In determining whether to expand the scope of SCI
entities, one commenter commented that the Commission should consider the role of an entity in
the securities markets and the risks presented by that entity, and stated that transfer agents should
not be covered because they raise fewer risks to the markets than the proposed SCI entities, as
their systems do not directly support the functions intended to be targeted by the SCI
Proposal. 1356 Another commenter similarly stated that transfer agents should not be covered
because there is little chance that a problem with a transfer agent’s operations would impact
market activity. 1357
The Commission appreciates the comments received on the potential application of
Regulation SCI to broker-dealers other than SCI ATSs and other types of entities. As noted
above, should the Commission decide to propose to apply the requirements of Regulation SCI to
these entities, the Commission would issue a separate release discussing such a proposal and
would take these comments into account.
F.

Effective Date and Compliance Dates

Several commenters provided recommendations for when the requirements of Regulation
SCI should go into effect and/or when SCI entities should be required to comply with the various
requirements of the regulation. 1358 Each commenter recommended allowing what they believed

1355

See id.

1356

See ICI Letter at 3.

1357

See Oppenheimer Letter at 2.

1358

See e.g., FINRA Letter at 41-42; DTCC Letter at 3; OCC Letter at 2; MSRB Letter at 3940; KCG Letter at 19; SIFMA Letter at 7; and OTC Markets Letter at 4, 22-23.

440

to be sufficient time for SCI entities to prepare for what they perceived as complex or substantial
regulatory responsibilities. 1359
Several commenters suggested that the implementation period should vary between those
entities and/or systems currently subject to the ARP Inspection Program and those that are
not. 1360 For example, one commenter suggested an implementation period of no less than two
years for SCI systems that are subject to the ARP Inspection Program and three years for all
other systems. 1361 Similarly, another commenter recommended that certain systems of non-ARP
participants should be provided at least an additional one year transition period, after a six-month
delayed effectiveness after final approval of Regulation SCI for SCI systems of current ARP
participants that are trading, clearance and settlement, and order routing systems. 1362 Another
commenter stated that systems currently covered by the ARP Inspection Program should be
granted two years to phase-in the rule and that non-ARP systems would need a phase-in period
of at least four years. 1363 One commenter also noted more generally that the time needed to meet
the new requirements of Regulation SCI will vary by the type of SCI entity and the level of its
current participation in the ARP Inspection Program. 1364

1359

See e.g., FINRA Letter at 41-42; DTCC Letter at 3; OCC Letter at 2; MSRB Letter at 3940; KCG Letter at 19; SIFMA Letter at 7; and OTC Markets Letter at 4, 22-23.

1360

See, e.g., FINRA Letter at 41-42; DTCC Letter at 3; and OTC Markets Letter at 4, 22-23.

1361

See FINRA Letter at 41-42.

1362

See MSRB Letter at 39-40.

1363

See OTC Markets Letter at 4, 22-23.

1364

See DTCC Letter at 3.

441

Some commenters requested a special phase-in period for ATSs. Specifically, two
commenters suggested that ATSs should be given six months after meeting the given threshold
in the definition of SCI ATS to come into compliance with Regulation SCI. 1365
Other commenters provided detailed suggestions for a phase-in compliance timeline for
the requirements of Regulation SCI. 1366 For example, one commenter suggested implementing
the rule in three phases so that it would apply: (1) after initial six-month delayed effectiveness,
to SCI systems of current ARP participants that are trading, clearance and settlement, and order
routing systems, and after one additional year, to such systems of non-ARP participants (for at
least one annual cycle); (2) to indirect SCI systems relating to the systems in phase one (for at
least one annual cycle); and (3) to SCI systems that are market data, regulation and surveillance
systems and related indirect SCI systems. 1367 Another commenter believed the rule should be
phased-in over four stages, where each SCI entity would: (1) review its SCI systems risk-based
assessment with Commission staff; (2) review and update its policies and procedures to
reasonably ensure compliance with Regulation SCI; (3) implement such policies and procedures;
and (4) conduct an annual review. 1368
Other commenters recommended individual compliance deadlines for certain
requirements of Regulation SCI. 1369 Specifically, two commenters suggested that phased-in
compliance should be permitted for proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) addressing testing of SCI entity

1365

See KCG Letter at 19; and SIFMA Letter at 7. See also adopted Rule 1000 (definition of
“SCI ATS”) and supra Section IV.A.1.b (discussing definition of “SCI ATS”).

1366

See MSRB Letter at 39-40; and OCC Letter at 2-3.

1367

See MSRB Letter at 40.

1368

See OCC Letter at 3.

1369

See OCC Letter at 2-3, 11, and 18; and SIFMA Letter at 18.

442

business continuity and disaster recovery plans by SCI entity members or participants. 1370
Specifically, one commenter believed that, if end-to-end business continuity and disaster
recovery plans testing were to be required, it should be phased-in to allow SCI entities to conduct
testing of specific SCI systems over time, rather than be required to conduct a full end-to-end
test, which it stated cannot be done within a reasonable timeframe. 1371 The other commenter
recommended a phased-in approach to implementation of broader BC/DR testing over a period
of years. 1372 One commenter recommended that the Commission institute an implementation
period for the Commission notification requirement under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4) to allow
SCI entities to prepare for what the commenter believed to be an increase in the number of
notifications that would be required. 1373 This commenter also noted generally that business
continuity and end-to-end testing requirements, 1374 the two-hour recovery time objective, 1375 and

1370

See adopted Rule 1004 and supra Section IV.B.6 (discussing business continuity and
disaster recovery plans testing requirements).

1371

See OCC Letter at 18.

1372

See SIFMA Letter at 18.

1373

See OCC Letter at 11; see also adopted Rule 1002(b) and supra Section IV.B.3.c
(discussing the Commission notification requirement for SCI events). One commenter
also expressed concern about SCI entities being able to effectively make submissions on
Form SCI upon Regulation SCI becoming effective, and urged Commission staff to work
with the SCI entities in the development, testing, and implementation of the Form SCI
electronic submission system, including provision of any systems requirements (e.g.,
supported browsers, required certificates, or authentication protocols). See MSRB Letter
at 25. Another commenter requested that the Commission provide SCI entities sufficient
time to learn the new Form SCI submission process, and recommended that the
Commission delay implementation of Form SCI until SCI entities and Commission staff
have gained experience with the Regulation SCI reporting requirements. See FINRA
Letter at 28. In the alternative, this commenter recommended that the Commission
provide a transition period for SCI entities to establish their processes for submission of
Form SCI. See FINRA Letter at 28.

1374

See adopted Rule 1004 and supra Section IV.B.6 (discussing business continuity and
disaster recovery plans testing requirements).

443

adopting the required policies and procedures may take longer to comply with than other
provisions of Regulation SCI. 1376
Regulation SCI will become effective 60 days after publication of the rules in the Federal
Register (“Effective Date”). As proposed, SCI entities would have been required to meet the
requirements of Regulation SCI on the Effective Date. However, after consideration of the
views of commenters, the Commission has determined to adopt a compliance date for Regulation
SCI of nine months after the Effective Date, except as described below with regard to: (1) ATSs
newly meeting the thresholds in the definition of “SCI ATS;” and (2) the industry- or sectorwide coordinated testing requirement, which will have different compliance periods. The
Commission believes that the importance of strengthening the technology infrastructure of key
market participants, the potential significant risks posed by systems issues to the U.S. securities
markets, and the significant number of recent systems issues at various trading venues,
necessitates as prompt an implementation of the requirements of Regulation SCI by SCI entities
as possible. At the same time, the Commission understands that SCI entities will need time to
prepare for the obligations imposed by Regulation SCI and, accordingly, believes that this ninemonth time frame provides SCI entities adequate time to meet the requirements of Regulation
SCI. While certain commenters suggested longer compliance periods or phased-in compliance
periods, the Commission understands that entities currently subject to the ARP Inspection
Program may already comply with certain requirements of Regulation SCI. In addition, the

1375

See adopted Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) and supra Section IV.B.1.b (discussing the policies and
procedures requirement and the two-hour recovery time objective).

1376

See OCC Letter at 2-3; see also adopted Rule 1001 and supra Sections IV.B.1-2
(discussing the policies and procedures requirement for operational capability and
systems compliance).

444

Commission also believes that SCI entities that have not previously participated in the ARP
Inspection Program may also currently operate in accordance with certain of the adopted
requirements. For example, the Commission believes that most SCI entities generally have in
place policies and procedures designed to ensure its systems’ capacity, integrity, resiliency,
availability, and security and that most SCI entities already take corrective actions in response to
systems issues.
Further, the Commission notes that, as described above, it has further focused the scope
of the requirements of Regulation SCI from the SCI Proposal and, thus, has lessened the
potential burdens on SCI entities. 1377 Therefore, the Commission believes that many of the
concerns expressed by commenters regarding the time that would be needed to prepare for the
responsibilities imposed by Regulation SCI have been significantly mitigated or addressed by
this overall refinement of the rules and obligations of SCI entities. For example, as discussed
above, the Commission has further focused the definition of “SCI systems” and clarified the
scope of “indirect SCI systems,” which will result in fewer systems being subject to the
requirements of Regulation SCI. 1378 In addition, the Commission notification provision will
require immediate Commission notice of fewer SCI events than as proposed as a result of the
refining of several definitions and the adoption of an exception from the immediate reporting

1377

See supra Section III (providing a summary of the key modifications from the SCI
Proposal) and Section IV (providing a detailed discussion of changes from the SCI
Proposal).

1378

See supra Sections IV.A.2.b and IV.A.2.d (discussing the definitions of “SCI systems”
and “indirect SCI systems”). The Commission notes that the refining of these definitions
also reduces the need to phase-in compliance based on type of system as suggested by
one commenter, because fewer systems overall will be subject to the regulation than
proposed and many systems for which the commenter urged a delay in compliance will
not be covered by the regulation, as adopted.

445

requirements for de minimis SCI events, which will instead be subject to recordkeeping
requirements and/or a quarterly reporting obligation, as applicable. 1379 Further, the Commission
has clarified that an SCI entity’s policies and procedures relating to the capacity, integrity,
resiliency, availability, and security of its SCI systems and indirect SCI systems can to be
tailored to a particular SCI system’s criticality and risk, contrary to the belief of some
commenters that the rule required all systems to be held to the same standards. 1380 The
Commission also notes that it expects, prior to the compliance date, that its staff will provide
information to SCI entities regarding the operation of the electronic filing system to submit
Forms SCI.
With regard to some commenters’ suggestions that there should be different compliance
periods for SCI entities currently subject to the ARP Inspection Program and those that do not
currently participate in the ARP Inspection Program (or phased-in compliance based, in part, on
this distinction), as noted above, the Commission believes that both categories of entities already
have some level of processes or procedures in place that are in compliance with the requirements
of Regulation SCI. Further, given the voluntary nature of the current ARP Inspection Program,
the Commission believes that the extent of current compliance with the requirements of adopted
Regulation SCI by entities subject to the ARP Inspection Program varies for different entities. In
addition, as noted above, Regulation SCI has a broader scope than the current ARP Inspection
Program and imposes mandatory requirements on entities subject to the rules, and accordingly
1379

See supra Section IV.B.3.c (discussing the Commission notification requirement). As
discussed above, SCI entities will be required to make, keep, and preserve records
relating to all de minimis SCI events and to report de minimis systems disruptions and de
minimis systems intrusions quarterly.

1380

See supra Section IV.B.1 (discussing the requirement for policies and procedures to
achieve capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security).

446

will require all SCI entities (both ARP entities and non-ARP entities) to take steps, including
implementing necessary systems changes, to meet the requirements of Regulation SCI. For these
reasons, the Commission believes that it is appropriate to provide all SCI entities nine months to
become compliant with the requirements of Regulation SCI.
With regard to two commenters’ suggestions that the Commission should adopt specific
phased-in compliance periods based on type of entity (i.e., ARP or non-ARP), type of system, or
other factors, the Commission believes that such an approach is not necessary for the reasons
stated above. Further, the Commission believes that having multiple phases of compliance
would create unnecessary complexity and raise practical difficulties for implementation.
At the same time, the Commission believes that it is appropriate to provide additional
compliance periods for limited aspects of Regulation SCI, as requested by some commenters.
Specifically, the Commission believes that ATSs meeting the volume thresholds in the definition
of “SCI ATS” for the first time should be provided an additional six months from the time that
the ATS first meets the applicable thresholds to comply with the requirements of Regulation
SCI. 1381 The Commission believes that this additional six-month period is appropriate and
necessary to allow an SCI ATS the time needed to take steps to meet the requirements of the
rules, rather than requiring compliance immediately upon meeting the volume thresholds. The
Commission also believes that this additional compliance period should give a new ATS entrant

1381

See supra note 1365 and accompanying text. See also supra Section IV.A.1.b (discussing
the definition of “SCI ATS,” including the applicable volume thresholds and the
inclusion of a six-month compliance period within the definition). For example, if a new
ATS begins operations in January 2016 and subsequently meets the volume thresholds in
the definition of “SCI ATS” for four out of the six months ending December 31, 2016, it
would have until June 30, 2017 to become compliant with the requirements of Regulation
SCI.

447

the opportunity to initiate and develop its business by allowing additional time before a new ATS
must incur the costs associated with compliance with Regulation SCI. 1382
The Commission is also adopting a longer compliance period with regard to the industryor sector-wide coordinated testing requirement in adopted Rule 1004(d). 1383 Specifically, SCI
entities will have 21 months from the Effective Date to coordinate the testing of an SCI entity’s
business continuity and disaster recovery plans on an industry- or sector-wide basis with other
SCI entities pursuant to adopted Rule 1004(d). Given that the compliance date for the other
requirements of Regulation SCI is nine months from the Effective Date, this will provide SCI
entities an additional year (12 months) beyond the compliance date for the other requirements of
Regulation SCI (for a total of 21 months) to comply with Rule 1004(d). The Commission
believes that this additional time period is appropriate in light of commenters’ concerns
regarding the complexity and logistical challenges posed by the requirement. 1384 The
Commission expects SCI entities to work cooperatively to address these logistical hurdles and to
carefully plan such testing, and believes that the additional time for compliance should help to
ensure that such testing is implemented effectively.
If any provision of Regulation SCI, or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or application
of such provisions to other persons or circumstances that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application.

1382

See supra note 152 and accompanying text.

1383

See supra Section IV.B.6.b.iv (discussing the coordinated testing requirement of adopted
Rule 1004(d)).

1384

See id.

448

V.

Paperwork Reduction Act
Certain rules under Regulation SCI impose new “collection of information” requirements

within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”). 1385 An agency may not
conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless
it displays a currently valid control number. In accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507 and 5 CFR
1320.11, the Commission submitted these collections of information to the Office of
Management and Budget (“OMB”) for review. The title for the collection of information
requirement is “Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity.” The collection of information
was assigned OMB Control No. 3235-0703.
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission solicited comments on the collection of information
burdens associated with Regulation SCI. In particular, the Commission asked whether
commenters agree with the Commission’s estimate of the number of respondents and the burden
associated with compliance with Regulation SCI. 1386 In addition, the Commission asked whether
SCI entities would outsource the work associated with compliance with Regulation SCI. 1387
Some commenters noted that the Commission underestimated the burdens that would be imposed
by proposed Regulation SCI. 1388 As discussed above, the Commission received 60 comment
letters on the proposal. Some of these comments relate directly or indirectly to the PRA. These
comments are addressed below.

1385

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

1386

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18155.

1387

See id. at 18154-55.

1388

See, e.g., Joint SRO Letter at 18-19; CME Letter at 4-5; OCC Letter at 11-12.

449

A.

Summary of Collection of Information

Regulation SCI includes four categories of obligations that require a collection of
information within the meaning of the PRA. Specifically, an SCI entity is required to: (1)
establish specified written policies and procedures, and mandate participation by designated
members or participants in certain testing of the SCI entity’s business continuity and disaster
recovery plans; (2) provide certain notifications, disseminate certain information, and create
reports; (3) take corrective actions, and identify critical SCI systems, major SCI events, de
minimis SCI events, and material systems changes; and (4) comply with recordkeeping
requirements.
1.

Requirements to Establish Written Policies and Procedures and
Mandate Participation in Certain Testing

Rule 1001 requires SCI entities to establish policies and procedures with respect to
various matters. Rule 1001(a) requires each SCI entity to establish, maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems and, for
purposes of security standards, indirect SCI systems, have levels of capacity, integrity,
resiliency, availability, and security, adequate to maintain the SCI entity’s operational capability
and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets. Rule 1001(a)(2) specifies that such
policies and procedures are required to include, at a minimum: (i) the establishment of
reasonable current and future technology infrastructure capacity planning estimates; (ii) periodic
capacity stress tests of such systems to determine their ability to process transactions in an
accurate, timely, and efficient manner; (iii) a program to review and keep current systems
development and testing methodology for such systems; (iv) regular reviews and testing, as
applicable, of such systems, including backup systems, to identify vulnerabilities pertaining to
internal and external threats, physical hazards, and natural or manmade disasters; (v) business
450

continuity and disaster recovery plans that include maintaining backup and recovery capabilities
sufficiently resilient and geographically diverse and that are reasonably designed to achieve next
business day resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of critical SCI systems following a
wide-scale disruption; (vi) standards that result in such systems being designed, developed,
tested, maintained, operated, and surveilled in a manner that facilitates the successful collection,
processing, and dissemination of market data; and (vii) monitoring of such systems to identify
potential SCI events. Rule 1001(a)(3) requires each SCI entity to periodically review the
effectiveness of the policies and procedures required by Rule 1001(a), and take prompt action to
remedy deficiencies in such policies and procedures. Rule 1001(a)(4) states that an SCI entity’s
policies and procedures shall be deemed to be reasonably designed if they are consistent with
current SCI industry standards, which are required to be comprised of information technology
practices that are widely available to information technology professionals in the financial sector
and issued by an authoritative body that is a U.S. governmental entity or agency, association of
U.S. governmental entities or agencies, or widely recognized organization, though compliance
with current SCI industry standards is not the exclusive means to comply with the requirements
of Rule 1001(a).
Rule 1001(b)(1) requires each SCI entity to establish, maintain, and enforce written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems operate in a manner
that complies with the Act and rules and regulations thereunder and the entity’s rules and
governing documents, as applicable. Rule 1001(b)(2) specifies that such policies and procedures
are required to include, at a minimum: (i) testing of all SCI systems and any changes to SCI
systems prior to implementation; (ii) a system of internal controls over changes to SCI systems;
(iii) a plan for assessments of the functionality of SCI systems designed to detect systems

451

compliance issues, including by responsible SCI personnel and by personnel familiar with
applicable provisions of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and the SCI entity’s
rules and governing documents; and (iv) a plan of coordination and communication between
regulatory and other personnel of the SCI entity, including by responsible SCI personnel,
regarding SCI systems design, changes, testing, and controls designed to detect and prevent
systems compliance issues. Rule 1001(b)(3) requires each SCI entity to periodically review the
effectiveness of the policies and procedures required by Rule 1001(b), and take prompt action to
remedy deficiencies in such policies and procedures. Further, pursuant to Rule 1001(b)(4),
personnel of an SCI entity is deemed not to have aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, caused,
induced, or procured the violation by an SCI entity of Rule 1001(b) if the person: (i) has
reasonably discharged the duties and obligations incumbent upon such person by the SCI entity’s
policies and procedures; and (ii) was without reasonable cause to believe that the policies and
procedures relating to an SCI system for which such person was responsible, or had supervisory
responsibility, were not established, maintained, or enforced in accordance with Rule 1001(b) in
any material respect.
Rule 1001(c)(1) requires each SCI entity to establish, maintain, and enforce reasonably
designed written policies and procedures that include the criteria for identifying responsible SCI
personnel, the designation and documentation of responsible SCI personnel, and escalation
procedures to quickly inform responsible SCI personnel of potential SCI events. Rule 1001(c)(2)
requires each SCI entity to periodically review the effectiveness of the policies and procedures
required by Rule 1001(c)(1), and take prompt action to remedy deficiencies in such policies and
procedures.

452

Rule 1004 requires an SCI entity, with respect to its business continuity and disaster
recovery plans, including its backup systems, to: (a) establish standards for the designation of
those members or participants that the SCI entity reasonably determines are, taken as a whole,
the minimum necessary for the maintenance of fair and orderly markets in the event of the
activation of such plans; and (b) designate members or participants pursuant to such standards
and require participation by such members or participants in scheduled functional and
performance testing of the operation of such plans, in the manner and frequency as specified by
the SCI entity, at least once every 12 months (e.g., for SCI SROs, by submitting proposed rule
changes under Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act; for SCI ATSs, by revising membership or
subscriber agreements and internal procedures; for plan processors, through an amendment to an
SCI Plan under Rule 608 of Regulation NMS; and, for exempt clearing agencies subject to ARP,
by revising participant agreements and internal procedures). Rule 1004(c) requires an SCI entity
to coordinate such required testing on an industry- or sector-wide basis with other SCI entities.
2.

Notification, Dissemination, and Reporting Requirements for SCI
Entities

Certain rules under Regulation SCI require SCI entities to notify or report information to
the Commission, or disseminate information to their members or participants. Rules 1002 and
1003 each contain notification, dissemination, or reporting requirements. 1389
Rule 1002(b) requires Commission notification of SCI events. Rule 1002(b)(1) requires
an SCI entity to immediately notify the Commission upon any responsible SCI personnel having
1389

To access EFFS, the secure Commission Web site for filing of Form SCI, an SCI entity
will submit to the Commission an External Application User Authentication Form
(“EAUF”) to register each individual at the SCI entity who will access the EFFS system
on behalf of the SCI entity. Upon receipt and verification of the information in the
EAUF process, the Commission will issue each such person a User ID and Password to
permit access to the Commission’s secure Web site.

453

a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred. These notifications may be made
orally or in writing.
Rule 1002(b)(2) requires an SCI entity, within 24 hours of any responsible SCI personnel
having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred, to submit a written
notification to the Commission on Form SCI pertaining to such SCI event. 1390 Rule 1002(b)(2)
requires that this notification include: (i) a description of the SCI event, including the system(s)
affected; and (ii) to the extent available as of the time of the notification, the SCI entity’s current
assessment of the types and number of market participants potentially affected by the SCI event,
the potential impact of the SCI event on the market, a description of the steps the SCI entity has
taken, is taking, or plans to take, with respect to the SCI event, the time the SCI event was
resolved or timeframe within which the SCI event is expected to be resolved, and any other
pertinent information known by the SCI entity about the SCI event.
Rule 1002(b)(3) requires an SCI entity, until an SCI event is resolved and the SCI entity’s
investigation of the SCI event is closed, to provide updates pertaining to such SCI event to the
Commission on a regular basis, or at such frequency as reasonably requested by a representative
of the Commission, to correct any materially incorrect information previously provided, or when
new information is discovered (including but not limited to any of the information listed in Rule
1002(b)(2)(ii)). The updates under Rule 1002(b)(3) may be made orally or in writing.
Rule 1002(b)(4) states that, if an SCI event is resolved and the SCI entity’s investigation
of the SCI event is closed within 30 calendar days of the occurrence of the event, then within 5
business days after the resolution of the SCI event and closure of the investigation regarding the
SCI event, the SCI entity is required to submit a final written notification to the Commission
1390

This notification is required to be submitted on a good faith, best efforts basis.

454

pertaining to the SCI event. This notification is required to include: (i) a detailed description of
the SCI entity’s assessment of the types and number of market participants affected by the SCI
event, the SCI entity’s assessment of the impact of the SCI event on the market, the steps that the
SCI entity has taken, is taking, or plans to take with respect to the SCI event, the time the SCI
event was resolved, the SCI entity’s rule(s) and/or governing document(s), as applicable, that
relate to the SCI event, and any other pertinent information known by the SCI entity about the
SCI event; (ii) a copy of any information disseminated pursuant to Rule 1002(c) by the SCI
entity to date regarding the SCI event to any of its members or participants; and (iii) an analysis
of parties that may have experienced a loss, whether monetary or otherwise, due to the SCI
event, the number of such parties, and an estimate of the aggregate amount of such loss. Rule
1002(b)(4)(iv) further states that, if an SCI event is not resolved or the SCI entity’s investigation
of the SCI event is not closed within 30 days of the occurrence of the SCI event, then the SCI
entity is required to submit an interim written notification pertaining to such event within 30
calendar days after the occurrence of the event, containing the information required by Rule
1002(b)(4)(ii) to the extent known at that time. Within 5 business days after the resolution of
such event and closure of the investigation, the SCI entity is required to submit a final written
notification to the Commission, containing the information required by Rule 1002(b)(4)(ii).
Rule 1002(b)(5) states that the requirements of Rules 1002(b)(1)-(4) do not apply to de
minimis SCI events. Instead, for these types of SCI events, an SCI entity is required to make,
keep, and preserve records relating to these events, and submit to the Commission quarterly
reports containing a summary description of de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis
systems intrusions, including the SCI systems and, for systems intrusions, indirect SCI systems,

455

affected by such systems disruptions and systems intrusions during the applicable calendar
quarter.
Rule 1002(c) requires the dissemination of information regarding certain SCI events and
specifies the nature and timing of such dissemination. Rule 1002(c)(1)(i) requires an SCI entity,
promptly after any responsible SCI personnel has a reasonable basis to conclude that a systems
disruption or systems compliance issue has occurred, to disseminate the following information
about such SCI event: (A) the system(s) affected by the SCI event; and (B) a summary
description of the SCI event. In addition, Rule 1002(c)(1)(ii) requires an SCI entity, when
known, to further disseminate the following information: (A) a detailed description of the SCI
event; (B) the SCI entity’s current assessment of the types and number of market participants
potentially affected by the SCI event; and (C) a description of the progress of its corrective
action for the SCI event and when the SCI event has been or is expected to be resolved. Rule
1002(c)(1)(iii) requires that an SCI entity provide regular updates of the information required to
be disseminated under Rule 1002(c)(1)(i) and (ii).
With respect to systems intrusions, Rule 1002(c)(2) states that, promptly after any
responsible SCI personnel has a reasonable basis to conclude that a systems intrusion has
occurred, an SCI entity is required to disseminate a summary description of the systems
intrusion, including a description of the corrective action taken by the SCI entity and when the
systems intrusion has been or is expected to be resolved, unless the SCI entity determines that
dissemination of such information would likely compromise the security of the SCI entity’s SCI

456

systems or indirect SCI systems, or an investigation of the systems intrusion, and documents the
reasons for such determination. 1391
Rule 1002(c)(4) provides that the information dissemination requirement does not apply
to SCI events to the extent they relate to market regulation or market surveillance systems, or to
any de minimis SCI events.
Rule 1003(a)(1) requires an SCI entity, within 30 calendar days after the end of each
calendar quarter, to submit to the Commission a report describing completed, ongoing, and
planned material changes to its SCI systems and the security of indirect SCI systems, during the
prior, current, and subsequent calendar quarters, including the dates or expected dates of
commencement and completion. Rule 1003(a)(2) further requires an SCI entity to promptly
submit a supplemental report to notify the Commission of a material error in or material
omission from a report previously submitted under Rule 1003(a).
Rules 1003(b)(1) and (2) require an SCI entity to conduct periodic SCI reviews of its
compliance with Regulation SCI, 1392 and to submit a report of the SCI review to senior
management of the SCI entity for review no more than 30 calendar days after completion of such

1391

Rule 1002(c)(3) provides that the information specified in Rules 1002(c)(1) and (2) is
required to be disseminated to members or participants of the SCI entity that a
responsible SCI personnel has reasonably estimated may have been affected by the SCI
event, and promptly disseminated to any additional members or participants that any
responsible SCI personnel subsequently reasonably estimates may have been affected by
the SCI event. However, information regarding major SCI events must be disseminated
to all members or participants of an SCI entity.

1392

SCI entities are required to conduct an SCI review not less than once each calendar year.
However, under Rule 1003(b)(1)(i), penetration test reviews of the network, firewalls,
and production systems are required to be conducted not less than once every three years.
Under Rule 1003(b)(1)(ii), assessments of SCI systems directly supporting market
regulation or market surveillance are required to be conducted at a frequency based on
risk assessment, but not less than once every three years.

457

SCI review. Rule 1003(b)(3) also requires an SCI entity to submit to the Commission, and to the
board of directors of the SCI entity or the equivalent of such board, a report of the SCI review,
together with any response by senior management, within 60 calendar days after its submission
to senior management of the SCI entity.
Rule 1006 requires any notifications to the Commission required to be submitted under
Regulation SCI, except notifications pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(1) or 1002(b)(3), to be filed
electronically on Form SCI, include all information as prescribed in Form SCI and the
instructions thereto, and contain an electronic signature. In addition, pursuant to Rule 1006(b),
the signatory to an electronically filed Form SCI is required to manually sign a signature page or
document authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears
in typed form within the electronic filing. Such document is required to be retained by the SCI
entity in accordance with Rule 1005.
3.

Requirements to Take Corrective Action and Identify Critical SCI
Systems, Major SCI Events, De Minimis SCI Events, and Material
Systems Changes

Rule 1002(a) requires an SCI entity, upon any responsible SCI personnel having a
reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred, to begin to take appropriate
corrective action, which is required to include, at a minimum, mitigating potential harm to
investors and market integrity resulting from the SCI event and devoting adequate resources to
remedy the SCI event as soon as reasonably practicable. The Commission believes that SCI
entities are likely to work to develop a written process for ensuring that they are prepared to
comply with the corrective action requirement and are likely to also periodically review this
process.

458

In connection with the reporting of material systems changes, Rule 1003(a)(1) requires an
SCI entity to establish reasonable written criteria for identifying a change to its SCI systems and
the security of indirect SCI systems as material. In addition, because the Commission
notification and information dissemination requirements under Rules 1002(b) and (c),
respectively, apply differently to SCI events depending on whether an event is a “major SCI
event” or whether the event has no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on
market participants, when an SCI event occurs, an SCI entity must determine whether an SCI
event is a major SCI event or a de minimis SCI event. Moreover, because the business
continuity and disaster recovery policies and procedures requirement under Rule 1001(a)(2)(v)
imposes different resumption goals for critical SCI systems as compared to other SCI systems,
an SCI entity must determine whether an SCI system is a critical SCI system. 1393 As such, SCI
entities would likely work to develop a written process for ensuring that they are able to make
timely and accurate determinations regarding the nature of an SCI system or SCI event, and
periodically review this process.
4.

Recordkeeping Requirements

Rule 1005 sets forth recordkeeping requirements for SCI entities. Under Rule 1005(a),
SCI SROs are required to make, keep, and preserve all documents relating to their compliance
with Regulation SCI as prescribed in Rule 17a-1 under the Exchange Act. Under Rule 1005(b),
each SCI entity that is not an SCI SRO is required to make, keep, and preserve at least one copy
of all documents, including correspondence, memoranda, papers, books, notices, accounts, and
other such records, relating to its compliance with Regulation SCI, including, but not limited to,
1393

Also, pursuant to the definition of “major SCI event,” in determining whether an SCI
event is a major SCI event, an SCI entity is required to consider whether an SCI event
can have any impact on a critical SCI system. See Rule 1000.

459

records relating to any changes to its SCI systems and indirect SCI systems. Each SCI entity that
is not an SCI SRO is required to keep all such documents for a period of not less than five years,
the first two years in a place that is readily accessible to the Commission or its representatives
for inspection and examination. Upon request of any representative of the Commission, such
SCI entities would be required to promptly furnish to the possession of such representative
copies of any documents required to be kept and preserved by it under Rules 1005(b)(1) and (2).
Under Rule 1005(c), upon or immediately prior to ceasing to do business or ceasing to be
registered under the Exchange Act, an SCI entity is required to take all necessary action to
ensure that the records required to be made, kept, and preserved by Rule 1005 will be accessible
to the Commission and its representatives in the manner required by Rule 1005 and for the
remainder of the period required by Rule 1005.
In addition, Rule 1007 provides that, if the records required to be filed or kept by an SCI
entity under Regulation SCI are prepared or maintained by a service bureau or other
recordkeeping service on behalf of the SCI entity, the SCI entity is required to ensure that the
records are available for review by the Commission and its representatives by submitting a
written undertaking, in a form acceptable to the Commission, by such service bureau or other
recordkeeping service and signed by a duly authorized person at such service bureau or other
recordkeeping service.
B.

Use of Information
1.

Requirements to Establish Written Policies and Procedures and
Mandate Participation in Certain Testing

The requirement that SCI entities establish policies and procedures under adopted Rule
1001(a) should advance the goal of improving Commission review and oversight of U.S.
securities market infrastructure by requiring an SCI entity’s policies and procedures to be
460

reasonably designed to ensure its own operational capability, including the ability to maintain
effective operations, minimize or eliminate the effect of performance degradations, and have
sufficient backup and recovery capabilities. Because an SCI entity’s own operational capability
can have the potential to impact investors, the overall market, or the trading of individual
securities, the Commission believes that these policies and procedures will help promote the
maintenance of fair and orderly markets.
The Commission believes that Rule 1001(b), which requires each SCI entity to establish,
maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI
systems operate in a manner that complies with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations
thereunder and the entity’s rules and governing documents, as applicable, will help to prevent the
occurrence of systems compliance issues. In addition, the Commission believes Rule 1001(b)
will help to: ensure that SCI SROs comply with Section 19(b)(1) of the Exchange Act; reinforce
existing SRO rule filing processes to assist market participants and the public in understanding
how the SCI systems of SCI SROs are intended to operate; and assist SCI SROs in meeting their
obligations to file plan amendments to SCI Plans under Rule 608 of Regulation NMS. It should
similarly help other SCI entities to achieve operational compliance with the Exchange Act, the
rules and regulations thereunder, and their governing documents.
The requirement to establish policies and procedures pursuant to Rule 1001(c) that
include the designation and documentation of responsible SCI personnel should help make it
clear to all employees of the SCI entity who the designated responsible SCI personnel are for
purposes of the escalation procedures and so that Commission staff can easily identify such
responsible SCI personnel in the course of its inspections and examinations and other
interactions with SCI entities. The Commission also believes that escalation procedures to

461

quickly inform responsible SCI personnel of potential SCI events will help ensure that the
appropriate person(s) are provided notice of potential SCI events so that any appropriate actions
can be taken in accordance with the requirements of Regulation SCI without unnecessary delay.
The Commission believes that the requirement that SCI entities establish standards that
require designated members or participants to participate in the testing of their business
continuity and disaster recovery plans will help reduce the risks associated with an SCI entity’s
decision to activate its BC/DR plans and help to ensure that such plans operate as intended, if
activated. The testing participation requirement should help an SCI entity to ensure that its
efforts to develop effective BC/DR plans are not undermined by a lack of participation by
members or participants that the SCI entity believes are necessary to the successful activation of
such plans. This requirement should also assist the Commission in maintaining fair and orderly
markets in a BC/DR scenario following a wide-scale disruption.
2.

Notification, Dissemination, and Reporting Requirements for SCI
Entities

Adopted Rule 1002(b), including adopted Rules 1002(b)(1)-(3), will foster a system for
comprehensive reporting of SCI events, which should enhance the Commission’s review and
oversight of U.S. securities market infrastructure and foster cooperation between the
Commission and SCI entities in responding to SCI events. The Commission also believes that
the aggregated data that will result from the reporting of SCI events will enhance its ability to
comprehensively analyze the nature and types of various SCI events and identify more
effectively areas of persistent or recurring problems across the systems of all SCI entities. The
information in the final report required under Rule 1002(b)(4) should provide the Commission
with a comprehensive analysis to more fully understand and assess the impact caused by the SCI
event. The Commission expects that the quarterly reporting required by Rule 1002(b)(5) will
462

better achieve the goal of keeping Commission staff informed regarding the nature and
frequency of systems disruptions and systems intrusions that arise but are reasonably estimated
by the SCI entity to have a de minimis impact on the entity’s operations or on market
participants. Further, submission and review of regular reports should facilitate Commission
staff comparisons among SCI entities and thereby permit the Commission and its staff to have a
more holistic view of the types of systems operations challenges that were posed to SCI entities
in the aggregate.
Adopted Rule 1002(c) advances the Commission’s goal of promoting fair and orderly
markets by disseminating information about an SCI event to some or all of the SCI entity’s
members or participants, who can use such information to evaluate the event’s impact on their
trading and other activities and develop an appropriate response.
The quarterly material systems change reports required by Rule 1003(a) should permit
the Commission and its staff to have up-to-date information regarding an SCI entity’s systems
development progress and plans, and help the Commission with its oversight of U.S. securities
market infrastructure.
The SCI reviews under Rule 1003(b) should not only assist the Commission in improving
its oversight of the technology infrastructure of SCI entities, but also each SCI entity in assessing
the effectiveness of its information technology practices, helping to ensure compliance with the
safeguards provided by the requirements of Regulation SCI, identifying potential areas of
weakness that require additional or modified controls, and determining where to best devote
resources.
Rule 1006 provides a uniform manner in which the Commission would receive—and SCI
entities would provide—written notifications, reviews, descriptions, analyses, or reports made

463

pursuant to Regulation SCI. The Commission believes that Rule 1006 therefore allows SCI
entities to efficiently draft and submit the required reports, and for the Commission to efficiently
review, analyze, and respond to the information provided.
As noted above, in order to access EFFS, an SCI entity will submit to the Commission an
EAUF to register each individual at the SCI entity who access the EFFS system on behalf of the
SCI entity. The information provided via EAUF will be used by the Commission to verify the
identity of the individual submitting Form SCI on behalf of the SCI entity and provide such
individual access to the EFFS.
3.

Requirements to Take Corrective Action and Identify Critical SCI
Systems, Major SCI Events, De Minimis SCI Events, and Material
Systems Changes

The requirement that SCI entities begin to take appropriate corrective action upon any
responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred,
and the policies and procedures SCI entities would likely use to implement this requirement,
should help facilitate SCI entities’ responses to SCI events, including taking appropriate steps
necessary to remedy the problem or problems causing such SCI event and mitigate the negative
effects of the SCI event, if any, on market participants and the securities markets more broadly.
The requirement that each SCI entity establish written criteria for identifying material systems
changes should help the Commission ensure that it is kept apprised of the systems changes that
SCI entities believe to be material and aid the Commission and its staff in understanding the
operations and functionality of the systems of an SCI entity and any changes to such systems.
The Commission expects that the application of different requirements (e.g., Commission
notification requirements and information dissemination requirements) to critical SCI systems,
major SCI events, and de minimis SCI events, and the policies and procedures required by SCI

464

entities to make these determinations, will help to ensure that the Commission is kept apprised of
SCI events, and that relevant market participants have basic information about SCI events so that
those notified can better develop an appropriate response. These policies and procedures should
also assist SCI entities in complying with the notification, dissemination and reporting
requirements of Regulation SCI.
4.

Recordkeeping Requirements

Rule 1005 requires each SCI entity to make, keep, and preserve records relating to its
compliance with Regulation SCI because such records should assist the Commission in
understanding whether an SCI entity is meeting its obligations under Regulation SCI, assessing
whether an SCI entity has appropriate policies and procedures with respect to its technology
systems, helping to identify the causes and consequences of an SCI event, and understanding the
types of material systems changes occurring at an SCI entity. The Commission expects that Rule
1005 will also facilitate the Commission’s inspections and examinations of SCI entities and
assist it in evaluating an SCI entity’s compliance with Regulation SCI. Moreover, having an SCI
entity’s records available even after it has ceased to do business or to be registered under the
Exchange Act should provide an additional tool to help the Commission to reconstruct important
market events and better understand the impact of such events.
Rule 1007 should help ensure the Commission’s ability to obtain required records that are
held by a third party who may not otherwise have an obligation to make such records available to
the Commission.
C.

Respondents

The “collection of information” requirements contained in Regulation SCI apply to SCI
entities, as described below. Currently, there are 27 entities that would satisfy the definition of

465

SCI SRO, 1394 14 entities that would satisfy the definition of SCI ATS, 1395 2 entities that would
satisfy the definition of plan processor, 1396 and 1 entity that would meet the definition of exempt
clearing agency subject to ARP. 1397 Accordingly, the Commission estimates that there are
currently 44 entities that meet the definition of SCI entity and are subject to the collection of
information requirements of Regulation SCI.
D.

Total Initial and Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burdens

The Commission notes that national securities exchanges, national securities associations,
registered clearing agencies, plan processors, one ATS, and one exempt clearing agency
currently participate in the ARP Inspection Program. Under the ARP Inspection Program,
Commission staff conducts inspections of these entities, attends periodic technology briefings by
staff of these entities, monitors planned significant systems changes, and responds to reports of
systems failures, disruptions, and other systems problems of these entities. 1398
Under Regulation SCI, many of the principles of the ARP policy statements with which
some SCI entities are familiar are codified. As such, current practices of these SCI entities
already comply with certain requirements of Regulation SCI. 1399 However, because Regulation

1394

See supra notes 74-77 and accompanying text (listing 18 registered national securities
exchanges, 7 registered clearing agencies, FINRA, and the MSRB). See also supra note
80 and accompanying text.

1395

See supra notes 150 and 175 and accompanying text.

1396

See supra note 202 and accompanying text.

1397

See supra note 203 and accompanying text.

1398

See supra Section II.A.

1399

In addition, some SCI entities already comply with certain requirements of Regulation
SCI to some extent as a matter of prudent business practice or pursuant to other rules.
For example, as noted above, FINRA Rule 4370 includes requirements for FINRA
members related to business continuity plans. See supra note 115. In addition, NASD
Rule 3010 and FINRA Rule 3130 include requirements for FINRA members related to
466

SCI has a broader scope than the current ARP Inspection Program and imposes mandatory
recordkeeping obligations on SCI entities, 1400 the Commission believes Regulation SCI will
impose paperwork burdens on all SCI entities.
The Commission’s total burden estimates in this Paperwork Reduction Act section reflect
the total burdens on all SCI entities, taking into account the extent to which some SCI entities
already comply with some of the requirements of Regulation SCI. The Commission also notes
that the burden estimates per SCI entity are intended to reflect the average paperwork burden for
each SCI entity to comply with Regulation SCI. Therefore, some SCI entities may experience
more burden than the Commission’s estimates, while others may experience less. The
Commission notes that the burden figures set forth in this section are the Commission’s estimate
of the paperwork burden for compliance with Regulation SCI based on a variety of sources,
including Commission staff’s experience with the current ARP Inspection Program, other similar

procedures to achieve compliance with applicable securities laws and regulations and
certain SRO rules. See supra note 115. Further, FINRA Rule 4530 includes reporting
requirements related to certain compliance issues. See supra note 115. Compliance with
existing requirements under FINRA rules could help SCI ATSs to comply with
Regulation SCI. Therefore, the Commission acknowledges that SCI ATSs may
experience a lower paperwork burden in complying with certain provisions of Regulation
SCI than some other SCI entities. However, unlike SCI entities that participate in the
ARP Inspection Program (where in many instances the Commission has estimated a 50%
reduction in SCI entity staff compliance burden as compared to other SCI entities when
estimating paperwork costs with regard to Regulation SCI requirements due to
participation in the ARP inspection program), the Commission believes that any
reduction in burden resulting from compliance with these FINRA and NASD rules is
unlikely to be significant.
1400

As discussed more fully in supra Section IV.C.1, SCI SROs are already subject to
existing recordkeeping and retention requirements under Rule 17a-1.

467

estimated burdens for analogous rulemakings, and comments received on the burden estimates in
the SCI Proposal. 1401
1.

Requirements to Establish Written Policies and Procedures and
Mandate Participation in Certain Testing

The rules under Regulation SCI that would require an SCI entity to establish policies and
procedures and to mandate member or participant participation in business continuity and
disaster recovery plan testing are discussed more fully in Sections IV.B.1, IV.B.2, and IV.B.6
above.
a.

Policies and Procedures

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated that an SCI entity that has not previously
participated in the ARP Inspection Program would require an average of 210 burden hours
initially to develop and draft the policies and procedures required by proposed Rule 1000(b)(1)
(except for the policies and procedures for standards that result in systems being designed,
developed, tested, maintained, operated, and surveilled in a manner that facilitates the successful
collection, processing, and dissemination of market data) 1402 and 60 hours annually to review

1401

The Commission also notes that the allocation of burden hours between staff and
managers of an SCI entity that are identified in this section is intended to reflect the
Commission’s estimate of the broad categories of SCI entity personnel who will be
involved in compliance with Regulation SCI. The Commission recognizes that some SCI
entities may have additional subcategories of staff or managers who will be involved in
compliance with Regulation SCI (e.g., information security staff may be a subcategory of
systems analysts), whereas other SCI entities may not have the specific categories of staff
or managers that are identified in this section.

1402

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18145. The 210 burden hours included 80 hours
by a Compliance Manager (including senior management review), 80 hours by an
Attorney, 25 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 25 hours by an Operations
Specialist. See id. at 18146. This estimate was based on Commission staff’s experience
with the ARP Inspection Program and the Commission’s preliminary estimate in the SB
SDR Proposing Release for a similar requirement. See id. at 18145, n. 365.

468

and update such policies and procedures. 1403 The Commission estimated that an SCI entity that
currently participates in the ARP Inspection Program would require an average of 105 burden
hours initially to develop and draft such policies and procedures 1404 and 30 hours annually to
review and update such policies and procedures. 1405 With respect to the requirement in proposed
Rule 1000(b)(1) for policies and procedures that provide for standards that result in systems
being designed, developed, tested, maintained, operated, and surveilled in a manner that
facilitates the successful collection, processing, and dissemination of market data, the
Commission estimated that each SCI entity would spend 130 hours annually. 1406 In the SCI
Proposal, the Commission also estimated that all SCI entities would conduct most of the work

1403

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18146. The 60 burden hours included 30 hours
by a Compliance Manager and 30 hours by an Attorney. See id. This estimate was based
on Commission staff’s experience with the ARP Inspection Program and the
Commission’s preliminary estimate in the SB SDR Proposing Release for a similar
requirement. See id. at 18146, n. 377.

1404

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18145. The 105 burden hours included 40 hours
by a Compliance Manager (including senior management review), 40 hours by an
Attorney, 12.5 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 12.5 hours by an Operations
Specialist. See id. at 18146. The Commission stated its belief that a fifty percent
baseline for SCI entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program is appropriate
because, although these entities already have substantial policies and procedures in place,
the rule would require these entities to devote substantial time to review and revise their
existing policies and procedures to ensure that they are sufficiently robust. See id. at
18145.

1405

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18146. The 30 burden hours included 15 hours
by a Compliance Manager and 15 hours by an Attorney. See id.

1406

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18145. The 130 burden hours included 30 hours
by a Compliance Attorney and 100 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst. See id. at 18146.
This estimate was based on Commission staff’s experience with the ARP Inspection
Program. See id. at 18145, n. 371. The Commission noted in the SCI Proposal that this
proposed requirement was not addressed by the ARP Inspection Program. See id. at
18145.

469

associated with proposed Rule 1000(b)(1) internally. 1407 However, the Commission estimated
that SCI entities would seek outside legal and/or consulting services in the initial preparation of
the policies and procedures at an average cost of $20,000 per SCI entity. 1408
With respect to proposed Rule 1000(b)(2), the Commission estimated that each SCI
entity would elect to comply with the proposed safe harbor provisions. 1409 The Commission
estimated that each SCI entity would spend 180 hours initially to design the policies and
procedures accordingly. 1410 The Commission estimated that each SCI SRO would spend
approximately 120 hours annually to review and update such policies and procedures, 1411 and
that each SCI entity that is not an SRO would spend approximately 60 hours to review and
update such policies and procedures. 1412 In the SCI Proposal, the Commission also estimated
that all SCI entities would conduct most of the work associated with proposed Rule 1000(b)(2)
internally. 1413 However, the Commission estimated that SCI entities would seek outside legal

1407

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18145.

1408

See id.

1409

See id. at 18146, and proposed Rules 1000(b)(2)(ii) and (iii).

1410

See id. at 18146. The 180 burden hours included 30 hours by a Compliance Attorney and
150 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst. See id. This estimate was based on Commission
staff’s experience with the ARP Inspection Program and OCIE examinations, which
review policies and procedures of registered entities in conjunction with examinations of
such entities for compliance with the federal securities laws. See id. at 18146, n. 383.

1411

See id. at 18146. The 120 burden hours included 20 hours by a Compliance Attorney and
100 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst. See id. This estimate was based on Commission
staff’s experience with the ARP Inspection Program. See id. at 18146, n. 384.

1412

See id. at 18146. The 60 burden hours included 10 hours by a Compliance Attorney and
50 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst. See id.

1413

See id. at 18145.

470

and/or consulting services in the initial preparation of the policies and procedures at an average
cost of $20,000 per SCI entity. 1414
Several commenters noted that the Commission underestimated the paperwork burden of
proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (b)(2). One commenter noted that the systems covered by
proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (b)(2) are very complex and a first draft of the required policies
and procedures would take far more than the estimated number of hours to complete and keep
up-to-date. 1415 With respect to proposed Rule 1000(b)(2), this commenter stated that the breadth
of the rule is extremely comprehensive because it requires policies and procedures that are
designed to ensure that SCI systems “comply with the federal securities laws and rules and
regulations thereunder” and operate “in the manner intended.” 1416
Another commenter noted that the hour burdens did not take into account the appropriate
level of management review in connection with the development of the policies and
procedures. 1417 This commenter also noted that policies and procedures developed to achieve

1414

See id.

1415

See Omgeo Letter at 31-32, 34. According to this commenter, the implementation of its
current information security policy framework and related standards took approximately
18 months and over 1600 work hours to put in place. See id. This commenter noted that
proposed Rule 1000(b)(1) would be far more labor and resource intensive because
security is just one of the proposed seven areas of policy and standards development this
new rule would require. See id.

1416

See id. at 34.

1417

See MSRB Letter at 28-29. This commenter stated that the Commission placed too much
reliance on its experience with the ARP Inspection Program, which was “a voluntary
program that did not create potential legal liabilities for non-compliance, and may not
take into account the heightened need for high-level supervision that a rule-based
requirement would entail.” See id. at 29. See also infra Sections IV.B.3.c and VI.C.2.b
(discussing the Commission’s view on the potential for liability resulting from
requirements under Regulation SCI). See also Omgeo Letter at 32 (noting that the
estimate of 210 hours for proposed Rule 1000(b)(1) is unrealistic because the estimate
should include not only the drafting of the required policies and procedures, but also their
471

compliance with Regulation SCI can potentially impact other areas of the SCI entity and other
SCI entities, and therefore an SCI entity would broadly review the policies and procedures to
ensure that they do not conflict with other policies, procedures, practices, and processes and
revise the policies and procedures accordingly. 1418 Therefore, this commenter argued that the
Commission did not include adequate estimates for the substantial amount of time required by
senior management and others in the organization, as well as the persons identified in the SCI
Proposal, in: understanding the breadth and depth of the requirements established by proposed
Regulation SCI; determining which systems of the SCI entity fall into the various categories of
systems described in proposed Regulation SCI; assessing, growing and potentially reorganizing
large portions of the SCI entity’s workforce to align with the requirements of proposed
Regulation SCI; and establishing and conducting extensive training curriculum to ensure
appropriate personnel fully understand their new or changed duties; and any number of other
collateral effects of the new requirements. 1419 This commenter suggested that a more accurate
estimate of the paperwork burden from proposed Rule 1000(b)(1) would be three to four times
the estimate in the SCI Proposal, and the allocation of the burden hours should be weighted more
heavily toward more senior staff of the organization. 1420
One commenter stated that the 50% baseline for SCI entities that are currently under the
ARP Inspection Program does not account for the significant expansion of the requirements if

review and approval by senior management) and 35 (noting that the burden estimate of
proposed Rule 1000(b)(2) does not reflect the review and direction of senior managers);
and CME Letter at 3, n. 5.
1418

See MSRB Letter at 29.

1419

See id. at 30.

1420

See id.

472

the definition of SCI system is construed broadly, and as a result, the burden estimates may be
too low. 1421
One commenter agreed with the Commission that ongoing paperwork burdens for
compliance with proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (b)(2) should be lower than the initial
burden. 1422 However, this commenter stated that the estimated ongoing burden is understated,
but likely to a lesser extent than with respect to the initial burden. 1423 Another commenter also
noted that, given the complexity of the underlying systems and the requirements of proposed
Rule 1000(b)(1), significantly more effort and time will be required on an ongoing basis to
comply with that rule. 1424
One commenter noted that the establishment of the policies and procedures under
proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (b)(2) would not be conducive to outsourcing, although an SCI
entity might incur some cost for outside counsel for consultation purposes. 1425 On the other
hand, another commenter argued that the Commission’s burden estimate for proposed Rule
1000(b)(1) “is inaccurate because of its mistaken assumption that SCI entities would not seek
guidance from outside consultants and attorneys.” 1426 This commenter noted that, given the rates
charged by large law firms and consulting firms, an estimate of approximately $100,000 for each
exempt clearing agency subject to ARP is more realistic than the $20,000 estimated in the SCI

1421

See FINRA Letter at 7.

1422

See MSRB Letter at 31.

1423

See id.

1424

See Omgeo Letter at 32, n. 63.

1425

See MSRB Letter at 31.

1426

See Omgeo Letter at 32.

473

Proposal. 1427 This commenter similarly noted that the burden estimate for proposed Rule
1000(b)(2) failed to account for the costs associated with using outside counsel or an outside
consulting firm to help draft the policies and procedure. 1428
As discussed in detail above in Sections IV.B.1 and IV.B.2, the Commission is adopting
proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (b)(2) as Rules 1001(a) and (b), respectively, with certain
modifications. As adopted, Rule 1001(a)(1), consistent with the proposal, requires each SCI
entity to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to
ensure that its SCI systems and, for purposes of security standards, indirect SCI systems, have
levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security, adequate to maintain the SCI
entity’s operational capability and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets.
Adopted Rule 1001(a)(2), consistent with the proposal, provides the minimum required elements
of such policies and procedures. Some of these elements were modified from the proposal, 1429
and one adopted element was not included in the proposal. 1430

1427

See id. at 32, n. 64.

1428

See id. at 35.

1429

See, e.g., Rules 1001(a)(2)(i) (requiring policies and procedures with respect to the
establishment of reasonable current and future “technological infrastructure capacity
planning estimates” rather than simply “capacity planning estimates”); 1001(a)(2)(iv)
(requiring policies and procedures with respect to “regular reviews and testing, as
applicable,” of systems to identify vulnerabilities rather than “regular reviews and
testing” of systems); and 1001(a)(2)(v) (requiring policies and procedures with respect to
business continuity and disaster recovery plans that are “reasonably designed to achieve”
next business day resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of “critical SCI
systems” rather than “to ensure” next business day resumption of trading and two-hour
resumption of “clearance and settlement services”). See also supra Section IV.B.1.b.ii
(discussing modifications from the SCI Proposal in adopted Rule 1001(a)(2)).

1430

See Rule 1001(a)(2)(vii) (requiring policies and procedures with respect to monitoring of
systems to identify potential SCI events).

474

As compared to proposed Rule 1000(b)(2), which required written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to ensure that SCI systems operate “in the manner intended,
including in a manner that complies with the federal securities laws,” adopted Rule 1001(b)(1)
requires an SCI entity to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems operate in a manner that complies with the
Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, and the entity’s rules and governing
documents, as applicable. 1431 Further, rather than adopting the proposed safe harbor for SCI
entities, Rule 1001(b)(2) provides the minimum required elements of such policies and
procedures. Some of these elements were modified from the proposed safe harbor elements, 1432
and one element of the proposed safe harbor is not included in Rule 1001(b)(2). 1433
With respect to the view of a commenter that the systems covered by proposed Rules
1000(b)(1) and (2) are very complex and that the Commission underestimated the burdens
associated with completing and updating the required policies and procedures, 1434 the

1431

See supra Section IV.B.2.a.

1432

See Rules 1001(b)(2)(iii) (requiring policies and procedures with respect to “a plan for
assessments” of systems compliance rather than both “ongoing monitoring” and
“assessments” of systems compliance) and 1001(b)(2)(iv) (requiring policies and
procedures with respect to “a plan of coordination and communication between
regulatory and other personnel of the SCI entity, including by responsible SCI personnel”
regarding SCI systems rather than “review by regulatory personnel of SCI systems”).
See also supra Section IV.B.2.c (discussing modifications from the SCI Proposal in
adopted Rule 1001(b)(2)).

1433

See proposed Rule 1000(b)(2)(ii)(A)(2) (periodic testing of all SCI systems and any
changes to such systems after their implementation).

1434

See supra note 1415 and accompanying text. As noted above, one commenter stated that
its current information security policy framework and related standards took over 1,600
hours to put in place, and that security is just one of the seven areas of policies and
standards proposed to be required. See supra note 1415. The Commission notes that, to
the extent an SCI entity already has adequate policies and procedures in place with
respect to systems capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, security, and compliance,
475

Commission believes that most, if not all, SCI entities already have some policies and procedures
related to systems capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, security, and compliance, although
such policies and procedures differ in a variety of respects from the requirements under
Regulation SCI. Also, in adopting Regulation SCI, the Commission has reduced the burdens for
proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2) from the SCI Proposal in a variety of ways, including by, for
example: refining the definition of SCI systems; more explicitly recognizing that some systems
pose greater risk than others to the maintenance of fair and orderly markets and imposing
obligations that allow for risk-based considerations; and providing that staff guidance on current
SCI industry standards be characterized as providing examples of publications describing
processes, guidelines, frameworks, or standards for an SCI entity to consider looking to in
developing reasonable policies and procedures, rather than strictly as listing industry standards.
At the same time, the Commission acknowledges commenters’ feedback with respect to the
burden of the rules and thus is doubling the burden estimates for the policies and procedures
under Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2). 1435 The Commission notes that, as part of this approach, it
doubled the ongoing burden estimates in part in response to comment stating that significantly

Rules 1001(a) and (b) will not impose significant additional paperwork burden on the
entity.
1435

In response to the commenter that suggested the initial burden for proposed Rule
1000(b)(1) would be three to four times that estimated in the SCI Proposal, the
Commission believes that because it further focused the requirements associated with
proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2) in a variety of ways described above, resulting in
reduced burden estimates as compared to the SCI Proposal, the commenter’s estimate
based on the proposal is too high. See supra note 1420. Based on Commission staff
experience, the Commission believes it is more appropriate to double the estimated initial
SCI entity staff burden and also add senior management time.
476

more effort and time will be required on an ongoing basis to comply with proposed Rule
1000(b)(1). 1436
As noted above, some commenters noted that the policies and procedures could
potentially impact other areas of the SCI entity and other SCI entities, and therefore would result
in more burden hours to ensure that the policies and procedures do not conflict with other
policies, procedures, practices, and processes, and would require greater involvement of senior
management and others in an SCI entity. 1437 Similarly, some commenters noted that the
establishment, maintenance, and enforcement of the policies and procedures would involve
senior management review. 1438 The Commission agrees with these comments and is adjusting
the estimated paperwork burden. Specifically, in the SCI Proposal, the Commission included
senior management review as part of its estimated burden hours for Compliance Managers in
connection with the policies and procedures requirements under Rules 1001(a) and (b). 1439
However, in response to comments and based on Commission staff experience, the Commission
is additionally including burden estimates for a Director of Compliance (10 hours initially, 5

1436

See supra note 1424.

1437

See supra notes 1418-1419 and accompanying text.

1438

See supra notes 1417, 1419, and 1420 and accompanying text. According to one
commenter, the Commission’s burden estimates for the policies and procedures did not
account for the time required to determine which systems would fall into the various
categories of systems. See supra note 1419 and accompanying text. The Commission
disagrees with this view and notes that the burden of identifying various types of systems
and events are discussed below in Section V.D.3. In addition, this commenter expressed
concern that the Commission’s estimates did not account for assessing, growing, and
reorganizing an SCI entity’s workforce; establishing and conducting training; and other
collateral effects of the new requirements. See supra note 1419 and accompanying text.
As discussed throughout this section, the Commission has increased the burden estimates
for Rules 1001(a) and (b) in response to comments.

1439

See supra note 1402.
477

hours annually) and Chief Compliance Officer 1440 (20 hours initially, 10 hours annually) with
respect to both Rules 1001(a) and (b). 1441 The Commission reiterates that these estimates are
averages across all SCI entities—some SCI entities may spend more hours in connection with the
establishment, maintenance, and enforcement of the policies and procedures than the
Commission’s estimates, while others may spend less. 1442 Each SCI entity is required to
determine for itself what is required for its staff and senior managers to do in order for the SCI
entity to comply with Rules 1001(a) and (b).
After considering the views of commenters, and because Rule 1001(a) requires an
additional element to be included in the policies and procedures (i.e., monitoring of systems to
identify SCI events), the Commission estimates that an SCI entity that has not previously
participated in the ARP Inspection Program would require an average of 534 burden hours
initially to develop and draft the policies and procedures required by that rule (except for the
policies and procedures for standards that result in systems being designed, developed, tested,
maintained, operated, and surveilled in a manner that facilitates the successful collection,
1440

The Chief Compliance Officer burden estimates include the time spent by other senior
officers, including Chief Information Officers and Chief Information Security Officers, as
appropriate for a particular requirement under Regulation SCI.

1441

In estimating the number of burden hours to be spent by senior management, the
Commission is not making a distinction between SCI entities that currently participate in
the ARP Inspection Program and SCI entities that do not. In contrast to the
Commission’s estimate with regard to non-senior staff of SCI entities that currently
participate in the ARP Inspection Program, who the Commission believes could be
subject to less burden in drafting the policies and procedures because these SCI entities
already have certain policies and procedures in place, the Commission believes that all
senior management, regardless of whether an SCI entity participates in the ARP
Inspection Program, would require a similar number of hours to review such policies and
procedures to ensure compliance with Regulation SCI.

1442

For example, some SCI entities have more complex systems than others, and current
practices of some SCI entities already comply with certain requirements of Regulation
SCI to some extent.

478

processing, and dissemination of market data, which is discussed below), 1443 or 7,476 hours for
all such SCI entities. 1444 The Commission estimates that an SCI entity that has not previously
participated in the ARP Inspection Program would require an average of 159 hours annually to
review and update such policies and procedures, 1445 or 2,226 hours for all such SCI entities. 1446

1443

As noted above, the Commission is doubling its estimate of the burden for staff of SCI
entities. 210 hours × 2 = 420 hours. 420 hours ÷ 5 × 6 = 504 hours to establish policies
and procedures that contain six elements, as opposed to the five in the SCI Proposal. The
504 burden hours include 192 hours by a Compliance Manager, 192 hours by an
Attorney, 60 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 60 hours by an Operations
Specialist. This burden hour allocation is based on the allocation in the SCI Proposal.
See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18146. As noted above, as compared to the
proposal, the Commission is estimating an additional 20 hours by a Chief Compliance
Officer and 10 hours by a Director of Compliance to reflect the views of commenters that
compliance with the proposed policies and procedures requirements would require
greater senior management involvement. See supra notes 1440-1441 and accompanying
text. 504 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 20 hours + Director of Compliance at 10
hours = 534 hours.

1444

As noted above, all of the national securities exchanges (18), national securities
associations (1), registered clearing agencies (7), and plan processors (2) currently
participate on a voluntary basis in the ARP Inspection Program. In addition, 1 ATS and 1
exempt clearing agency subject to ARP participate in the ARP Inspection Program, for a
total of 30 SCI entities that currently participate in the ARP Inspection Program.
Therefore, 14 SCI entities do not participate in the ARP Inspection Program. 534 hours ×
14 SCI entities that do not participate in the ARP Inspection Program = 7,476 hours.

1445

As noted above, the Commission is doubling its estimate of the burden for staff of SCI
entities. 60 hours × 2 = 120 hours. 120 hours ÷ 5 × 6 = 144 hours annually to review and
update policies and procedures that contain six elements, as opposed to the five in the
SCI Proposal. The 144 burden hours include 57 hours by a Compliance Manager, 57
hours by an Attorney, 15 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 15 hours by an
Operations Specialist. As compared to the proposal, the Commission is additionally
allocating burden hours to Senior Systems Analysts and Operations Specialists. Also, as
noted above, as compared to the proposal, the Commission is estimating an additional 10
hours by a Chief Compliance Officer and 5 hours by a Director of Compliance to reflect
the views of commenters that compliance with the proposed policies and procedures
requirements would require greater senior management involvement. See supra notes
1440-1441 and accompanying text. 144 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 10 hours +
Director of Compliance at 5 hours = 159 hours.

1446

159 hours × 14 SCI entities that do not participate in the ARP Inspection Program =
2,226 hours. The Commission believes that the increases in the ongoing burden
479

With respect to SCI entities that currently participate in the ARP Inspection Program, the
Commission continues to believe that a 50% percent baseline for these SCI entities in terms of
staff burden hours is appropriate because although these entities already have substantial policies
and procedures in place, the rule would require these entities to devote substantial time to review
and revise their existing policies and procedures to ensure that they meet all of the rule
requirements. 1447 However, the Commission does not believe that a 50% baseline would be
appropriate for these SCI entities in terms of senior management review of the policies and
procedures. Specifically, as noted above, Commission believes that, although these entities
already have substantial policies and procedures in place, senior management of all SCI entities,
regardless of whether an SCI entity currently participates in the ARP Inspection Program, would
require a similar number of hours to review the SCI entity’s policies and procedures to ensure
compliance with the new requirements under Regulation SCI. 1448
The Commission estimates that an SCI entity that currently participates in the ARP
Inspection Program would require an average of 282 burden hours initially to develop and draft
the policies and procedures required by Rule 1001(a) (except for the policies and procedures for
standards that result in systems being designed, developed, tested, maintained, operated, and

estimates for Rules 1001(a) and (b) are consistent with the comment that the Commission
underestimated the ongoing burdens associated with proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2),
but to a lesser extent than with respect to the initial burden. See supra notes 1423-1424
and accompanying text.
1447

With respect to a commenter’s view that the 50% baseline does not account for the
significant expansion of the requirements, the Commission notes that the 50% baseline
merely indicates the difference between the level of burden imposed on SCI entities that
participate in the ARP Inspection Program and SCI entities that do not. See supra note
1421 and accompanying text. As discussed above, the Commission has increased its
burden estimates in response to comments.

1448

See supra note 1441.
480

surveilled in a manner that facilitates the successful collection, processing, and dissemination of
market data), 1449 or 8,460 hours for all such SCI entities. 1450 The Commission estimates that an
SCI entity that currently participates in the ARP Inspection Program would require an average of
87 hours annually to review and update such policies and procedures, 1451 or 2,610 hours for all
such SCI entities. 1452
With respect to the requirement in Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi) for policies and procedures that
provide for standards that result in systems being designed, developed, tested, maintained,
1449

As noted above, the Commission is doubling its estimate of the burden for staff of SCI
entities. 105 hours × 2 = 210 hours. 210 hours ÷ 5 × 6 = 252 hours to establish policies
and procedures that contain six elements, as opposed to the five in the SCI Proposal. The
252 burden hours include 96 hours by a Compliance Manager, 96 hours by an Attorney,
30 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 30 hours by an Operations Specialist. This
burden hour allocation is based on the allocation in the SCI Proposal. See Proposing
Release, supra note 13, at 18146. As noted above, as compared to the proposal, the
Commission is estimating an additional 20 hours by a Chief Compliance Officer and 10
hours by a Director of Compliance to reflect the views of commenters that compliance
with the proposed policies and procedures requirements would require greater senior
management involvement. See supra notes 1440-1441 and accompanying text. 252
hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 20 hours + Director of Compliance at 10 hours =
282 hours.

1450

282 hours × 30 SCI entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program = 8,460
hours.

1451

As noted above, the Commission is doubling its estimate of the burden for staff of SCI
entities. 30 hours × 2 = 60 hours. 60 hours ÷ 5 × 6 = 72 hours to review and update
policies and procedures that contain six elements, as opposed to the five in the SCI
Proposal. The 72 burden hours include 28 hours by a Compliance Manager, 28 hours by
an Attorney, 8 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 8 hours by an Operations
Specialist. As compared to the proposal, the Commission is additionally allocating
burden hours to Senior Systems Analysts and Operations Specialists. Also, as noted
above, as compared to the proposal, the Commission is estimating an additional 10 hours
by a Chief Compliance Officer and 5 hours by a Director of Compliance to reflect the
views of commenters that compliance with the proposed policies and procedures
requirements would require greater senior management involvement. See supra notes
1440-1441 and accompanying text. 72 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 10 hours +
Director of Compliance at 5 hours = 87 hours.

1452

87 hours × 30 SCI entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program = 2,610 hours.

481

operated, and surveilled in a manner that facilitates the successful collection, processing, and
dissemination of market data, the Commission estimates that each SCI entity would spend 160
hours initially, 1453 or 7,040 hours for all SCI entities. 1454 The Commission estimates that each
SCI entity would spend 145 hours annually, 1455 or 6,380 hours annually for all SCI entities. 1456
As noted above, one commenter argued that, given the rates charged by large law firms
and consulting firms, an estimate of $100,000 is more appropriate for the cost of outsourcing

1453

This estimate includes 130 hours by staff of an SCI entity, as estimated in the SCI
Proposal, and 30 hours by senior management. The 130 burden hours include 30 hours
by a Compliance Attorney and 100 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst. See Proposing
Release, supra note 13, at 18146. This burden hour allocation is based on the allocation
in the SCI Proposal. See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18146. As noted above, as
compared to the proposal, the Commission is estimating an additional 20 hours by a
Chief Compliance Officer and 10 hours by a Director of Compliance to reflect the views
of commenters that compliance with the proposed policies and procedures requirements
would require greater senior management involvement. See supra notes 1440-1441 and
accompanying text. 130 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 20 hours + Director of
Compliance at 10 hours = 160 hours. Unlike the burden estimates for complying with the
rest of Rule 1001(a), the Commission does not believe it would be appropriate to double
its proposed 130 hour staff burden estimate for Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi). Based on
Commission staff experience, the Commission believes that these policies and procedures
would not be so complex as to result in doubling the proposed burden estimate. The
Commission also notes that the burden estimate for Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi) is already
significantly higher than the estimated burden for the other individual policies and
procedures required under Rule 1001(a)(2). In particular, the Commission estimates 160
hours for this one provision and 534 hours in total for the six other provisions of Rule
1001(a)(2) for non-ARP participants (which results in approximately 89 hours for each of
those six other provisions).

1454

160 hours × 44 SCI entities = 7,040 hours.

1455

This estimate includes 130 hours by staff of an SCI entity, as estimated in the SCI
Proposal, and 15 hours by senior management. The 130 burden hours include 30 hours
by a Compliance Attorney and 100 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst. See Proposing
Release, supra note 13, at 18146. 130 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 10 hours +
Director of Compliance at 5 hours = 145 hours.

1456

145 hours × 44 SCI entities = 6,380 hours.

482

under proposed Rule 1000(b)(1). 1457 After considering the view of this commenter and because
the Commission is increasing its estimated burden hours for compliance with Rule 1001(a), the
Commission is similarly increasing its estimate of the outsourcing cost for complying with Rule
1001(a). In particular, because the Commission doubled the non-senior staff burden estimate for
Rule 1001(a) in response to comments that the Commission underestimated the burden in the
proposal, the Commission believes it is appropriate to similarly double its estimate of the
outsourcing cost for complying with Rule 1001(a). As noted above in the context of the burden
estimate for Rule 1001(a), the Commission believes that, by doubling its outsourcing cost
estimate, the Commission has incorporated the views of commenters that the Commission
underestimated the burden, and at the same time accounted for changes to the proposal that
reduce the burden from the SCI Proposal. Further, the Commission acknowledges that some SCI
entities may have more complex systems and policies and procedures, may outsource more of
the work associated with the policies and procedures, 1458 or may outsource the work to more
expensive law firms and consulting firms than others. Therefore, the Commission believes that
while some SCI entities may incur more outsourcing cost than the Commission’s estimate, other
SCI entities may incur less than the Commission’s estimate. The Commission does not believe
that a commenter’s $100,000 estimate is more appropriate given that there will be differences
among SCI entities in the extent of outsourcing and in the rates of outside firms.

1457

See supra note 1427 and accompanying text. This commenter also argued that the
Commission mistakenly assumed that SCI entities would not seek guidance from outside
consultants or attorneys. See supra note 1426 and accompanying text. However, the
Commission did account for outsourcing cost in the SCI Proposal and does so here, as
well.

1458

For example, smaller SCI entities may not have the same level of in-house expertise as
larger SCI entities.

483

Because Rule 1001(a) requires an additional element to be included in the policies and
procedures as compared to proposed Rule 1000(b)(1) (i.e., monitoring of systems to identify SCI
events), the Commission now estimates that on average, each SCI entity would seek outside legal
and/or consulting services in the initial preparation of the policies and procedures at a cost of
approximately $47,000, 1459 or $2,068,000 for all SCI entities. 1460
With respect to the view of a commenter that the Commission underestimated the
paperwork burden under proposed Rule 1000(b)(2) because that rule is extremely extensive, 1461
the Commission notes that, as adopted, Rule 1001(b) requires policies and procedures to be
reasonably designed to ensure, in part, that SCI systems “operate in a manner that complies with
the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.” As adopted, this rule no longer refers to
compliance with “the federal securities laws and rules and regulations thereunder” and operation
“in the manner intended.” Nevertheless, as noted above, after considering the views of
commenters that the Commission underestimated the paperwork burden under proposed Rule
1000(b)(2), the Commission is doubling its estimates from the proposal (which were focused on
the burden for SCI entity staff), and is increasing its estimates to account for senior management
review of the policies and procedures.

1459

As noted above, the Commission is doubling its estimate of the outsourcing cost for SCI
entities. $20,000 × 2 = $40,000. The Commission is also revising this cost estimate to
reflect that Rule 1001(a) requires seven specific elements to be included in the policies
and procedures, as opposed to the six in the proposed rule. $40,000 ÷ 6 × 7 = $46,667.

1460

$47,000 × 44 SCI entities = $2,068,000.

1461

See supra note 1416.

484

The Commission now estimates that each SCI entity would spend 270 hours initially to
design the systems compliance policies and procedures, 1462 or 11,880 hours for all SCI
entities. 1463 The Commission estimates that each SCI SRO would spend approximately 175
hours annually to review and update such policies and procedures, 1464 or 4,725 hours for all SCI
SROs. 1465 The Commission estimates that each SCI entity that is not an SRO would spend
approximately 95 hours to review and update such policies and procedures, 1466 or 1,615 hours for
all such SCI entities. 1467

1462

As noted above, the Commission is doubling its estimate of the burden for staff of SCI
entities. 180 hours × 2 = 360 hours. 360 hours ÷ 6 × 4 = 240 hours to establish policies
and procedures that contain four elements at a minimum, as opposed to the six in the SCI
Proposal. The 240 burden hours include 40 hours by a Compliance Attorney and 200
hours by a Senior Systems Analyst. This burden hour allocation is based on the
allocation in the SCI Proposal. See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18146. As
noted above, as compared to the proposal, the Commission is estimating an additional 20
hours by a Chief Compliance Officer and 10 hours by a Director of Compliance to reflect
the views of commenters that compliance with the proposed policies and procedures
requirements would require greater senior management involvement. See supra notes
1440-1441 and accompanying text. 240 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 20 hours +
Director of Compliance at 10 hours = 270 hours.

1463

270 hours × 44 SCI entities = 11,880 hours.

1464

As noted above, the Commission is doubling its estimate of the burden for staff of SCI
entities. 120 hours × 2 = 240 hours. 240 hours ÷ 6 × 4 = 160 hours to review and update
policies and procedures that contain four elements at a minimum, as opposed to the six in
the SCI Proposal. The 160 burden hours include 26 hours by a Compliance Attorney and
134 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst. This burden hour allocation is based on the
allocation in the SCI Proposal. See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18146. As
noted above, as compared to the proposal, the Commission is estimating an additional 10
hours by a Chief Compliance Officer and 5 hours by a Director of Compliance to reflect
the views of commenters that compliance with the proposed policies and procedures
requirements would require greater senior management involvement. See supra notes
1440-1441 and accompanying text. 160 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 10 hours +
Director of Compliance at 5 hours = 175 hours.

1465

175 hours × 27 SCI SROs = 4,725 hours.

1466

As noted above, the Commission is doubling its estimate of the burden for staff of SCI
entities. 60 hours × 2 = 120 hours. 120 hours ÷ 6 × 4 = 80 hours to review and update
485

As noted above, similar to the burden estimates for proposed Rule 1000(b)(1), one
commenter argued that the Commission underestimated the outsourcing cost under proposed
Rule 1000(b)(2). 1468 Similar to the discussion above related to Rule 1001(a), 1469 after
considering the view of this commenter and because the Commission is increasing its estimated
burden hours for compliance with Rule 1001(b), the Commission is doubling its estimate of the
outsourcing cost for complying with Rule 1001(b). The Commission now estimates that on
average, each SCI entity would seek outside legal and/or consulting services in the initial
preparation of the policies and procedures at a cost of approximately $27,000, 1470 or $1,188,000
for all SCI entities. 1471
Adopted Rules 1001(a)(3) and (b)(3) explicitly require each SCI entity to periodically
review the effectiveness of the policies and procedures required by Rules 1001(a) and (b),
respectively, and to take prompt action to remedy deficiencies in such policies and procedures.
The Commission notes that the paperwork burden related to the review of the policies and

policies and procedures that contain four elements at a minimum, as opposed to the six in
the SCI Proposal. The 80 burden hours include 14 hours by a Compliance Attorney and
66 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst. This burden hour allocation is based on the
allocation in the SCI Proposal. See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18146. 80 hours
+ Chief Compliance Officer at 10 hours + Director of Compliance at 5 hours = 95 hours.
1467

95 hours × 17 non-SRO SCI entities = 1,615 hours.

1468

See supra note 1428 and accompanying text.

1469

See supra notes 1457-1458 and accompanying text.

1470

As noted above, the Commission is doubling its estimate of the outsourcing cost for SCI
entities. $20,000 × 2 = $40,000. The Commission is also revising this cost estimate to
reflect that Rule 1001(b) will result in the inclusion of at least four elements in the
policies and procedures, as opposed to the six in the proposed rule. $40,000 ÷ 6 × 4 =
$26,667.

1471

$27,000 × 44 SCI entities = $1,188,000.

486

procedures, and remedying deficiencies in policies and procedures, is included in the estimated
annual ongoing burden of Rules 1001(a) and (b).
Rule 1001(c)(1), which was not included in the proposal, requires each SCI entity to
establish, maintain, and enforce reasonably designed written policies and procedures that include
the criteria for identifying responsible SCI personnel, the designation and documentation of
responsible SCI personnel, 1472 and escalation procedures to quickly inform responsible SCI
personnel of potential SCI events. Like adopted Rules 1001(a)(3) and (b)(3), Rule 1001(c)
requires each SCI entity periodically to review the effectiveness of these policies and procedures
and to take prompt action to remedy deficiencies in policies and procedures. The Commission
estimates that each SCI entity would require 114 hours initially to establish the criteria for
identifying responsible SCI personnel and the escalation procedures, 1473 or 5,016 hours for all
1472

The paperwork burden associated with the documentation of responsible SCI personnel is
included in the Commission’s estimate of the recordkeeping burden, as discussed in
Section V.D.4 below.

1473

This estimate is based on the Commission’s burden estimate for Rule 1001(a), because
Rule 1001(a) and Rule 1001(c) both require policies and procedures or processes.
Because Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)) requires the establishment of six
policies and procedures at a minimum and Rule 1001(c) requires the establishment of two
policies and procedures, the Commission estimates that the initial burden to draft the
policies and procedures required by Rule 1001(c) is one-third of the initial burden to draft
the policies and procedures required by Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)).
Further, the Commission believes that, even though Rule 1001(c) will impose paperwork
burdens on SCI entities, most, if not all, SCI entities, regardless of whether they
participate in the ARP Inspection Program, already have some processes in place for the
designation of persons responsible for particular systems and escalation procedures.
Therefore, the Commission believes it is appropriate to assume a 50% baseline for all
SCI entities (as compared to the burden estimate for Rule 1001(a) for SCI entities that do
not participate in the ARP Inspection Program) in terms of the staff burden for
compliance with Rule 1001(c). 252 hours ÷ 3 = 84 hours. The 84 burden hours include
32 hours by a Compliance Manager, 32 hours by an Attorney, 10 hours by a Senior
Systems Analyst, and 10 hours by an Operations Specialist. This burden hour allocation
is based on the allocation for Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). See supra
note 1443. The Commission also estimates that a Chief Compliance Officer will spend
487

SCI entities. 1474 The Commission also estimates that each SCI entities would require 39 hours
annually to review and update the criteria and the escalation procedures, 1475 or 1,716 hours for
all SCI entities. 1476 The Commission believes that SCI entities will internally establish and
maintain the policies and procedures required by Rule 1001(c) because these policies and
procedures relate to internal personnel designations and internal processes.
b.

Mandate Participation in Certain Testing

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated that each SCI entity (other than plan
processors) would spend approximately 130 hours initially to meet the requirements of proposed
20 hours and a Director of Compliance will spend 10 hours reviewing the policies and
procedures required by Rule 1001(c). 84 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 20 hours +
Director of Compliance at 10 hours = 114 hours.
The Commission notes that, in the SCI Proposal, it also estimated the burden hours for
other policies and procedures based on its burden estimate under proposed Rule
1000(b)(1). See, e.g., Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18152, n. 442. One
commenter stated that it was appropriate to base the burden estimate for proposed Rule
1000(b)(3), which would likely result in SCI entities revising their policies, on the burden
estimate under proposed Rule 1000(b)(1). See infra note 1700 and accompanying text.
1474

114 hours × 44 SCI entities = 5,016 hours.

1475

This estimate is based on the Commission’s burden estimate for Rule 1001(a), because
Rule 1001(a) and Rule 1001(c) both require policies and procedures or processes.
Because Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)) requires the maintenance of six
policies and procedures at a minimum and Rule 1001(c) requires the maintenance of two
policies and procedures, the Commission estimates that the ongoing staff burden under
Rule 1001(c) is one-third of the ongoing staff burden under Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule
1001(a)(2)(vi)). As noted above, the Commission believes it is appropriate to assume a
50% baseline for all SCI entities in terms of the staff burden for compliance with Rule
1001(c). 72 hours ÷ 3 = 24 hours. The 24 burden hours include 9.5 hours by a
Compliance Manager, 9.5 hours by an Attorney, 2.5 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst,
and 2.5 hours by an Operations Specialist. This burden hour allocation is based on the
allocation for Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). See supra note 1445. The
Commission also estimates that a Chief Compliance Officer will spend 10 hours and a
Director of Compliance will spend 5 hours reviewing the policies and procedures
required by Rule 1001(c). 24 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 10 hours + Director of
Compliance at 5 hours = 39 hours.

1476

39 hours × 44 SCI entities = 1,716 hours.

488

Rules 1000(b)(9)(i) and (ii) (i.e., the requirement to mandate participation by designated
members or participants in testing and the requirement that an SCI entity coordinate required
testing with other SCI entities). 1477 The 130-hour estimate included 35 hours to write a proposed
rule, or revise a membership/subscriber agreement or participant agreement to establish the
participation requirement for designated members or participants. 1478 It also included 95 hours
of follow-up work (e.g., notice and schedule coordination) to ensure implementation. 1479 The
Commission estimated that each SCI entity (other than plan processors) would spend
approximately 95 hours annually to comply with proposed Rules 1000(b)(9)(i) and (ii). 1480
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated that each SCI entity (other than plan
processors) would spend approximately 35 hours initially to meet the requirements of proposed
Rule 1000(b)(9)(iii) (i.e., establishing standards for designating members or participants and
filing such standards with the Commission, and determining, compiling, and submitting the list
of designated members or participants). 1481 The Commission estimated that each SCI entity

1477

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18147.

1478

See id. The 35 burden hours included 10 hours by a Compliance Manager, 15 hours by
an Attorney, and 10 hours by a Compliance Clerk. See id. In establishing this estimate,
the Commission considered its estimate of the burden for an SRO to file an average
proposed rule change under Rule 19b-4. See id. at 18147, n. 389.

1479

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18147. The 95 burden hours included 10 hours
by a Compliance Manager, 15 hours by an Attorney, and 70 hours by an Operations
Specialist. See id.

1480

See id. The 95 burden hours included 10 hours by a Compliance Manager, 15 hours by
an Attorney, and 70 hours by an Operations Specialist. See id. The Commission noted
that, although the initial burden included 35 hours to write a proposed rule, revise an
agreement, or amend an SCI Plan, the Commission did not believe the 35-hour burden
would be applicable on an ongoing basis. See id. at 18147, n. 393.

1481

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18148. The 35 burden hours included 10 hours
by a Compliance Manager, 15 hours by an Attorney, and 10 hours by a Compliance
Clerk. See id. In establishing this estimate, the Commission considered its estimate of
489

(other than plan processors) would spend approximately 3 hours annually to comply with
proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)(iii) (i.e., to review the designation standards to ensure that they remain
up-to-date and to prepare any necessary amendments, to review the list of designated members
or participants, and to update prior Commission notifications with respect to standards for
designation and the list of designees). 1482 The Commission also estimated that all SCI entities,
other than plan processors, would conduct the work associated with proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)
internally. 1483
For plan processors, the Commission estimated that proposed Rules 1000(b)(9)(i) and (ii)
would carry an initial cost of $52,000 per plan processor 1484 and an annual cost of $38,000 per
plan processor. 1485 The Commission also estimated that proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)(iii) would
carry an initial cost of $14,000 per plan processor 1486 and an annual cost of $1,200 per plan
processor. 1487
With respect to the Commission’s estimate of the burdens under proposed Rule
1000(b)(9), one commenter noted that the estimate was effectively limited to ministerial tasks of
producing a rule filing and of undertaking follow-up work in connection with implementation
the burden for an SRO to file an average proposed rule filing under Rule 19b-4. See id.
at 18148, n. 397.
1482

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18148. The 3 burden hours included 1.5 hours
by a Compliance Manager and 1.5 hours by an Attorney. See id. In establishing this
estimate, the Commission has considered its estimate of the burden for an SRO to amend
a Form 19b-4 rule filing. See id. at 18148, n. 401.

1483

See id. at 18145.

1484

130 hours × $400 per hour for outside legal service = $52,000. See Proposing Release,
supra note 13, at 18147.

1485

95 hours × $400 per hour for outside legal service = $38,000. See id.

1486

35 hours × $400 per hour for outside legal service = $14,000. See id. at 18148.

1487

3 hours × $400 per hour for outside legal service = $1,200. See id.

490

and does not take into account significant activities relating to the SRO rule change process (e.g.,
board or directors briefing and deliberation, potential notice for comment, responses to comment
letters received on such notice, responses to comment letters received by the Commission on a
rule filing, etc.) and understates the activities necessary to implement testing with industry
participants. 1488 Another commenter argued that it has contractual relationships with thousands
of clients, and contract negotiations always require a great deal of time and commitment from its
legal personnel. 1489 This commenter also noted that while a certain significant percentage of its
clients may sign the contracts without any negotiation, many do not. 1490 According to this
commenter, the requirements under proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) would create for it many
thousands of burden hours because it would require the commenter to re-negotiate contracts with
“the many thousands of clients it has already signed up.” 1491
One commenter noted that the requirements under proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) would not
be conducive to outsourcing. 1492
As discussed in detail above in Section IV.B.6, the Commission is adopting proposed
Rule 1000(b)(9) as Rule 1004, with certain modifications. Rule 1004 requires each SCI entity to
establish standards for the designation of certain members or participants for business continuity
and disaster recovery plan testing, to designate members or participants in accordance with these
standards, to require participation by designated members or participants in such testing at least
1488

See MSRB Letter at 38.

1489

See Omgeo Letter at 46. This commenter noted that its relationships with clients are
often based on negotiated agreements and that clients do not automatically agree to all
terms stated in the standard contract. See id. at 45.

1490

See id. at 46.

1491

See id.

1492

See MSRB Letter at 38.

491

annually, and to coordinate such testing on an industry- or sector-wide basis with other SCI
entities. However, adopted Rule 1004 does not require an SCI entity to notify and update the
Commission of its designated members or participants and its standards for designation on Form
SCI, as proposed.
Considering commenters’ view that the Commission had underestimated the burden
hours associated with proposed Rule 1000(b)(9), the Commission now estimates that the
requirements under Rules 1004(a) (i.e., establishment of standards for the designation of
members and participants) and (c) (i.e., coordination of testing on an industry- or sector-wide
basis) will initially require 360 hours for each SCI entity that is not a plan processor (e.g.,
establishing designation criteria by writing a proposed rule; revising a membership/subscriber
agreement or participant agreement; providing notice to members or participants; scheduling the
coordinated testing), 1493 or 15,120 hours for all such SCI entities. 1494 Further, the Commission

1493

This estimate includes 90 hours to comply with Rule 1004(a) and 270 hours to comply
with Rule 1004(c). The 90 hours include 30 hours by an Attorney, 20 hours by a
Compliance Manager, 10 hours by an Assistant General Counsel, 6 hours by a Chief
Compliance Officer, 4 hours by a Director of Compliance, and 20 hours by a Senior
Operations Manager. The Commission is substantially increasing the estimated burden
over that estimated for proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)(i), and is estimating an additional 10
hours by an Assistant General Counsel, 6 hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, 4 hours
by a Director of Compliance, and 20 hours by a Senior Operations Manager to reflect
senior management review of the standards for designation. With respect to the comment
that the estimates in the proposal did not take into account significant activities relating to
the SRO rule change process, the Commission notes that the paperwork burden
associated with SRO rule filings are included as part of the burden associated with Rule
19b-4. See supra note 1488 and accompanying text. The 270 hours include 30 hours by
an Attorney, 20 hours by a Compliance Manager, 10 hours by an Assistant General
Counsel, 20 hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, 10 hours by a Director of Compliance,
140 hours by an Operations Specialist, and 40 hours by a Senior Operations Manager.
The Commission is substantially increasing the estimated burden over that estimated for
proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)(ii), and is estimating an additional 10 hours by an Assistant
General Counsel, 20 hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, 10 hours by a Director of
Compliance, and 40 hours by a Senior Operations Manager, in response to the view of a
492

estimates that the requirements under Rules 1004(a) and (c) will require 135 hours annually for
each SCI entity that is not a plan processor, 1495 or 5,670 hours for all such SCI entities. 1496 The
Commission continues to believe that SCI entities (other than plan processors) would handle
internally the work associated with the requirements of Rule 1004. 1497
With respect to a commenter’s statement that it has contractual relationships with
thousands of clients and that proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) would create many thousands of burden
hours, 1498 the Commission notes that adoption of a more focused designation requirement is
likely to result in a smaller number of SCI entity members or participants being designated for
participation in testing as compared to the SCI Proposal. Specifically, as adopted, Rule 1004(a)
requires an SCI entity to designate “members or participants that the SCI entity reasonably

commenter that the estimates in the SCI Proposal underestimated the activities necessary
to implement testing with industry participants. See supra note 1488 and accompanying
text. The estimate of 360 hours includes the burden for designating members or
participants for testing, as required by Rule 1004(b).
1494

360 hours × 42 SCI entities other than plan processors = 15,120 hours.

1495

As noted in the SCI Proposal, the Commission does not believe that there would be
significant annual burden under Rule 1004(a), as the Commission believes that the
designation standards will likely not change substantially on an annual basis. See
Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18147, n. 393. The 135 hours include 15 hours by
an Attorney, 10 hours by a Compliance Manager, 5 hours by an Assistant General
Counsel, 10 hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, 5 hours by a Director of Compliance,
70 hours by an Operations Specialist, and 20 hours by a Senior Operations Manager. As
compared to the estimated ongoing burden for proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)(ii), the
Commission is estimating an additional 5 hours by an Assistant General Counsel, 10
hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, 5 hours by a Director of Compliance, and 20 hours
by a Senior Operations Manager, consistent with the Commission’s estimate for the
initial burden for Rule 1004.

1496

135 hours × 42 SCI entities other than plan processors = 5,670 hours.

1497

See supra note 1492 (discussing a commenter’s view that the requirements under
proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) would not be conducive to outsourcing).

1498

See supra notes 1489-1491 and accompanying text.

493

determines are, taken as a whole, the minimum necessary for the maintenance of fair and orderly
markets” in the event of the activation of the business continuity and disaster recovery plans. On
the other hand, proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) required participation by members or participants the
SCI entity deemed necessary “for the maintenance of fair and orderly markets in the event of the
activation of its business continuity and disaster recovery plans.” 1499 The Commission believes
that SCI entities have an incentive to limit the imposition of the cost and burden associated with
testing to the minimum necessary to comply with the rule, and it also believes that, given the
option, most SCI entities would, in the exercise of reasonable discretion, prefer to designate few
members or participants to participate in testing, than to designate more. Thus, even if an SCI
entity individually negotiates contract modifications with certain designated members or
participants, the Commission believes that the burden would be substantially less than suggested
by the commenter. 1500 Moreover, as noted above, taking into account commenters’ view that the
Commission underestimated the burden for proposed Rule 1000(b)(9), the Commission
increased its estimate for initial burden hours from 130 hours for the proposed rule to 360 hours

1499

The Commission notes that, because Rule 1004 would not require all members or
participants of an SCI entity to participate in business continuity and disaster recovery
plan testing, Rule 1004 will not affect all of an SCI entity’s contractual relationships with
clients or members or participants. Further, the Commission notes that its estimated
burden for compliance with Rule 1004 is intended to reflect the average burden for all
SCI entities (other than plan processors).

1500

As discussed in the Economic Analysis, the Commission estimates that each SCI entity
would designate an average of 40 members or participants to participate in the necessary
testing. See infra note 2065. Therefore, an SCI entity will not be required to re-negotiate
contracts with “the many thousands of clients it has already signed up.” See supra note
1491 and accompanying text. Moreover, this commenter recognized that a significant
percentage of its clients may sign the contracts without any negotiation. See supra note
1491 and accompanying text. As a result, the Commission does not expect that an SCI
entity will need to negotiate with all of the estimated 40 members or participants.

494

for adopted Rule 1004. The average burden estimate associated with Rule 1004 applies to SCI
entities that would need to negotiate contract modifications with members or participants.
Based on its experience with plan processors, the Commission continues to believe that
plan processors will outsource the work related to compliance with Rule 1004. The Commission
estimates that Rule 1004 will carry an initial cost of $144,000 per plan processor, 1501 or $288,000
for all plan processors. 1502 The Commission estimates that Rule 1004 will carry an annual cost
of $54,000 per plan processor, 1503 or $108,000 for all plan processors. 1504
2.

Notification, Dissemination, and Reporting Requirements for SCI
Entities

The rules under Regulation SCI that would require an SCI entity to notify the
Commission of SCI events, disseminate information regarding certain SCI events, and notify the
Commission of certain systems changes are discussed more fully in Sections IV.B.3.c, IV.B.3.d,
and IV.B.4 above.
a.

Commission Notification of SCI Events

1501

360 hours × $400 per hour for outside legal service = $144,000. This is based on an
estimated $400 per hour cost for outside legal services. This is the same estimate used by
the Commission for these services in the “Exemptions for Advisers to Venture Capital
Funds, Private Fund Advisers with Less Than $150 Million Under Management, and
Foreign Private Advisers” final rule: SEC Release No. IA-3222 (June 22, 2011); 76 FR
39646 (July 6, 2011).

1502

$144,000 × 2 plan processors = $288,000.

1503

135 hours × $400 per hour for outside legal service = $54,000. The Commission
increased from its estimate in the proposal the estimated hours for the outsourced work
for plan processors to be equivalent to the number of burden hours it estimated for an SCI
entity that is not a plan processor (i.e., increasing the initial burden estimate from 130
hours to 360 hours and the annual burden estimate from 95 to 135 hours).

1504

$54,000 × 2 plan processors = $108,000.

495

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated that each SCI entity would experience an
average of 40 immediate notification SCI events 1505 per year (i.e., 40 notifications under
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i)), and that one-fourth of the notifications under proposed Rule
1000(b)(4)(i) would be in writing (i.e., 10 written notifications and 30 oral notifications). 1506
The Commission estimated that each written notification would require 0.5 hours to prepare and
submit to the Commission. 1507 The Commission also estimated that each SCI entity would
experience an average of 65 SCI events each year and therefore would submit 65 Commission
notifications each year under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii). 1508 The Commission estimated that
each such notification would require an average of 20 burden hours. 1509 In addition, the
Commission estimated that on average, each SCI entity would submit 5 updates per year under
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iii), and that each update would require an average of 3 burden
hours. 1510 Finally, the Commission estimated that SCI entities would handle internally the work
associated with the notification requirement under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4). 1511

1505

Immediate notification SCI events included systems disruptions that an SCI entity
reasonably estimated would have a material impact on its operations or on market
participants, all systems compliance issues, and all systems intrusions.

1506

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18148.

1507

See id. The 0.5 burden hour would be spent by an Attorney. See id. at 18149.

1508

See id. at 18148-49.

1509

See id. at 18149. The 20 burden hours included 10 hours by an Attorney and 10 hours by
a Compliance Manager. See id. This estimate was based on Commission staff’s
experience with the ARP Inspection Program. In determining this estimate, the
Commission also considered its estimate of the burden to complete a Form 19b-4 filing,
although the Commission noted that, unlike a Form 19b-4 filing, the information
contained in Form SCI would only be factual. See id. at 18149, n. 410.

1510

See id. at 18149. The 3 burden hours included 1.5 hours by an Attorney and 1.5 hours by
a Compliance Manager. See id. This estimate was based on Commission staff’s
experience with the ARP Inspection Program. In determining this estimate, the
496

Several commenters stated that the Commission underestimated the number of SCI
events. 1512 One commenter stated that, because the proposed definition of SCI event was broad
and would include minor or immaterial events, it is likely that each SCI entity could have
hundreds if not thousands of SCI events on an annual basis. 1513 Similarly, another commenter
stated that each SCI entity could be required to report hundreds of systems disruption events
each year, although the vast majority of such events would be virtually unnoticed by market
participants. 1514 Another commenter stated that, based on its best reading of the more expansive
definitions of disruptions and intrusions, a more accurate estimate could be between 200 to 500
events per year per exchange. 1515 Several commenters noted that the Commission significantly
underestimated the number of updates that would be required under Rule 1000(b)(4)(iii). 1516

Commission also considered its estimate of the burden for an SRO to amend a Form 19b4. See id. at 18149, n. 410.
1511

See id. at 18148-49, n. 408, n. 411, and n. 413.

1512

See Omgeo Letter at 35; BATS Letter at 11; Joint SRO Letter at 18; OTC Markets Letter
at 6; and NYSE Letter at 18. However, commenters did not specify estimates for the
number of systems compliance issues an SCI entity would experience each year.

1513

See Omgeo Letter at 35. According to this commenter, many of these SCI events would
require written notification even though the vast majority of them would be minor and
immaterial. See id.

1514

See BATS Letter at 11. This commenter also noted that the Commission did not break
down the anticipated reportable events into systems disruptions, systems intrusions, and
systems compliance issues. See id.

1515

See NYSE Letter at 18. See also FINRA Letter at 18, n. 32 (stating that depending on the
interpretation of what constitutes a systems intrusion, it would be required to notify the
Commission either: several times a day under the broadest interpretation; three or four
times per month under a narrower interpretation; or one or two times per year if limited to
intrusions where there is a material impact).

1516

See Joint SRO Letter at 19; NYSE Letter at 24 (noting that it is not realistic, with respect
to over 90% of SCI events, that all required activity is complete and reportable on Form
SCI within 24 hours). See also FINRA Letter at 19 (noting that some complex outages
can take up to several days to triage, isolate, and begin to resolve, and that based on its
497

With respect to the Commission’s estimate of the burden for Commission notification
generally, one commenter noted that preparation of Form SCI will take a fair amount of time, not
just to compile information about the SCI event, but also to review and edit the submission. 1517
According to this commenter, further impediments to timely reporting may arise where an issue
requires cross-department coordination or coordination with a joint facility or RSA client. 1518
This commenter stated that the Commission notification process will take even more time where
a third party’s technical and data personnel are relied on to provide initial drafts or where an
RSA client requests that it have the opportunity to review all written notices before they are
submitted. 1519 Another commenter noted that senior management of SCI entities would want an
SCI event to be investigated before it is reported to the Commission.1520 This commenter also
noted that any responsible Chief Administrative Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief
Operations Officer, Chief Compliance Officer, Chief Information Security Officer, General
Counsel, and compliance attorneys and officers would want to review any report on an SCI event

experience with ARP outage reporting, it can take several days to confirm the root cause
of an outage and even longer to determine the appropriate resolution and how long it will
take to complete).
1517

See FINRA Letter at 19. Similarly, another commenter noted that notifications to the
Commission for SCI events and material systems changes would be considered a serious
matter, and a diligent and properly considered notification would require the time and
effort of numerous staff in different departments. See UBS Letter at 6.

1518

See FINRA Letter at 19.

1519

See id.

1520

See Omgeo Letter at 35.

498

prior to submission to the Commission.1521 In addition, this commenter noted that the SCI entity
would need to engage outside counsel and possibly other parties to review such reports. 1522
With respect to the Commission’s estimate of the burden for written Commission
notification under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i), one commenter noted that considerable amounts
of activities may be necessary to gather the information needed, to have appropriate
confirmations from persons with knowledge and authority with respect to the applicable SCI
system, to provide for senior management review where appropriate, and to otherwise be in a
position to draft the notification. 1523 Another commenter noted that Commission notification
required by proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i) would require substantive input from personnel outside
of the legal and compliance departments, including IT analysts and managers as well as impacted
business analysts and managers. 1524 This commenter estimated that each notification under
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i) would require 12 hours. 1525 This commenter also noted that the
Commission erroneously assumed that verbal notifications under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i)
would not consume the time of any employee. 1526
With respect to the estimated burden under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii), one commenter
noted that the estimate did not take into account the considerable amounts of activities to be
undertaken by other personnel, including persons with knowledge and authority with respect to
1521

See id.

1522

See id. at 35-36. This commenter also noted that the Commission’s estimated cost for
consulting outside experts is too low. See id. at 35, n. 69.

1523

See MSRB Letter at 33.

1524

See UBS Letter at 6. This commenter expressed the same concern with respect to
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii). See id.

1525

See id.

1526

See id.

499

the applicable SCI system and the SCI event as well as senior management where appropriate, in
order to collect and assess the appropriate information and to properly inform the attorney and
compliance manager of such information in order to allow them to produce an accurate
notification in compliance with proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii). 1527 This commenter had similar
concerns with the burden estimates for proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iii). 1528 Another commenter
noted that, with respect to proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii), no provision was made for the time
burden that would be placed on technology personnel in the notification process. 1529 Similarly,
one commenter noted that the 20-hour burden estimate failed to take into account technology
staff and business operations personnel who spend considerable time gathering facts and
circumstances of a systems issue. 1530 Another commenter estimated that each report under
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii) will require approximately 5 hours of senior management time
(including review and discussions between the Chief Administrative Officer, the Chief
Compliance Officer, the Chief Information Officer, the Chief Operating Officer, and the General
Counsel). 1531 In addition, this commenter estimated that middle managers from its Compliance,
Legal, Technology, Product, and Information Security functions would spend on average

1527

See MSRB Letter at 33.

1528

See id. at 33-34.

1529

See Joint SRO Letter at 18. This commenter also opined that, in other sections, the
Commission either incorrectly assumes that no legal or outside counsel would be used, or
significantly underestimates the amount of legal or outside counsel expenses. See id. at
18-19.

1530

See OCC Letter at 12. See also NYSE Letter at 18 and 34 (stating that a significant
number of full time staff, including legal, compliance, technical, and operations staff,
would be required to comply with the Commission notification process under proposed
Rule 1000(b)(4), and that no estimate is provided for a technology staff member under
Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii)).

1531

See Omgeo Letter at 36.

500

approximately 31 hours per report. 1532 Further, this commenter estimated that associates from
Compliance, Legal, Technology, Product, and Information Security functions would spend
approximately 53.5 hours per report. 1533 With respect to the burden estimates for proposed Rule
1000(b)(4)(iii), this commenter believed that proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iii) could conceivably
require it to update the Commission approximately half of the time it files Form SCI. 1534
According to this commenter, each update would result in 1 hour of senior management time, 17
hours of middle management time, and 9 hours of associate time. 1535
One commenter stated its belief that none of the activities arising under proposed Rule
1000(b)(4) would be conducive to outsourcing. 1536
As discussed above in Section IV.B.3.c, the Commission is adopting the Commission
notification requirements in Rule 1002(b), with certain modifications from the proposal. As
adopted, the Commission notification requirements under Rules 1002(b)(1)-(4) do not apply to
SCI events that had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have, no or a de minimis
impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants. 1537 Rather, each SCI entity is
required to make, keep, and preserve records relating to all such SCI events, and submit quarterly
reports to the Commission regarding such de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis
systems intrusions. 1538

1532

See id.

1533

See id.

1534

See id.

1535

See id.

1536

See MSRB Letter at 34-35.

1537

See Rule 1002(b)(5).

1538

See id.

501

Rule 1002(b)(1), similar to the proposal, requires immediate Commission notification
upon any responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has
occurred. Rule 1002(b)(2), similar to the proposal, requires a written Commission notification
within 24 hours of any responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that the
SCI event has occurred. Rule 1002(b)(2) also specifically states that the 24-hour report is
required to be made on a good faith, best efforts basis. In addition, the information required to
be disclosed to the Commission under Rule 1002(b)(2) is less comprehensive than as
proposed. 1539 Rule 1002(b)(3), similar to the proposal, requires SCI entities to provide updates
pertaining to an SCI event on a regular basis, or at such frequency as reasonably requested by a
representative of the Commission, until the event is resolved and the SCI entity’s investigation of
the event is closed. However, Rule 1002(b)(3), unlike the proposal, does not require these
updates to be in writing. Finally, Rule 1002(b)(4) includes requirements for SCI entities to
submit interim written notifications, as necessary, and final written notifications regarding SCI
events. 1540 Specifically, if an SCI event is resolved and the SCI entity’s investigation of the SCI
1539

For example, an SCI entity is not required to provide the Commission a detailed
description of the SCI event; a discussion of whether the SCI event is a dissemination
SCI event; a description of the SCI entity’s rules and/or governing documents, as
applicable, which relate to the SCI event; or an analysis of parties that may have
experienced a loss due to the SCI event.

1540

The written notification is required to include (i) a detailed description of: the SCI
entity’s assessment of the types and number of market participants affected by the SCI
event; the SCI entity’s assessment of the impact of the SCI event on the market; the steps
the SCI entity has taken, is taking, or plans to take, with respect to the SCI event; the time
the SCI event was resolved; the SCI entity’s rule(s) and/or governing document(s), as
applicable, that relate to the SCI event; and any other pertinent information known by the
SCI entity about the SCI event; (ii) a copy of any information disseminated pursuant to
Rule 1002(c) by the SCI entity to date regarding the SCI event to any of its members or
participants; and (iii) an analysis of parties that may have experienced a loss, whether
monetary or otherwise, due to the SCI event, the number of such parties, and an estimate
of the aggregate amount of such loss. The information required to be included in the
502

event is closed within 30 calendar days of the occurrence of the SCI event, then within five
business days after the resolution of the SCI event and closure of the investigation regarding the
SCI event, the SCI entity is required to submit a final written notification. If an SCI event is not
resolved or the SCI entity’s investigation of the SCI event is not closed within 30 calendar days
of the occurrence of the SCI event, then the SCI entity is required to submit an interim written
notification within 30 calendar days after the occurrence of the SCI event. Within five business
days after the resolution of such SCI event and closure of the investigation regarding such SCI
event, the SCI entity is required to submit a final written notification.
As noted above, some commenters expressed their view that the Commission
underestimated the number of SCI events because they considered the definition of SCI event to
be broad and would include minor or immaterial events. 1541 These commenters estimated
hundreds and even thousands of SCI events annually for each SCI entity, but noted that the
majority of such events would have no effect on market participants. 1542 As discussed above in
Section IV.B.3.c, the Commission notification requirements under adopted Rule 1002(b)(1)-(4)
do not apply to any SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have,
no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants. 1543 Rather,
each SCI entity would be required to keep records related to such events and submit quarterly
reports that only contain a summary description of such de minimis systems disruptions and de

Rule 1002(b)(4) notifications is similar to the information required under proposed Rule
1000(b)(4)(iv)(A), which was related to the proposed 24-hour Commission notification.
1541

See supra notes 1513-1515 and accompanying text.

1542

See id.

1543

See Rule 1002(b)(5).

503

minimis systems intrusions. 1544 Further, as noted above in Section IV.A, the Commission has
refined the definition of SCI systems and SCI events in various respects. 1545 Therefore, the
Commission does not believe that the number of SCI events subject to Rules 1002(b)(1)-(4)
would be substantially higher than the Commission’s estimate in the SCI Proposal.
After considering the views of commenters and in light of the more focused scope of the
immediate Commission notification requirement, the Commission now estimates that each SCI
entity will experience an average of 45 SCI events each year that are not de minimis SCI events,
resulting in 45 written notifications under Rule 1002(b)(2) and 45 written notifications under
Rule 1002(b)(4). The estimated 45 SCI events comprise 24 systems disruptions, 20 systems
compliance issues, and one systems intrusion. These estimates are derived in part from the
number of systems incidents reported to the Commission under the ARP Inspection Program and
the number of compliance-related issues reported to the Commission by SROs. 1546
In particular, the Commission notes that approximately 360 ARP incidents were reported
to the Commission in 2013 by 29 entities that participated in the ARP Inspection Program. 1547

1544

See id.

1545

See Rule 1000 (defining “SCI systems” and “SCI event”).

1546

The Commission notes that only one ATS currently participates in the ARP Inspection
Program and other ATSs generally do not self-report system incidents to the
Commission. At the same time, the Commission acknowledges that, to the extent that
some ATSs have less complex systems or perform fewer functions than other SCI
entities, it is possible that these ATSs will experience fewer SCI events per year than
other SCI entities. Also, as discussed more fully below, many ATSs do not have
rulebooks and thus may experience fewer systems compliance issues than other SCI
entities. Nevertheless, the Commission believes that an average of 45 SCI events per
year (excluding de minimis SCI events) is an appropriate average across all SCI entities,
including ATSs.

1547

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission noted that each entity reported an average of
approximately 6 incidents under the ARP Inspection Program in 2011, and estimated that
504

Thus, on average, each entity reported approximately 12 incidents in 2013, although some
entities reported fewer than 12 incidents, and some entities reported significantly more than 12
incidents (i.e., over 100). By defining “systems disruption” for purposes of Regulation SCI and
requiring Commission notification of systems disruptions, the Commission expects that more
incidents will be reported pursuant to Regulation SCI than pursuant to the voluntary ARP
Inspection Program. Therefore, the Commission estimates that each SCI entity will report an
average of 24 systems disruptions each year that are not de minimis systems disruptions, which
is double the average number of systems incidents reported by each participant under the ARP
Inspection Program in 2013.
Further, based on notifications received by Commission staff regarding certain SROs,
each of these SROs experienced an average of 17 systems compliance-related issues in 2013.
The notifications received by Commission staff indicate that some SROs experienced fewer than
17 systems compliance-related issues, and others experienced more than 17. The Commission
believes that very few, if any, of the notifications received in 2013 would qualify as de minimis
systems compliance issues under Regulation SCI. By defining “systems compliance issue” for
purposes of Regulation SCI and requiring Commission notification of systems compliance
issues, the Commission expects that more issues will be reported pursuant to Regulation SCI
than pursuant to self-reporting. Therefore, the Commission estimates that each SCI entity will
experience an average of 20 systems compliance issues each year that are not de minimis
systems compliance issues. 1548

there would be an average of 65 SCI event notices per year for each SCI entity. See
Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18148.
1548

The Commission acknowledges that SCI entities other than SCI SROs may experience
fewer systems compliance issues than SCI SROs because they may not have rulebooks,
505

Based on the Commission’s experience with the ARP Inspection Program, the
Commission believes each SCI entity will experience on average less than one non-de minimis
systems intrusion per year. However, for purposes of the PRA, the Commission estimates one
non-de minimis systems intrusion per SCI entity per year. 1549
With respect to the notification requirement under Rule 1002(b)(1), the Commission
notes that the notification can be made orally or in writing. As with the SCI Proposal, the
Commission estimates that one-fourth of the notifications under Rule 1002(b)(1) will be
submitted in writing (i.e., approximately 11 events per year for each SCI entity), 1550 and threefourths will be provided orally (i.e., approximately 34 events per year for each SCI entity). 1551
The Commission also estimates that each written notification under Rule 1002(b)(1) will require
2 hours 1552 for each SCI entity. 1553 The Commission is not significantly increasing its burden

and thus, one aspect of the definition of systems compliance issue would not apply to
such SCI entities (i.e., operating in a manner that does not comply with the entity’s rules).
1549

This estimate is lower than those provided by commenters (see supra note 1515 and
accompanying text) because the adopted definitions of SCI systems and indirect SCI
systems have been refined from the proposal, and because de minimis systems intrusions
are required to be reported in summary format on a quarterly basis.

1550

45 SCI events ÷ 4 = 11.25 SCI events reported in writing. One commenter noted that
most SCI entities would submit a writing to document that they had satisfied the notice
requirement of proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i). See Omgeo Letter at 16. However, the
Commission continues to estimate that one-fourth of the notifications under Rule
1002(b)(1) will be submitted in writing and that the rest will be provided orally. The
Commission believes that it is less burdensome for an SCI entity to provide oral
notification than to provide written notification and, given the requirement of Rule
1002(b)(2) to provide a written notification to the Commission within 24 hours, the
Commission believes it is likely that most initial notifications submitted under Rule
1002(b)(1) would be done orally. Moreover, based on Commission staff experience,
ARP participants generally provide initial notifications of systems issues orally.

1551

45 SCI events – 11 SCI events reported in writing = 34 SCI events reported orally.

1552

The burden estimates for each rule under Regulation SCI that involves the filing of Form
SCI include the burden associated with completing and electronically submitting Form
506

estimate for proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i) because Rule 1002(b)(1) requires the immediate
notification of SCI events and does not specify the minimum information that must be submitted
to the Commission. The Commission believes that, for many SCI events, an SCI entity will
simply notify the Commission that an SCI event has occurred, often in a single phone call, and
may not provide the Commission with additional information because it is not yet available to
the SCI entity. For these reasons, contrary to the view of some commenters, 1554 the Commission
does not expect that the SCI entity will need to gather a considerable amount of information or
significantly confer with interested parties across the entity. In particular, while the Commission
estimates some burden for legal and technology personnel of SCI entities in complying with Rule
1002(b)(1), it does not believe that Rule 1002(b)(1) will result in significant burden for such
personnel. 1555

SCI, and for manually signing a signature page or document, pursuant to the
requirements of Rule 1006.
1553

The 2 hours include 0.5 hours by an Attorney, 0.5 hours by a Compliance Manager, 0.5
hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 0.5 hours by a Senior Business Analyst. As
compared to the estimated burden for proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i), the Commission is
estimating an additional 0.5 hours by Compliance Managers, 0.5 hours by Senior
Systems Analysts, and 0.5 hours by Senior Business Analysts to reflect that legal
personnel may need to confer with technology and business personnel before contacting
the Commission regarding an SCI event, in response to the views of commenters. See
supra notes 1523-1525 and accompanying text. The Commission notes that the General
Counsel, Director of Compliance, Chief Compliance Officer, or other senior employees
or officers of certain SCI entities may review Commission notifications under Rule
1002(b)(1) before they are submitted (orally or in writing) to the Commission. However,
the Commission estimates that on average, the General Counsel, Director of Compliance,
Chief Compliance Officer, or other senior employees or officers may spend a small
amount of time reviewing each Rule 1002(b)(1) notification. Rather, they will spend
more time reviewing the other notifications required by Rule 1002(b).

1554

See supra notes 1523-1526 and accompanying text.

1555

Given that there is not a minimum amount of information that must be submitted to the
Commission, the Commission believes its estimated burden hours is more appropriate
507

The Commission agrees with the view of a commenter that oral notifications would also
result in burdens on an SCI entity, 1556 although it expects the burden for legal and compliance
personnel to be lower than in the case of written notifications because they would not need to
draft and review a written document for submission to the Commission. The Commission
estimates that the burden for systems and business analysts would remain the same as for written
notifications because the SCI entity will still need to gather the same type of information in order
to prepare an oral notification. The Commission therefore estimates that each oral notification
under Rule 1002(b)(1) will require 1.5 hours for each SCI entity. 1557 The Commission estimates
that each SCI entity would require an average of 73 hours annually to comply with Rule
1002(b)(1), 1558 or 3,212 hours for all SCI entities. 1559
The Commission estimates that each written notification under Rule 1002(b)(2) will
require 24 hours for each SCI entity. 1560 Contrary to the views of a commenter that each

than the 12 hours suggested by a commenter. See supra note 1525 and accompanying
text.
1556

See supra note 1526 and accompanying text.

1557

The 1.5 hours include 0.25 hours by an Attorney, 0.25 hours by a Compliance Manager,
0.5 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 0.5 hours by a Senior Business Analyst.

1558

11 written notifications each year × 2 hours per notification + 34 oral notifications each
year × 1.5 hours per notification = 73 hours.

1559

73 hours × 44 SCI entities = 3,212 hours.

1560

The 24 hours include 5 hours by an Attorney, 5 hours by a Compliance Manager, 6 hours
by a Senior Systems Analyst, 1 hour by an Assistant General Counsel, 1 hour by a Chief
Compliance Officer, and 6 hours by a Senior Business Analyst. Given the modifications
from proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii) identified below, the Commission estimates that legal
and compliance personnel will have less work in drafting the written notifications under
Rule 1002(b)(2), and accordingly reduced the burden hours for Attorneys and
Compliance Managers from 10 to 5. Further, as compared to the estimated burden for
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii), the Commission is estimating an additional 6 hours by a
Senior Systems Analyst, 1 hour by an Assistant General Counsel, 1 hour by a Chief
Compliance Officer, and 6 hours by a Senior Business Analyst to reflect that legal
508

notification under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii) would require approximately 90 burden hours
between senior management, middle managers, and associates from various functions (e.g.,
legal, compliance, technology), 1561 the Commission is not significantly increasing its estimate of
the burden hours from its estimate for proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii) because Rule 1002(b)(2)
requires less information than proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii), although the Commission has
revised its estimated burden hours to account for the various functions and multiple levels of
review suggested by the commenter. 1562 Also, because Rule 1002(b)(2) explicitly permits
information to be submitted on a good faith, best efforts basis, the Commission believes that SCI
entities will be able to expend less resources in reviewing each notification. Therefore, the
Commission estimates that each SCI entity would require an average of 1,080 hours annually to
comply with Rule 1002(b)(2), 1563 or 47,520 hours for all SCI entities. 1564
With respect to the number of updates required under Rule 1002(b)(3), the Commission
estimates that each SCI entity will submit 6 written updates and 18 oral updates each year under
that rule. These estimates are based on Commission staff’s experience with the ARP Inspection
Program, systems compliance-related issues at SROs, and views of commenters. Specifically,
most of the systems incidents reported to the Commission in 2013 were reported as resolved
within 24 hours. Further, as discussed above, de minimis SCI events are not subject to the
personnel may need to confer with technology and business personnel and senior
management, as well as the multiple levels of review (e.g., attorney, compliance
manager, chief compliance officer), before submitting a report regarding an SCI event, in
response to the views of commenters. See supra notes 1520-1521, 1527, and 1529-1533
and accompanying text.
1561

See supra notes 1531-1533 and accompanying text.

1562

See supra notes 1539 and 1560.

1563

45 written notifications each year × 24 hours per notification = 1,080 hours.

1564

1,080 hours × 44 SCI entities = 47,520 hours.

509

update requirement under Rule 1002(b)(3). Moreover, the Commission believes that, for some
SCI events, an SCI entity will not need to provide an update under Rule 1002(b)(3), because the
SCI entity will be able to quickly submit a final report under Rule 1002(b)(4). However, after
considering the views of a commenter that some complex outages can take up to several days to
triage, isolate, and begin to resolve, 1565 and the views of another commenter that proposed Rule
1000(b)(4)(iii) could conceivably require it to update the Commission approximately half the
time it files Form SCI, 1566 the Commission is increasing its estimate of the number of updates
from 5 to 24. 1567 Because Rule 1002(b)(3) does not require SCI entities to submit updates in
writing or on Form SCI, the Commission estimates that one-fourth of the updates will be
submitted in writing, and three-fourths will be provided orally. 1568 Because the SCI entity will
still need to gather the same type of information in order to prepare an oral or a written update,
the Commission expects that the burden for systems and business analysts will be the same for
either type of update. The Commission, however, expects that the burden for legal and
compliance personnel would be less in the case of oral updates because in that case, an SCI
entity would not need to draft and review a written document for submission to the Commission.

1565

See supra note 1516.

1566

See also supra note 1534 and accompanying text.

1567

The Commission’s estimate of 24 updates is slightly above half of the 45 written
notifications estimated for Rule 1002(b)(2). See supra note 1534 (stating that the rule
could conceivably require the commenter to update the Commission approximately half
of the time it files Form SCI).

1568

The Commission similarly estimated one-fourth written notifications and three-fourths
oral notifications in the SCI Proposal for proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(i). See Proposing
Release, supra note 13, at 18148; see also supra note 1550 and accompanying text.

510

The Commission estimates that each written update under Rule 1002(b)(3) will require 6
hours 1569 and each oral update will require 4.5 hours. 1570 The Commission is not significantly
increasing its burden estimate from proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iii). The Commission believes
that each update will likely only reflect some of the information listed under Rules 1002(b)(1)
and (2) because certain information about SCI events may not yet be available at the time the
SCI entity submits such update or may not need to be updated. Therefore, contrary to one
commenter’s view that each update would require 27 hours, 1571 the Commission does not believe
that a Rule 1002(b)(3) update will require significantly more time than as estimated in the SCI
Proposal. The Commission estimates that each SCI entity would require an average of 117 hours
annually to comply with Rule 1002(b)(3), 1572 or 5,148 hours for all SCI entities. 1573

1569

The 6 hours include 1.5 hours by an Attorney, 1.5 hours by a Compliance Manager, 1.5
hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 1.5 hours by a Senior Business Analyst. As
compared to the estimated burden for proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iii), the Commission is
estimating an additional 1.5 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst and 1.5 hours by a Senior
Business Analyst to reflect that legal personnel may need to confer with technology and
business personnel before contacting the Commission regarding an SCI event, in
response to the view of a commenter. See supra note 1528 and accompanying text. The
Commission notes that the General Counsel, Director of Compliance, Chief Compliance
Officer, or other senior employees or officers of certain SCI entities may review the
updates under Rule 1002(b)(3) before they are submitted (orally or in writing) to the
Commission. However, the Commission estimates that on average, the General Counsel,
Director of Compliance, Chief Compliance Officer, or other senior employees or officers
may spend a small amount of time reviewing each Rule 1002(b)(3) notification because it
is not the final report to the Commission on an SCI event, and the SCI entity can
subsequently submit additional updates. See supra note 1535 and accompanying text
(noting a commenter’s burden estimate for proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iii), which includes
estimates for senior management review).

1570

The 4.5 hours include 0.75 hours by an Attorney, 0.75 hours by a Compliance Manager,
1.5 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 1.5 hours by a Senior Business Analyst.

1571

See supra note 1535 and accompanying text.

1572

6 written updates each year × 6 hours per notification + 18 oral updates each year × 4.5
hours per notification = 117 hours.

511

The Commission estimates that compliance with Rule 1002(b)(4) for a particular SCI
event (which includes a final report under Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(A) and, as applicable, an interim
report under Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(B)) will require 35 hours. 1574 The Commission notes that the
information required to be provided under Rule 1002(b)(4) is similar to the information required
to be provided in a notification submitted under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii). As noted above,
in the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated that each notification under proposed Rule
1000(b)(4)(ii) would require an average of 20 burden hours, 1575 and some commenters argued
that the Commission underestimated this burden. 1576 The Commission is estimating a higher
burden for Rule 1002(b)(4) as compared to proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii) (i.e., 35 hours as
compared to 20 hours) because the reports under Rule 1002(b)(4) constitute final reports
regarding SCI events, and SCI entities will likely confer with technology and business personnel
and senior management to ensure that the information provided is accurate. For the same reason,
and because Rule 1002(b)(4) (final report) requires more information than Rule 1002(b)(2), the
1573

117 hours × 44 SCI entities = 5,148 hours.

1574

The 35 hours include 8 hours by an Attorney, 8 hours by a Compliance Manager, 7 hours
by a Senior Systems Analyst, 2 hours by an Assistant General Counsel, 1 hour by a
General Counsel, 2 hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, and 7 hours by a Senior
Business Analyst. As compared to proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii), the Commission
expects the legal and compliance personnel to have less work in drafting the written
notifications under Rule 1002(b)(4) because some of the information required by Rule
1002(b)(4) may already have been provided in a prior notification to the Commission,
and accordingly reduced the burden hours for Attorneys and Compliance Managers from
10 to 8. Further, as compared to the estimated burden for proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii),
the Commission is estimating an additional 7 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, 2 hours
by an Assistant General Counsel, 1 hour by a General Counsel, 2 hours by a Chief
Compliance Officer, and 7 hours by a Senior Business Analyst to reflect that legal
personnel may need to confer with technology and business personnel and senior
management before submitting a final report regarding an SCI event.

1575

See supra note 1509 and accompanying text.

1576

See supra notes 1527, 1529-1533 and accompanying text.

512

Commission’s burden estimate for Rule 1002(b)(4) is higher than the burden estimate for Rule
1002(b)(2) (i.e., 35 hours as compared to 24 hours). 1577 Nevertheless, the Commission is not
substantially increasing the burden estimate as compared to proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii) or
adopted Rule 1002(b)(2) because it recognizes that some of the information required by Rule
1002(b)(4) may already have been provided in a prior notification to the Commission and, thus,
its burden has been included in the burden estimate for Rule 1002(b)(2). Therefore, the
Commission estimates that each SCI entity would require an average of 1,575 hours annually to
comply with Rule 1002(b)(4), 1578 or 69,300 hours for all SCI entities. 1579
Finally, the quarterly notification under Rule 1002(b)(5) is required only to include “a
summary description” of the SCI events. The Commission’s estimated burden reflects the
Commission’s belief that most, if not all, SCI entities already have some internal documentation

1577

As compared to the Commission’s burden estimate for Rule 1002(b)(2), the Commission
is estimating an additional 3 hours by an Attorney, 3 hours by a Compliance Manager, 1
hour by a Senior Systems Analyst, 1 hour by an Assistant General Counsel, 1 hour by a
General Counsel, 1 hour by a Chief Compliance Officer, and 1 hour by a Senior Business
Analyst. The type of personnel involved in compliance with Rule 1002(b)(4) is the same
as those involved in compliance with Rule 1002(b)(2), except for the addition of the
General Counsel.

1578

45 written notifications each year × 35 hours per notification = 1,575 hours.

1579

1,575 hours × 44 SCI entities = 69,300 hours. The Commission notes that this burden
estimate includes the burden for submitting the one interim Commission notification
required under Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(B) (if necessary). In particular, the Commission notes
that the interim notification requires SCI entities to include the same information as
required to be included in a final notification under Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(A), except that
SCI entities are only required to provide the information to the extent known at the time
of the interim notification. If an SCI entity submits an interim notification, it would also
be required to submit a final notification, which is required to include all of the remaining
information that was not provided in the interim notification. Because all SCI entities are
required to provide the same amount of information in total for a particular SCI event
under Rule 1002(b)(4), regardless of whether they submit an interim notification, the
estimated burden for Rule 1002(b)(4) includes the burden for both the interim notification
and the final notification related to a particular SCI event.

513

of de minimis SCI events. Rule 1002(b)(5) would impose more burden on SCI entities if they do
not already have such internal documentation. The Commission estimates that the initial and
ongoing burden to comply with the quarterly report requirement would be 40 hours per report
per SCI entity, 1580 or 160 hours annually per SCI entity, 1581 and 7,040 hours annually for all SCI
entities. 1582
The Commission estimates that while SCI entities would handle internally most of the
work associated with Rule 1002(b), SCI entities would seek outside legal advice in the
preparation of certain Commission notifications, at an average annual cost of $45,000 per SCI
entity, 1583 or $1,980,000 for all SCI entities. 1584
b.

Dissemination of Information Regarding SCI Events

1580

The 40 burdens hours include 7.5 hours by an Attorney, 7.5 hours by a Compliance
Manager, 2 hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, 2 hours by an Assistant General
Counsel, 1 hour by a General Counsel, 10 hours by a Senior Business Analyst, and 10
hours by a Senior Systems Analyst.

1581

40 hours × 4 reports each year = 160 hours.

1582

160 hours × 44 SCI entities = 7,040 hours.

1583

See supra note 1522 and accompanying text (discussing the view of a commenter that
SCI entities would need to engage outside parties to review the Commission
notifications). But see supra note 1536 and accompanying text (discussing the view of a
commenter that none of the activities arising under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4) would be
conducive to outsourcing). The Commission’s estimate represents an average of $1,000
of outsourced cost for each SCI event that is not a de minimis SCI event. The $1,000
estimate is consistent with the Commission’s estimated outsourcing cost for each SCI
event that is subject to the dissemination requirements under Rule 1002(c). 45 SCI
events × $1,000 = $45,000.

1584

$45,000 × 44 SCI entities = $1,980,000.

514

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated that each SCI entity would experience an
average of 14 dissemination SCI events 1585 each year that are not systems intrusions, resulting in
an average of 14 information disseminations per year for each SCI entity under proposed Rule
1000(b)(5)(i). 1586 The Commission estimated that each information dissemination under
proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(i)(A) would require an average of 3 hours to prepare and make
available to members or participants. 1587 The Commission estimated that each information
update under proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(i)(B) would require an average of 5 hours to prepare and
make available to members or participants. 1588 The Commission also estimated that, on average,
each SCI entity would provide one regular update per year per dissemination SCI event under
proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(i)(C). 1589 The Commission estimated that each regular update would
require an average of 1 hour to prepare and make available to members or participants. 1590
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated that each SCI entity would experience an
average of 1 dissemination SCI event that is a systems intrusion each year, resulting in 1

1585

Dissemination SCI events included systems compliance issues, systems intrusions, and
systems disruptions that resulted, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would result, in
significant harm or loss to market participants.

1586

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18149.

1587

See id. The 3 burden hours included 2.67 hours by an Attorney and 0.33 hours by a
Webmaster. See id. This estimate was based on Commission staff’s experience with the
ARP Inspection Program. See id. at 18149, n. 416.

1588

See id. at 18150. The 5 burden hours included 4.67 hours by an Attorney and 0.33 hours
by a Webmaster. See id. This estimate was based on Commission staff’s experience
with the ARP Inspection Program. See id. at 18150, n. 420.

1589

See id. at 18150.

1590

See id. The 1 burden hour included 0.67 hours by an Attorney and 0.33 hours by a
Webmaster. See id. This estimate was based on the estimated burden to complete and
submit a written update for an SCI event on Form SCI and on Commission staff’s
experience with the ARP Inspection Program. See id. at 18150, n. 422 and n. 423.

515

information dissemination per year under proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(ii). The Commission
estimated that each information dissemination would require an average of 3 hours to prepare
and make available to members or participants. 1591 This burden estimate included any burden
for an SCI entity to document its reason for determining that dissemination of information
regarding a systems intrusion would likely compromise the security of the SCI entity’s SCI
systems or SCI security systems, or an investigation of the systems intrusion. 1592
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated that while SCI entities would internally
handle most of work associated with compliance with proposed Rule 1000(b)(5), SCI entities
would seek outside legal advice in the preparation of the disseminations at an average annual
cost of $15,000 per SCI entity. 1593
With respect to the estimated burden under proposed Rule 1000(b)(5), one commenter
noted that since most of the work entailed in producing a notification relating to a dissemination
SCI event would occur in connection with the Commission notification requirements under
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4), the Commission’s estimate of the burden of proposed Rule
1000(b)(5) is fairly accurate. 1594
Another commenter stated that the Commission underestimated the burden associated
with information dissemination. 1595 In connection with expressing its concern that almost any

1591

See id. at 18150. The 3 burden hours included 2.67 hours by an Attorney and 0.33 hours
by a Webmaster. See id. This estimate was based on Commission staff’s experience
with the ARP Inspection Program, and the Commission’s burden estimate for proposed
Rule 1000(b)(5)(i)(A). See id. at 18150, n. 426.

1592

See id.

1593

See id. at 18150-51.

1594

See MSRB Letter at 35.

516

minor or immaterial systems issue would fall under the proposed definition of SCI event, this
commenter estimated that there would be at a minimum a ten-fold increase in reportable events
from the 175 incidents in 2011 under the ARP Inspection Program. 1596
With respect to the estimated burden associated with information dissemination, this
commenter argued that the Commission incorrectly assumed that such communications would be
drafted only by a single attorney and a webmaster. 1597 This commenter believed that properly
drafting such communications will require a concerted effort by a number of individuals,
including subject matter experts and mid-level and senior managers. 1598 This commenter also
noted that SCI entities would draft different dissemination notices designed to address the
particular concerns of the different client segments it services (e.g., broker-dealers, custodian
banks, investment managers, hedge funds). 1599 As such, this commenter estimated that proposed
Rule 1000(b)(5)(i)(A) would result in a burden of approximately 30 hours to create the
dissemination 1600 and 100 hours to review. 1601 Further, this commenter disagreed that SCI
entities are likely to handle internally most of the work associated with information

1595

See Omgeo Letter at 37. This commenter argued that the Commission mistakenly relied
upon experience with the ARP Inspection Program as a basis for the estimates. See id.

1596

See id. at 37-38.

1597

See id. at 38.

1598

See id. According to this commenter, subject matter experts would include associates
from functions such as Technology, Client Support, Information Security, Legal,
Compliance, Product Management, and Sales and Relationship Management. See id. at
38, n. 75.

1599

See Omgeo Letter at 38.

1600

This commenter noted that major incidents would require far more resources. See id.

1601

See id. This commenter noted that the 100-hour estimate does not include any follow up
communications. See id. at 38, n. 76.

517

dissemination. 1602 This commenter believed that, to the extent a dissemination SCI event raises
the possibility of litigation or reputational damage for an SCI entity, the SCI entity will likely
engage outside counsel to review the facts and prepare the required materials. 1603 This
commenter also argued that the Commission’s estimate did not take into account the burden
associated with addressing responses from an SCI entity’s participants, members, or clients,
which, according to this commenter, would be hundreds of hours of SCI entity associate and
management time. 1604 This commenter expressed similar concerns respect to the burden
estimates for proposed Rules 1000(b)(5)(i)(B) and (C) and noted that each follow-up notice
would impose a burden far greater than 5 hours. 1605 This commenter also noted that the
Commission underestimated that each SCI entity would only have to provide one update each
year under proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(i)(C), and that each dissemination would only be prepared
by an attorney and a webmaster. 1606
With respect to the burden estimates for proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(ii), this commenter
expressed similar concern, and noted that each dissemination under proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(ii)
would require hundreds of burden hours. 1607

1602

See id. at 39. However, another commenter stated its belief that none of the activities
arising under proposed Rule 1000(b)(5) would be conducive to outsourcing. See MSRB
Letter at 34-35.

1603

See Omgeo Letter at 39. This commenter also expressed concern that SCI entities would
be forced to send their clients and participants a constant stream of communications
detailing minor, inconsequential events that have no impact on them, which would cause
reputational damage to SCI entities. See id.

1604

See id.

1605

See id. at 40-41.

1606

See id. at 41.

1607

See id. at 41-42.

518

As discussed above in Section IV.B.3.d, the Commission is adopting the information
dissemination requirements in Rule 1002(c), with certain modifications from the proposal. As
adopted, an SCI entity is required to disseminate certain information to its members or
participants that may have been affected by an SCI event. 1608 However, for major SCI events, an
SCI entity must disseminate the required information to all of its member or participants. 1609
Rule 1002(c)(4) further provides that the information dissemination requirement does not apply
to SCI events to the extent they relate to market regulation or market surveillance systems, or
any SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have, no or a de
minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants.
Similar to proposed Rule 1000(b)(5), adopted Rule 1002(c)(1) requires SCI entities to
promptly disseminate certain information regarding systems disruptions and systems compliance
issues, to further disseminate certain information when such information becomes known, 1610
and to provide regular updates of such information until the SCI event is resolved. In addition,
similar to proposed Rule 1000(b)(5), adopted Rule 1002(c)(2) requires SCI entities to promptly
disseminate certain information regarding systems intrusions, 1611 and provides an exception
when the SCI entity determines that dissemination of such information would likely compromise
the security of its SCI systems or indirect SCI systems, or an investigation of the systems
intrusion, and documents the reasons for such determination.

1608

See Rule 1002(c)(3).

1609

See id.

1610

The information required to be disseminated under Rule 1002(c)(1) remains unchanged
from the proposal.

1611

The information required to be disseminated under Rule 1002(c)(2) remains unchanged
from the proposal.

519

With respect to a commenter’s concern that because almost any minor or immaterial
systems issue would fall under the proposed definition of SCI event, there would be at a
minimum a ten-fold increase in reportable events as compared to the reported incidents under the
ARP Inspection Program, 1612 as noted above, Rule 1002(c)(4) provides exceptions to certain SCI
events from the information dissemination requirement. Specifically, SCI events that relate to
market regulation or market surveillance systems and de minimis SCI events would not be
subject to the information dissemination requirement. 1613 Further, as noted above in Section
IV.A, the Commission has refined the definition of SCI systems and SCI event in various
respects. 1614 Given these changes, the Commission believes that the commenter’s suggestion
that there would be at a minimum a ten-fold increase in reportable events as compared to the
reported incidents under the ARP Inspection Program is not an appropriate estimate. The
Commission now estimates that each SCI entity would disseminate information regarding 36 SCI
events each year under Rule 1002(c), 1615 including 1 non-de minimis systems intrusion each
year. 1616 Therefore, the Commission now estimates that each SCI entity would disseminate

1612

See supra note 1596 and accompanying text.

1613

These exceptions should address a commenter’s concern that proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)
would result in SCI entities being forced to send their clients and participants a constant
stream of communications detailing minor, inconsequential events that have no impact on
them. See id.

1614

See Rule 1000 (defining “SCI systems” and “SCI event”).

1615

As discussed above, the Commission estimates that each SCI entity will experience an
average of 45 SCI events each year that are not de minimis SCI events. The Commission
estimates that approximately one-fifth of these SCI events relate to market regulation and
market surveillance systems. Therefore, the Commission estimates that the number of
SCI events subject to the requirements of Rule 1002(c) would be 36 per year for each SCI
entity (45 SCI events ÷ 5 × 4 = 36 SCI events).

1616

Based on Commission’s experience with the ARP Inspection Program, the Commission
believes each SCI entity will experience on average less than one non-de minimis
520

information regarding 35 SCI events each year under Rule 1002(c)(1)(i). The Commission
estimates that each SCI entity would disseminate 3 updates for each such SCI event under Rules
1002(c)(1)(ii) and (iii), 1617 or 105 updates each year. 1618 Further, the Commission estimates that
each SCI entity would disseminate information regarding 1 systems intrusion each year under
Rule 1002(c)(2).
The Commission estimates that each information dissemination under Rule 1002(c)(1)(i)
will require 7 hours. 1619 The Commission is not significantly increasing its burden estimate from

systems intrusion per year. However, for purposes of the PRA, the Commission
estimates one non-de minimis systems intrusion per SCI entity per year.
1617

The Commission notes that Rule 1002(c)(1)(ii) requires each SCI entity, when known, to
promptly further disseminate for each SCI event three types of information: (A) a
detailed description of the SCI event; (B) the SCI entity’s current assessment of the types
and number of market participants potentially affected by the SCI event; and (C) a
description of the progress of its corrective action for the SCI event and when the SCI
event has been or is expected to be resolved. The Commission believes that one or more
of these types of information may become known to an SCI entity at different times, and
therefore the Commission estimates that each SCI entity will submit two updates per SCI
event under Rule 1002(c)(1)(ii). Rule 1002(c)(1)(iii) requires each SCI entity to provide
regular updates of any information required to be disseminated under Rules 1002(c)(1)(i)
and (ii). The Commission estimates that each SCI entity will submit one regular update
under Rule 1002(c)(1)(iii) before the SCI event is resolved. The Commission believes
that the number of updates under Rules 1002(c)(1)(ii) and (iii) will vary depending on
how quickly information is discovered and how quickly the SCI event is resolved, but
believes that a total of three updates for the two provisions is an appropriate estimate.

1618

35 SCI events × 3 updates per SCI event = 105 updates.

1619

The 7 hours include 2.67 hours by an Attorney, 1 hour by a Compliance Manager, 0.5
hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, 0.5 hours by a General Counsel, 0.5 hours by a
Director of Compliance, 1 hour by a Senior Systems Analyst, 0.5 hours by a Corporate
Communications Manager, and 0.33 hours by a Webmaster. As compared to the
estimated burden for proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(i)(A), the Commission is estimating an
additional 1 hour by a Compliance Manager, 0.5 hours by a General Counsel, 0.5 hours
by a Chief Compliance Officer, 0.5 hours by a Director of Compliance, 1 hour by a
Senior Systems Analyst, and 0.5 hours by a Corporate Communications Manager to
reflect the view of commenters that the preparation for information dissemination would
require the involvement of subject matter experts and mid-level and senior managers.
See supra notes 1597-1598 and accompanying text.
521

the proposal because the Commission believes that the information required to be disseminated
under Rule 1002(c)(1)(i) would likely already be collected for Commission notification under
Rule 1002(b)(1) or (2). 1620 Therefore, contrary to the view of a commenter, 1621 the Commission
does not believe that Rule 1002(c)(1)(i) will result in significantly higher burden for SCI entities
than as estimated in the proposal. With respect to the view of a commenter that SCI entities
would create different dissemination notices designed to address the concerns of different client
segments, 1622 the Commission notes that Rule 1002(c) only specifies the general information that
must be disseminated and does not require that SCI entities provide different information to
different clients, even though SCI entities can decide to tailor the information dissemination for
their clients. 1623 Based on the foregoing, the Commission estimates that each SCI entity would

1620

See also supra note 1594 and accompanying text (discussing the view of a commenter
that since most of the work entailed in producing a notification relating to a dissemination
SCI event would occur in connection with the Commission notification requirements
under proposed Rule 1000(b)(4), the Commission’s estimate of the burden of proposed
Rule 1000(b)(5) is fairly accurate).

1621

See supra notes 1600-1601 and 1607 and accompanying text.

1622

See supra notes 1599-1601 and accompanying text.

1623

This commenter also noted that the Commission did not take into account the burden
associated with addressing responses from an SCI entity’s participants, members, or
clients. See supra note 1604 and accompanying text. The Commission believes that
currently, SCI entities already notify affected members or participants of certain systems
issues. The Commission also believes that information regarding many systems issues
that fall under the definition of major SCI event is already made available to members or
participants of an SCI entity, and often to the public through the press or otherwise.
Therefore, the Commission does not believe that the burden to respond to members or
participants will be significantly higher than SCI entities’ current practices in the absence
of Regulation SCI. The Commission also notes that Rule 1002(c) does not impose any
requirements related to responding to inquiries about the information dissemination.

522

require an average of 245 hours annually to comply with Rule 1002(c)(1)(i), 1624 or 10,780 hours
for all SCI entities. 1625
The Commission estimates that each update under Rules 1002(c)(1)(ii) and (iii) will
require 13 hours. 1626 The Commission is not significantly increasing its burden estimate for
proposed Rules 1000(b)(5)(i)(B) and (C) because the Commission believes that the information
required to be disseminated under Rules 1002(c)(1)(ii) and (iii) would likely already be collected
for Commission notification under Rules 1002(b)(2)-(4). 1627 Therefore, contrary to the view of a
commenter, 1628 the Commission does not believe that Rules 1002(c)(1)(ii) and (iii) will result in
significantly higher burden for SCI entities than as estimated in the SCI Proposal. Based on the
foregoing, the Commission estimates that each SCI entity would require an average of 1,365
hours annually to comply with Rules 1002(c)(1)(ii) and (iii), 1629 or 60,060 hours for all SCI
entities. 1630

1624

35 information dissemination each year × 7 hours per dissemination = 245 hours.

1625

245 hours × 44 SCI entities = 10,780 hours.

1626

The 13 hours include 4.67 hours by an Attorney, 2 hours by a Compliance Manager, 1
hour by a Chief Compliance Officer, 1 hour by a General Counsel, 1 hour by a Director
of Compliance, 2 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, 1 hour by a Corporate
Communications Manager, and 0.33 hours by a Webmaster. As compared to the
estimated burden for proposed Rule 1000(b)(5)(i)(B), the Commission is estimating an
additional 2 hours by a Compliance Manager, 1 hour by a General Counsel, 1 hour by a
Chief Compliance Officer, 1 hour by a Director of Compliance, 2 hours by a Senior
Systems Analyst, and 1 hour by a Corporate Communications Manager to reflect the
view of commenters that the preparation for information dissemination would require the
involvement of subject matter experts and mid-level and senior managers. See supra
notes 1597-1598 and accompanying text.

1627

See supra notes 1594 and 1620 accompanying text.

1628

See supra notes 1605-1606 and accompanying text.

1629

105 updates each year × 13 hours per update = 1,365 hours.

1630

1,365 hours × 44 SCI entities = 60,060 hours.

523

The information required to be disseminated under Rule 1002(c)(2) for systems
intrusions is similar to the information required to be disseminated under Rule 1002(c)(1)(i) in
that both provisions require the dissemination of a summary description of an SCI event.
Therefore, the Commission is using the burden estimate for Rule 1002(c)(1)(i) as the basis for its
estimate for Rule 1002(c)(2). However, the Commission believes that Rule 1002(c)(2) will
impose more burden than Rule 1002(c)(1)(i) because it also requires that the SCI entity
determine whether dissemination of information regarding a particular systems intrusion would
compromise the security of its SCI systems or indirect SCI systems, or an investigation of the
systems intrusion, and if the SCI entity determines that it would, to document the reason for such
determination. 1631 Therefore, the Commission estimates that each SCI entity will spend an
average of 10 hours to comply with Rule 1002(c)(2), 1632 or 440 hours for all SCI entities. 1633
The Commission estimates that while SCI entities would handle internally some or most
the work associated with compliance with Rule 1002(c), 1634 SCI entities would seek outside legal

1631

See Rule 1002(c)(2).

1632

The 10 hours include 3.67 hours by an Attorney, 1.5 hours by a Compliance Manager,
0.75 hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, 0.75 hours by a General Counsel, 0.75 hours
by a Director of Compliance, 1.5 hour by a Senior Systems Analyst, 0.75 hours by a
Corporate Communications Manager, and 0.33 hours by a Webmaster. See supra note
1619. The burden estimate for Rule 1002(c)(2) is approximately one and a half times the
Commission’s burden estimate for Rule 1002(c)(1)(i). (7 hours × 1.5 = 10.5 hours.)

1633

10 hours × 44 SCI entities = 440 hours.

1634

The Commission recognizes that some SCI entities, such as certain SCI SROs, may have
the in-house expertise to complete the work associated with compliance with Rule
1002(c), while other SCI entities may not and would therefore need to outsource some of
the work associated with compliance with Rule 1002(c).

524

advice in the preparation of the information dissemination, at an average annual cost of $36,000
per SCI entity, 1635 or $1,584,000 for all SCI entities. 1636
c.

Commission Notification of Material Systems Changes

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated that each SCI entity would have an
average of 60 planned material systems changes each year, resulting in 60 advance notifications
per year. 1637 The Commission estimated that each notification would require 2 hours to prepare
and submit. 1638 For SCI entities that currently participate in the ARP Inspection Program, the
Commission estimated that these entities would start from a baseline of fifty percent. 1639 The
Commission also estimated that the initial and ongoing burden to submit semi-annual reports to

1635

The Commission is increasing its estimate of the outsourcing cost for compliance with
Rule 1002(c) from its estimate in the proposal because its estimate of the number of
information dissemination is higher than the estimated number in the proposal (i.e., from
15 to 36). In the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated an outsourcing cost of $15,000
for 15 SCI events, which results in an average cost of $1,000 per SCI event. The
Commission is continuing to estimate an average cost of $1,000 per SCI event subject to
information dissemination, but is increasing the total outsourcing cost to $36,000 based
on the increase in the number of estimated SCI events to 36. See also supra notes 16021603 and accompanying text (discussing the view of a commenter that SCI entities will
likely engage outside counsel to review the facts and prepare the required documents to
the extent an SCI event raises the possibility of litigation or reputational damage). But
see supra note 1602 and accompanying text (discussing the view of a commenter that
none of the activities arising under proposed Rule 1000(b)(5) would be conducive to
outsourcing).

1636

$36,000 × 44 SCI entities = $1,584,000.

1637

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18151. This estimate included instances where
the information previously provided to the Commission regarding any planned material
systems change becomes inaccurate. See id. at 18151, n. 431.

1638

See id. at 18151. The 2 burden hours included 0.33 hours by an Attorney and 1.67 hours
by a Senior Systems Analyst. See id. This estimate was based on Commission staff’s
experience with the ARP Inspection Program. In determining this estimate, the
Commission also considered its burden estimate for the same reporting requirement that
was proposed for SB SEFs. See id. at 18151, n. 432.

1639

See id. at 18151.

525

the Commission pursuant to proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(ii) would be 60 hours per report for each
SCI entity. 1640
With respect to the estimated burden under proposed Rule 1000(b)(6), some commenters
noted that the Commission underestimated the number of material systems changes. 1641 For
example, one commenter stated that, based on the proposed definition of material systems
changes, each SCI entity could be reporting 60 material systems changes each week. 1642 One
commenter noted that the burden estimate was effectively limited to ministerial tasks of
producing material systems change notifications and did not take into account activities
necessary to gather the information needed, to have appropriate confirmations from persons with
knowledge of the material systems change, to provide for senior management review where
appropriate, and to otherwise be in a position to draft the notification. 1643 One commenter stated
that the Commission’s estimate of 2 hours for each material systems change notice is too low
because describing systems changes “involves the work of a tech-writer, who needs to
collaborate with multiple groups on a project team, including the project manager, application

1640

See id. at 18152. The 60 burden hours included 10 hours by an Attorney and 50 hours by
a Senior Systems Analyst. See id. This estimate was based on Commission staff’s
experience with the ARP Inspection Program. See id. at 18152, n. 440.

1641

See BATS Letter at 14. See also NYSE Letter at 26 (stating that if “material” were
interpreted broadly to cover any functional change to an SCI system, the number of
material systems changes could measure in the thousands); and OTC Markets Letter at 21
(stating that it estimated it had a minimum of 430 reportable changes to its production
systems over a ten-month time frame based on the proposed notification standards for
material systems changes).

1642

See BATS Letter at 14.

1643

See MSRB Letter at 35.

526

development team and the testing and implementation teams.” 1644 Similarly, one commenter
noted that material systems change notifications would require substantial review by IT
management, relevant business supervisors, as well as compliance staff, which would increase
the burden estimate at least three-fold. 1645 One commenter noted that, based on its experience
under the ARP Inspection Program, each notice under proposed Rule 1000(b)(6) would require
at least 62 hours. 1646 This commenter also opined that the Commission mistakenly assumed that
only a senior systems analyst and an attorney would be involved in the drafting of the notice. 1647
According to this commenter, a number of subject matter experts would need to be involved in
drafting and reviewing these notices (i.e., Project Management, Developments, Quality
Assurance, Performance Testing, Systems Engineering, Systems Architecture, Capacity
Planning, Information Security, Business Continuity, Disaster Recovery, Legal, and
Compliance). 1648

1644

See OCC Letter at 15. This commenter stated that a large amount of information needs
to be assembled from different groups and consolidated into a single report, which would
include, for example: (i) a high-level description of the functionality and configuration of
the affected systems; (ii) a description of the systems development process; (iii) the
relationship to other systems; (iv) changes to production schedules due to the planned
system change; (v) any effects on capacity; (vi) a description of test results; (vii) a
summary of test results; (viii) contingency protocols (i.e., fallback options and disaster
recovery measures); (ix) vulnerability assessments and security measures; and (x)
whether an SEC rule filing under Rule 19b-4 has been made in connection with the
system change notification. See id. at 15-16. According to this commenter, unless the
Commission intends for the scope of information provided with these notices to be
limited to high level descriptions and generally less detailed, the preparation of material
systems change notices generally requires considerably more time than estimated. See id.
at 16.

1645

See UBS Letter at 6.

1646

See Omgeo Letter at 42.

1647

See id.

1648

See id. at 42-43.

527

On the other hand, one commenter stated that the Commission’s estimate of the burden of
proposed rule 1000(b)(8)(ii) is fairly accurate. 1649
One commenter stated its belief that none of the activities arising under proposed Rules
1000(b)(6) and (b)(8) would be conducive to outsourcing. 1650
As discussed in detail above in Section IV.B.4, the Commission is not adopting the
requirement for SCI entities to provide 30-day advance notifications or semi-annual reports of
material systems changes. Also as discussed in detail above in Section IV.B.4, the Commission
is not adopting the proposed definition of material systems change. Adopted Rule 1003(a)
requires each SCI entity to submit quarterly reports describing completed, ongoing, and planned
material changes to its SCI systems and security of indirect SCI systems during the prior,
current, and subsequent calendar quarters. Adopted Rule 1003(b) additionally requires each SCI
entity to promptly submit a supplemental report notifying the Commission of a material error in
or material omission from a report previously submitted under Rule 1003(a).
With respect to the comment that, based on the proposed definition of material systems
change, each SCI entity could be reporting 60 material systems changes each week (rather than
each year), the Commission notes that it has not adopted the proposed definition of material
systems change. 1651 Rather, as discussed above in Section IV.B.4, Rule 1003(a)(1) requires each
SCI entity to establish reasonable criteria for identifying a change to its SCI systems and the
security of indirect SCI systems as material. Because Rule 1003(a)(1) allows each SCI entity to
identify material systems changes, it is responsive to commenters’ concern that the proposed

1649

See MSRB Letter at 37.

1650

See id. at 36-37.

1651

See supra notes 1641-1642 and accompanying text.

528

definition was too broad and would result in an excessive number of notifications, and to
commenters’ suggestion that the definition should be revised. In particular, an SCI entity will
have reasonable discretion in establishing the written criteria in order to capture the systems
changes that it believes are material. Relatedly, with respect to commenters who specifically
discussed the 30-day advance Commission notification requirement for material systems
changes, 1652 the Commission notes that it is not adopting a 30-day advance notification
requirement for each material systems change and is instead adopting a quarterly reporting
requirement. Therefore, the Commission does not believe that it is necessary to estimate the
number of material systems changes that each SCI entity will experience each year in order to
estimate the burden associated with Rule 1003(a).
As discussed above in Section IV.B.4, Rule 1003(a) requires quarterly reports on
material systems changes and supplemental reports under certain circumstances. Specifically,
the quarterly reports are required to include a description of the completed, ongoing, and planned
material changes to SCI systems and the security of indirect SCI systems, during the prior,
current, and subsequent calendar quarters, including the dates or expected dates of
commencement and completion. 1653 The Commission notes that the quarterly reports under Rule
1652

See supra notes 1643-1648 and accompanying text.

1653

Contrary to the views of a commenter, these quarterly reports are limited in scope and do
not require a detailed description of each systems change that the SCI entity determines
to be material. See supra note 1644 (discussing the concerns of a commenter that a large
amount of information would need to be assembled and consolidated into a single report,
and that unless the Commission intends for the scope of the information provided to be
limited to high level descriptions and generally less detailed, the preparation of material
systems change notices will require considerably more time than estimated). The
Commission notes that it intends for the quarterly report to only require the information
necessary to allow the Commission and its staff to gain a sufficient understanding of the
relevant material systems changes, which would aid the Commission and its staff in
understanding the operations and functionality of the systems of an SCI entity and
529

1003(a) are required to include similar information as the information required under proposed
Rule 1000(b)(8)(ii). 1654 However, because the Commission is not requiring 30-day advance
notification of each material systems change, SCI entities may need to spend more time to gather
the information required to be included in the quarterly reports and to prepare the quarterly
reports than the burden estimated for proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(ii). 1655 Therefore, the
Commission estimates that the initial and ongoing burden to comply with the quarterly reporting
requirement would be 125 hours per report per SCI entity, 1656 or 500 hours annually per SCI

changes to such systems. Specifically, Rule 1003(a)(1) requires the quarterly report to
“describe” the material systems changes and gives each SCI entity reasonable flexibility
in how to describe it.
1654

Proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(ii) required semi-annual reports that include a summary
description of the progress of any material systems changes during the six-month period
ending on June 30 or December 31, and the date, or expected date, of completion of
implementation of such changes.

1655

At the same time, the Commission believes that most, if not all, SCI entities already have
some internal procedures for documenting all systems changes.

1656

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission preliminarily estimated 60 hours per semi-annual
report. See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18152. The Commission believes that,
although Rule 1003(a)(1) requires quarterly reports rather than semi-annual reports, the
reporting burden should not be reduced because the quarterly reports would cover
material systems changes during the prior, current, and subsequent calendar quarters. On
the other hand, the proposed semi-annual reports would have only covered material
systems changes during the previous 6 months. In addition, because the Commission is
not requiring 30-day advance notification of each material systems change, SCI entities
may need more time to gather the information required to be included in the quarterly
reports and to prepare the quarterly reports. Therefore, the Commission believes that it is
appropriate to increase by fifty percent its estimate for the proposed semi-annual
reporting requirement and to add additional personnel in response to comment. But see
supra note 1649 and accompanying text (discussing a commenter’s view that the
Commission’s estimate of the burden under proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(ii) is fairly
accurate). The 125 burdens hours include 7.5 hours by an Attorney, 7.5 hours by a
Compliance Manager, 5 hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, 30 hours by a Senior
Business Analyst, and 75 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst. In addition to adding fifty
percent to the estimated burden for proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(ii), the Commission is
estimating an additional 7.5 hours by a Compliance Manager (and decreasing the
proposed burden estimate for Attorney from 10 hours to 7.5 hours), 5 hours by a Chief
530

entity1657 and 22,000 hours annually for all SCI entities. 1658
With respect to the requirement under Rule 1003(a)(2) for supplemental material systems
change reports, for purposes of this PRA analysis, the Commission estimates that most quarterly
reports will not contain material errors or material omissions. Therefore, the Commission
estimates that each SCI entity will submit 2 supplemental reports each year under Rule
1003(a)(2), in order to account for the few instances where a quarterly report must be corrected.
The Commission estimates that the initial and ongoing burden to comply with the supplemental
reporting requirement would be 15 hours per report per SCI entity, 1659 or 30 hours annually per
SCI entity 1660 and 1,320 hours annually for all SCI entities. 1661 The Commission believes that

Compliance Officer, and 30 hours by a Senior Business Analyst to address commenters’
view that the estimates in the SCI Proposal did not take into account the activities to
gather the information needed, to have appropriate confirmations from persons with
knowledge of the material systems change, and to provide for senior management review
where appropriate (even though some of these commenters commented on the burden
estimate for proposed Rule 1000(b)(6) only). See supra notes 1643, 1645, 1647, and
1648 and accompanying text. The Commission notes that the inclusion of Senior
Business Analyst and Senior Systems Analyst is intended to cover subject matter experts
for material systems changes, as suggested by a commenter. See supra note 1648 and
accompanying text.
1657

125 hours × 4 reports each year = 500 hours. The Commission recognizes that, to the
extent an SCI entity develops a template for quarterly material systems change reports,
the burden associated with creating future quarterly reports may be reduced.

1658

500 hours × 44 SCI entities = 22,000 hours.

1659

The 15 burdens hours include 2 hours by an Attorney, 2 hours by a Compliance Manager,
1 hour by a Chief Compliance Officer, 3 hours by a Senior Business Analyst, and 7 hours
by a Senior Systems Analyst. The Commission believes that the burden associated with
supplemental material systems change reports will be substantially lower than the burden
associated with quarterly material systems change reports, but the same type of personnel
will be involved the supplemental report as the quarterly report.

1660

15 hours × 2 reports each year = 30 hours.

1661

30 hours × 44 SCI entities = 1,320 hours.

531

SCI entities would handle internally the work associated with reports required under Rule
1003(a). 1662
d.

SCI Review

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated that the initial and ongoing burden of
conducting an SCI review and submitting the SCI review to senior management for review
would be approximately 625 hours for each SCI entity. 1663 The Commission also estimated that
each SCI entity would spend 1 hour to submit the SCI review to the Commission pursuant to
proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(i). 1664
With respect to the burden associated with SCI reviews, one commenter stated that the
Commission’s estimate of the burden of proposed Rule 1000(b)(7) is fairly accurate. 1665
According to this commenter, although the burden estimate of proposed Rule 1000(b)(7) did not
require the inclusion of senior management’s response, the Commission’s estimate is sufficient
to cover the burden on senior management to produce such response. 1666
Another commenter noted that the Commission’s estimate of the burden associated with
SCI review is too low and that the SCI review will require over 1,200 burden hours. 1667 In
connection with advocating for a risk-based approach for SCI reviews, one commenter noted that
1662

See supra note 1650 and accompanying text,

1663

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18151. The 625 burden hours included 80 hours
by an Attorney, 170 hours by a Manager Internal Auditor, and 375 hours by a Senior
Systems Analyst. See id. This estimate was the Commission’s preliminary best estimate
and was based on Commission staff’s experience with the ARP Inspection Program. This
estimate was also the same as the Commission’s burden estimate for internal audits of SB
SEFs. See id. at 18151, n. 437.

1664

See id. at 18151. The 1 burden hour would be spent by an Attorney. See id.

1665

See MSRB Letter at 36.

1666

See id. at 37.

1667

See ISE Letter at 12.

532

if it were to attempt to conduct all of the market-related technology application reviews that it
currently conducts over four years during one year (excluding regulatory technology applications
such as those related to member regulation), it would require approximately 6,400 to 8,320
hours. 1668 According to this commenter, significantly more resources would be required to
conduct SCI reviews if the definition of SCI systems includes non-market regulatory and
surveillance systems, and development and testing systems. 1669 One commenter noted that
significant portions of the SCI review could be outsourced and that the Commission’s estimate
for the overall cost of outsourcing is reasonable, although some of the assumed hourly rates used
in the SCI Proposal appear to be too low in the context of the current market environment. 1670
One commenter noted that the Commission’s estimate did not take into account the
additional work that would be required by many different SCI entity associates, including
managers and subject matter experts, in order to satisfy the requirements of proposed Rule
1000(b)(7). 1671 This commenter stated that the Commission incorrectly assumed that only an
attorney, manager internal audit, and systems analyst would be required to work on the SCI
review. 1672 According to this commenter, subject matter expertise that would be needed to
perform such a review includes Product Managers, Project Managers, Developers, Quality
Assurance staff, Systems Engineers, Systems Architects, Capacity Planners, Information

1668

See FINRA Letter at 40. According to this commenter, it currently spends approximately
160 hours for each review of a technology application in connection with its regulatory
audits, and currently it reviews between 10 and 13 market-related technology applications
annually. See id.

1669

See id.

1670

See MSRB Letter at 36.

1671

See Omgeo Letter at 44.

1672

See id.

533

Security experts, Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery staff, Compliance staff, and
management. 1673 This commenter estimated that the annual burden under proposed Rule
1000(b)(7) would be 4,670 hours. 1674 According to this commenter, if the Commission intended
SCI entities to conduct a broader scope review beyond those now required by the ARP
Inspection Program, then the annual burden would be 11,199 hours. 1675 With respect to the
burden estimate for proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(i), one commenter stated that the estimate did not
address the burden on senior management for reading, analyzing, and perhaps responding to the
SCI review. 1676
As discussed above in Section IV.B.5, the Commission is adopting SCI review-related
requirements in Rule 1003(b), with some modifications from the proposal. Specifically, Rule
1003(b)(1) requires each SCI entity to conduct an SCI review of its compliance with Regulation
SCI not less than once each calendar year, with an exception for penetration test reviews, which
are required to be conducted not less than once every three years. 1677 As adopted, Rule
1003(b)(1)(ii) provides an exception for assessments of SCI systems directly supporting market
regulation or market surveillance, which are required to be reviewed at a frequency based on the
risk assessment conducted as part of the SCI review, but in no case less than once every three

1673

See id.

1674

See id.

1675

See id.

1676

See id.

1677

As proposed, the rule would have required penetration test reviews of the SCI entity’s
network, firewalls and development, testing, and production systems. However,
consistent with modifications to the definition of SCI systems, references to development
and test systems have been deleted in adopted Rule 1003(b)(1)(i).

534

years. 1678 Rules 1003(b)(2) and (3) require each SCI entity to submit a report of the SCI review
to senior management no more than 30 calendar days after completion of the review, and to
submit the report to the Commission and to the board of directors of the SCI entity or the
equivalent of such board, together with any response by senior management, within 60 calendar
days after its submission to senior management.
After considering the views of commenters, the Commission is not significantly
increasing the burden estimate for compliance with Rules 1003(b)(1) and (2) from its estimates
in the SCI Proposal. In particular, one commenter noted that the Commission’s burden estimate
for proposed Rule 1000(b)(7) was fairly accurate. 1679 Further, while other commenters
advocated higher burden estimates for the SCI review requirement, 1680 the Commission notes
that it has refined the definition of SCI systems (e.g., by eliminating development and testing
systems, and focusing on market regulation and market surveillance systems) and has
incorporated a risk-based approach to the frequency of testing for market regulation and market
surveillance systems. The Commission estimates that the initial and ongoing burden of
conducting an SCI review and submitting the SCI review to senior management of the SCI entity
1678

These exceptions, along with the exclusion of development and testing systems from the
definition of SCI systems, would address, at least in part, some commenters’ concern
regarding the scope of the definition of SCI systems and consequently the burden of the
SCI review requirement. See supra notes 1669 and 1675 and accompanying text.

1679

See supra note 1665 and accompanying text.

1680

See supra notes 1667-1668 and 1675 and accompanying text. These commenters
estimated a range of 1,200 to 8,320 burden hours. In response to the commenter that
stated that it currently spends approximately 160 hours for each review of a technology
application and it reviews between 10 and 13 market-related technology applications
annually, the Commission notes that the burden estimates in this section only include the
incremental burden associated with the rule above what the Commission estimates that
SCI entities are already performing. To the extent an SCI entity already reviews certain
of its systems, the additional burden imposed by Rule 1003(b) will be lower than for
other SCI entities.

535

for review would be approximately 690 hours for each SCI entity, 1681 and 30,360 hours annually
for all SCI entities. 1682 The Commission estimates that while SCI entities would handle
internally some or most of the work associated with compliance with Rule 1003(b), 1683 SCI
entities would outsource some of the work associated with an SCI review, at an average annual
cost of $50,000 per SCI entity, 1684 or $2,200,000 for all SCI entities. 1685

1681

The 690 hours include 80 hours by an Attorney, 35 hours by a Compliance Manager, 5
hours by a General Counsel, 20 hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, 5 hours by a
Director of Compliance, 170 hours by a Manager Internal Audit, and 375 hours by a
Senior Systems Analyst. As compared to the estimated burden for proposed Rule
1000(b)(7), the Commission is estimating an additional 35 hours by a Compliance
Manager, 5 hours by a General Counsel, 20 hours by a Chief Compliance Officer, and 5
hours by a Director of Compliance, to reflect the view of commenters that managers
would be involved in satisfying the requirements related to SCI review. See supra notes
1671-1675 and accompanying text. The Commission notes that the 20-hour burden
estimate for the Chief Compliance Officer includes the time spent by other members of
the senior management team (other than the General Counsel, who has a separate burden
estimate). See supra Section IV.B.5 (discussing senior management involvement in
compliance with Rule 1003(b)). The Commission notes that the inclusion of Manager
Internal Audit and Senior Systems Analyst is intended to cover subject matter experts
related to systems review (e.g., information security experts, systems engineers, quality
assurance staff). See supra notes 1671-1675 and accompanying text. The Commission
also believes that some SCI entities already conduct annual reviews of its systems, and
therefore may incur less burden than other SCI entities in complying with Rule 1003(b).

1682

690 hours × 44 SCI entities = 30,360 hours.

1683

As noted above, one commenter suggested that significant portions of the SCI review
may be outsourced. This commenter also noted that the Commission’s estimate of the
overall cost of outsourcing is reasonable, although it believed some of the assumed
hourly rates appear to be too low in the context of current market environment. See supra
note 1670 and accompanying text. The Commission acknowledges that some SCI
entities may outsource work related to SCI review to more expensive outside firms than
others. On average, the Commission believes its hourly rate of $400 for outsourcing
continues to be appropriate.

1684

125 hours × $400 = $50,000. The Commission believes that SCI entities may outsource
some of the legal and audit work associated with an SCI review. In particular, the
Commission estimates that, on average, an SCI entity will outsource 40 hours of legal
work and 85 hours of audit work (or half of the hour burden estimates for Attorney and
Manager Internal Audit). See supra note 1681.

536

With respect to the comment that the burden estimate for proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(i)
failed to account for the burden on senior management for reviewing and responding to the
report of the SCI review, 1686 the Commission notes that proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(i) and adopted
Rule 1003(b)(3) do not require senior management to respond to the report of the SCI review.
Rather, Rule 1003(b)(3) only requires an SCI entity to submit the already prepared report of the
SCI review, and response by senior management if there was any, to the Commission and to the
board of directors of the SCI entity or the equivalent of such board. Moreover, the Commission
is including in its burden estimate for Rules 1003(b)(1) and (2) the burden for senior
management review of the report for the SCI review. Therefore, with respect to Rule 1003(b)(3),
the Commission estimates that each SCI entity would require 1 hour per year to submit the report
of the SCI review and any response by senior management to the Commission and to the board
of directors of the SCI entity or the equivalent of such board, 1687 for a burden of 44 hours for all
SCI entities. 1688
e.

Access to EFFS

1685

$50,000 × 44 SCI entities = $2,200,000

1686

See supra notes 1666 and 1676 and accompanying text. One of these commenters,
however, noted that the Commission’s estimated burden for proposed Rule 1000(b)(7) is
fairly accurate, even though it did not include senior management’s response. See supra
notes 1665-1666 and accompanying text.

1687

The 1 hour would be spent by an Attorney. This estimate is unchanged from the burden
estimate for proposed Rule 1000(b)(8)(i), which only required submission of the report
and any response by senior management to the Commission. The Commission believes
that the additional burden for submitting the same report and response to the SCI entity’s
board of directors or the equivalent of such board would be modest, and thus the estimate
of one hour remains unchanged from the burden estimate for proposed Rule
1000(b)(8)(i), which required submission of the report and response by senior
management only to the Commission.

1688

1 hour × 44 SCI entities = 44 hours.

537

As noted above, to access EFFS, an SCI entity will submit to the Commission an EAUF
to register each individual at the SCI entity who will access the EFFS system on behalf of the
SCI entity. The Commission is including in its burden estimates the burden for completing the
EAUF for each individual at an SCI entity that will request access to EFFS. The Commission
estimates that initially, on average, two individuals at each SCI entity will request access to
EFFS through the EAUF, and each EAUF would require 0.15 hours to complete and submit.
Therefore, each SCI entity would initially require 0.3 hours to complete the requisite EAUFs, 1689
or approximately 13 hours for all SCI entities. 1690 The Commission also estimates that annually,
on average, one individual at each SCI entity will request access to EFFS through EAUF. 1691
Therefore, the ongoing burden to complete the EAUF would be 0.15 hours annually for each SCI
entity, 1692 or approximately 7 hours annually for all SCI entities. 1693
In addition, the Commission estimates that each SCI entity will designate two individuals
to sign Form SCI each year. An individual signing a Form SCI must obtain a digital ID, at the

1689

0.15 hours per EAUF × 2 individuals = 0.3 hours per SCI entity. These estimates are
based on Commission staff’s experience with EFFS and EAUFs pursuant to Rule 19b-4
under the Exchange Act. The 0.15 hours would be spent by an Attorney. The
Commission acknowledges that an SCI SRO may initially submit fewer than two EAUFs
because certain individuals at SCI SROs currently already have access to EFFS, whereas
an SCI entity other than an SCI SRO may submit more than two EAUFs initially because
it has not previously submitted filings through EFFS. Therefore, the Commission
believes it is appropriate to estimate that, on average, each SCI entity will submit two
EAUFs initially.

1690

0.30 hours × 44 SCI entities = 13.2 hours.

1691

The Commission estimates that annually, on average, one individual at each SCI entity
will request access to EFFS through EAUF to account for the possibility that an
individual who previously had access to EFFS may no longer be designated as needing
such access.

1692

0.15 hours per EAUF × 1 individual = 0.15 hours.

1693

0.15 hours × 44 entities = 6.6 hours.

538

cost of approximately $25 each year. Therefore, each SCI entity would require approximately
$50 annually to obtain digital IDs for the individuals with access to EFFS for purposes of signing
Form SCI, 1694 or approximately $2,200 for all SCI entities. 1695
3.

Requirements to Take Corrective Actions and Identify Critical SCI
Systems, Major SCI Events, De Minimis SCI Events, and Material
Systems Changes

The rules under Regulation SCI that would result in SCI entities establishing additional
processes for compliance are discussed more fully in Sections IV.A, IV.B.3.b, and IV.B.4 above.
a.

Corrective Actions

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission noted that, although SCI entities already take
corrective action in response to systems issues, proposed Rule 1000(b)(3) would likely result in
SCI entities revising their policies regarding taking corrective actions. 1696 The Commission
estimated that the initial burden would be 42 hours per SCI entity, 1697 and the ongoing burden
would be 12 hours annually per SCI entity. 1698 The Commission estimated that SCI entities
would establish the process for compliance with proposed Rule 1000(b)(3) internally. 1699

1694

$25 per digital ID × 2 individuals = $50 per SCI entity.

1695

$50 × 44 SCI entities = $2,200.

1696

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18152.

1697

See id. The 42 burden hours included 16 hours by a Compliance Manager, 16 hours by
an Attorney, 5 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 5 hours by an Operations
Specialist. See id. This estimate was based on the Commission’s burden estimate for
proposed Rule 1000(b)(1). See id. at 18152, n. 442.

1698

See id. at 18152. The 12 burden hours included 6 hours by a Compliance Manager and 6
hours by an Attorney. See id. This estimate was based on the Commission’s burden
estimate for proposed Rule 1000(b)(1). See id. at 18152, n. 443.

1699

See id. at 18152, n. 442.

539

One commenter stated its belief that basing the estimate for proposed Rule 1000(b)(3) on
the percentage of the burden estimate under proposed Rule 1000(b)(1) is appropriate. 1700 This
commenter also noted that while the taking of corrective action might be wholly or partially
outsourced with regard to systems development activities, the establishment of policies and
procedures with respect to corrective action would not be conducive to outsourcing. 1701
As discussed in detail above in Section IV.B.3.b, the Commission continues to require
each SCI entity to begin to take appropriate corrective action in Rule 1002(a), but the corrective
action requirement is triggered when any responsible SCI personnel has a reasonable basis to
conclude that an SCI event has occurred. 1702 The Commission continues to believe that all SCI
entities, regardless of whether they participate in the ARP Inspection Program, already take
corrective action in response to systems issues and have some internal processes with respect to
corrective action. 1703 The Commission also continues to believe that Rule 1002(a) will likely
result in SCI entities revising their policies, which will help to ensure that their information
technology staff has the ability to access systems in order to take appropriate corrective
actions. 1704 The Commission therefore believes that Rule 1002(a) may impose a one-time
implementation burden on SCI entities associated with developing such a process, and periodic
burdens in reviewing that process. The Commission estimates that the initial burden to

1700

See MSRB Letter at 31-32.

1701

See id. at 32.

1702

See Rule 1002(a).

1703

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18152.

1704

See id.

540

implement such a process would be 114 hours per SCI entity, 1705 or 5,016 hours for all SCI
entities. 1706 The Commission also estimates that the ongoing burden to review such a process
would be 39 hours annually per SCI entity, 1707 or 1,716 hours annually for all SCI entities. 1708

1705

This estimate is based on the Commission’s burden estimate for Rule 1001(a), because
Rule 1001(a) and Rule 1002(a) both would result in policies and procedures or processes.
As noted above, one commenter stated that basing the burden estimate for proposed Rule
1000(b)(3) on the burden estimate under proposed Rule 1000(b)(1) is appropriate. See
supra note 1700 and accompanying text. Because Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule
1001(a)(2)(vi)) requires the establishment of six policies and procedures at a minimum
and Rule 1002(a) would result in the establishment of one set of policies and procedures,
the Commission estimates that the initial staff burden to draft the policies and procedures
for Rule 1002(a) is one-sixth of the initial staff burden to draft the policies and
procedures required by Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). 504 hours ÷ 6 =
84 hours. The 84 burden hours include 32 hours by a Compliance Manager, 32 hours by
an Attorney, 10 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 10 hours by an Operations
Specialist. This burden hour allocation is based on the allocation for Rule 1001(a)
(excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). See supra note 1443. The Commission also estimates
that a Chief Compliance Officer will spend 20 hours and a Director of Compliance will
spend 10 hours reviewing the policies and procedures required by Rule 1002(a). 84
hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 20 hours + Director of Compliance at 10 hours =
114 hours.

1706

114 hours × 44 SCI entities = 5,016 hours.

1707

This estimate is based on the Commission’s burden estimate for Rule 1001(a), because
Rule 1001(a) and 1002(a) both would result in policies and procedures or processes. See
supra note 1700 and accompanying text (stating that basing the burden estimate for
proposed Rule 1000(b)(3) on the burden estimate under proposed 1000(b)(1) is
appropriate). Because Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)) requires the
maintenance of six policies and procedures at a minimum and 1002(a) would result in the
maintenance of one set of policies and procedures, the Commission estimates that the
ongoing staff burden under 1002(a) is one-sixth of the ongoing staff burden under Rule
1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). 144 hours ÷ 6 = 24 hours. The 24 burden hours
include 9 hours by a Compliance Manager, 9 hours by an Attorney, 3 hours by a Senior
Systems Analyst, and 3 hours by an Operations Specialist. This burden hour allocation is
based on the allocation for Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). See supra note
1445. The Commission also estimates that a Chief Compliance Officer will spend 10
hours and a Director of Compliance will spend 5 hours reviewing the policies and
procedures required by Rule 1002(a). 24 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 10 hours +
Director of Compliance at 5 hours = 39 hours.

1708

39 hours × 44 SCI entities = 1,716 hours.

541

The Commission continues to believe that SCI entities will conduct internally most of the
work related to their corrective action procedures. As noted by a commenter, the establishment
of policies and procedures with respect to corrective action would not be conducive to
outsourcing. 1709
b.

Identification of Critical SCI Systems, Major SCI Events, De
Minimis SCI Events, and Material Systems Changes

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission estimated that requirements under the proposal with
respect to immediate notification SCI events and dissemination SCI events may impose burdens
on SCI entities in developing and reviewing a process to ensure that they are able to quickly and
correctly make a determination regarding the nature of an SCI event. 1710 For SCI entities that do
not participate in the ARP Inspection Program, the Commission estimated that the initial burden
would be 42 hours per SCI entity1711 and the ongoing burden would be 12 hours annually per
SCI entity. 1712 For SCI entities that currently participate in the ARP Inspection Program, the
Commission estimated that the initial burden would be 21 hours per SCI entity1713 and the

1709

See supra note 1701 and accompanying text.

1710

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18152.

1711

See id. at 18153. The 42 burden hours included 16 hours by a Compliance Manager, 16
hours by an Attorney, 5 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 5 hours by an Operations
Specialist. See id. This estimate was based on the Commission’s burden estimate for
proposed Rule 1000(b)(1). See id. at 18153, n. 448.

1712

See id. at 18153. The 12 burden hours included 6 hours by a Compliance Manager and 6
hours by an Attorney. See id. This estimate was based on the Commission’s burden
estimate for proposed Rule 1000(b)(1). See id. at 18153, n. 452.

1713

See id. at 18153. The 21 burden hours included 8 hours by a Compliance Manager, 8
hours by an Attorney, 2.5 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 2.5 hours by an
Operations Specialist. See id.

542

ongoing burden would be 6 hours annually per SCI entity. 1714 The Commission believed that
SCI entities would internally establish the process for determining whether an SCI event is an
immediate notification SCI event or dissemination SCI event. 1715
One commenter stated its belief that the Commission’s burden estimate for policies and
procedures to identify an SCI event as an immediate notification SCI event or dissemination SCI
event was effectively limited to ministerial tasks of producing such policies and procedures in
isolation from other organizational activities and needs, and took into account only minimal
supervisory or decision-making activities, therefore significantly underestimated the total burden
of compliance with this provision. 1716 This commenter urged the Commission to adjust the
estimate in a manner similar to this commenter’s suggestion with regard to proposed Rules
1000(b)(1) and (2). 1717
As discussed above in Section IV.B.4, Rule 1003(a)(1) requires each SCI entity to
establish reasonable written criteria for identifying a change to its SCI systems and the security
of indirect SCI systems as material. As noted in the SCI Proposal, because the ARP Inspection
Program already provides for the reporting “significant systems changes” to Commission staff,
the Commission believes that, as compared to entities that do not participate in the ARP
Inspection Program, entities that currently participate in the ARP Inspection Program would
already have some internal processes for determining the significance of a systems issue or
systems change. Therefore, the Commission continues to estimate a 50% baseline for the staff
1714

See id. The 6 burden hours included 3 hours by a Compliance Manager and 3 hours by
an Attorney. See id.

1715

See id. at 18153, n. 448, n. 450, n. 452, and n. 454.

1716

See MSRB Letter at 32.

1717

See id.

543

burden estimates for SCI entities that currently participate in the ARP Inspection Program. 1718
However, the Commission does not believe that a 50% baseline would be appropriate for these
SCI entities in terms of senior management review. The Commission believes that, although
these entities already have some internal processes for determining the significance of a systems
change, their senior management would require the same number of hours as other SCI entities
to review and ensure that the process is reasonable, as required by Rule 1003(a)(1). The
Commission continues to believe that SCI entities will internally establish and maintain the
policies and procedures required by Rule 1003(a)(1).
The Commission estimates that each SCI entity that does not participate in the ARP
Inspection Program would require 114 hours initially to establish the criteria for identifying
material systems changes, 1719 or 1,596 hours for all such SCI entities. 1720 The Commission also

1718

The 50% baseline for ARP participants is consistent with the baseline for the Rule
1001(a) burden estimates.

1719

This estimate is based on the Commission’s burden estimate for Rule 1001(a), because
Rule 1001(a) and Rule 1003(a)(1) both require policies and procedures or processes. See
supra note 1700 and accompanying text (stating, in the context of proposed Rule
1000(b)(3), that basing the burden estimate for a set of policies and procedures or
processes on the burden estimate under proposed 1000(b)(1) is appropriate). Because
Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)) requires the establishment of six policies
and procedures at a minimum and Rule 1003(a)(1) requires the establishment of one set
of criteria, the Commission estimates that the initial staff burden to draft the criteria
required by Rule 1003(a)(1) is one-sixth of the initial staff burden to draft the policies
and procedures required by Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). 504 hours ÷ 6
= 84 hours. The 84 burden hours include 32 hours by a Compliance Manager, 32 hours
by an Attorney, 10 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 10 hours by an Operations
Specialist. This burden hour allocation is based on the allocation for Rule 1001(a)
(excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). See supra note 1443. The Commission also estimates
that a Chief Compliance Officer will spend 20 hours and a Director of Compliance will
spend 10 hours reviewing the policies and procedures required by Rule 1003(a)(1). 84
hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 20 hours + Director of Compliance at 10 hours =
114 hours.

544

estimates that each SCI entity that does not participate in the ARP Inspection Program would
require 39 hours annually to review and update the criteria for identifying material systems
changes, 1721 or 546 hours for all such SCI entities. 1722 The Commission estimates that each SCI
entity that currently participates in the ARP Inspection Program would require 72 hours initially
to establish the criteria for identifying material systems changes, 1723 or 2,160 hours for all such
SCI entities. 1724 The Commission also estimates that each SCI entity that currently participates

1720

114 hours × 14 SCI entities that do not participate in the ARP Inspection Program =
1,596 hours.

1721

This estimate is based on the Commission’s burden estimate for Rule 1001(a), because
Rule 1001(a) and Rule 1003(a)(1) both require policies and procedures or processes. See
supra note 1700 and accompanying text (stating, in the context of proposed Rule
1000(b)(3), that basing the burden estimate for a set of policies and procedures or
processes on the burden estimate under proposed 1000(b)(1) is appropriate). Because
Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)) requires the maintenance of six policies
and procedures at a minimum and Rule 1003(a)(1) requires the maintenance of one set of
criteria, the Commission estimates that the ongoing staff burden under 1003(a)(1) is onesixth of the ongoing staff burden under Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)).
144 hours ÷ 6 = 24 hours. The 24 burden hours include 9 hours by a Compliance
Manager, 9 hours by an Attorney, 3 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 3 hours by
an Operations Specialist. This burden hour allocation is based on the allocation for Rule
1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). See supra note 1445. The Commission also
estimates that a Chief Compliance Officer will spend 10 hours and a Director of
Compliance will spend 5 hours reviewing the policies and procedures required by Rule
1003(a)(1). 24 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 10 hours + Director of Compliance
at 5 hours = 39 hours.

1722

39 hours × 14 SCI entities that do not participate in the ARP Inspection Program = 546
hours.

1723

84 hours ÷ 2 = 42 hours. The 42 burden hours include 16 hours by a Compliance
Manager, 16 hours by an Attorney, 5 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 5 hours by
an Operations Specialist. The Commission also estimates that a Chief Compliance
Officer will spend 20 hours and a Director of Compliance will spend 10 hours reviewing
the policies and procedures required by Rule 1003(a)(1). 42 hours + Chief Compliance
Officer at 20 hours + Director of Compliance at 10 hours = 72 hours.

1724

72 hours × 30 SCI entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program = 2,160 hours.
545

in the ARP Inspection Program would require 27 hours annually to review and update the
criteria, 1725 or 810 hours for all such SCI entities. 1726
As adopted, Regulation SCI requires SCI entities to identify certain types of events,
systems, and changes. Specifically, Rule 1000 defines “critical SCI systems” as any SCI
systems of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI entity that: (1) directly support functionality
relating to (i) clearance and settlement systems of clearing agencies; (ii) openings, reopenings,
and closings on the primary listing market; (iii) trading halts; (iv) initial public offerings; (v) the
provision of consolidated market data; or (vi) exclusively-listed securities; or (2) provide
functionality to the securities markets for which the availability of alternatives is significantly
limited or nonexistent and without which there would be a material impact on fair and orderly
markets. Rule 1000 defines “major SCI event” as an SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity
reasonably estimates would have any impact on a critical SCI system or a significant impact on
the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants. Because Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) requires
business continuity and disaster recovery plans that are reasonably designed to achieve two-hour
resumption of critical SCI systems following a wide-scale disruption, each SCI entity needs to
identify its critical SCI systems. In addition, each SCI entity needs to identify its critical SCI
systems because the definition of major SCI event includes an SCI event that has had, or the SCI
entity reasonably estimates would have, any impact on a critical SCI system. Further, when an

1725

24 hours ÷ 2 = 12 hours. The 12 burden hours include 4.5 hours by a Compliance
Manager, 4.5 hours by an Attorney, 1.5 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 1.5 hours
by an Operations Specialist. The Commission also estimates that a Chief Compliance
Officer will spend 10 hours and a Director of Compliance will spend 5 hours reviewing
the policies and procedures required by Rule 1003(a)(1). 12 hours + Chief Compliance
Officer at 10 hours + Director of Compliance at 5 hours = 27 hours.

1726

27 hours × 30 SCI entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program = 810 hours.

546

SCI event occurs, an SCI entity needs to determine whether the event is a major SCI event,
because Rule 1002(c)(3) requires an SCI entity to disseminate information regarding major SCI
events to all of its member or participants. In addition, Rules 1002(b) and (c) provide certain
exceptions from the Commission notification and information dissemination requirements for
any SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have, no or a de
minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants. Therefore, when SCI
events occur, an SCI entity needs to determine whether they are de minimis SCI events.
The Commission believes that the identification of critical SCI systems, major SCI
events, and de minimis SCI events will impose an initial one-time implementation burden on SCI
entities in developing processes to quickly and correctly identify the nature of a system or
event. 1727 The identification of these systems and events may also impose periodic burdens on
SCI entities in reviewing and updating the processes. As noted in the SCI Proposal, because the
ARP Inspection Program already provides for the reporting “significant systems changes” and
“significant systems outages” to Commission staff, the Commission believes that, as compared
to entities that do not participate in the ARP Inspection Program, entities that currently
participate in the ARP Inspection Program would already have some internal processes for
determining the significance of a systems issue or systems change. Therefore, the Commission
estimates a 50% baseline for the staff burden for SCI entities that currently participate in the
ARP Inspection Program. 1728 However, the Commission does not believe that a 50% baseline
1727

The Commission’s approach with respect to SCI events and SCI systems is responsive to
some commenters’ suggestion for a risk-based regime. See, e.g., supra notes 784-789
and accompanying text (discussing commenters’ suggestions for revising the
Commission reporting requirement).

1728

The 50% baseline for ARP participants is consistent with the baseline for the Rule
1001(a) burden estimates.
547

would be appropriate for these SCI entities in terms of senior management review. The
Commission believes that SCI entities will internally establish and maintain the policies and
procedures regarding the identification of critical SCI systems, major SCI events, and de minimis
SCI events.
The Commission estimates that each SCI entity that does not participate in the ARP
Inspection Program would require 198 hours initially to establish the criteria for identifying
certain systems and events, 1729 or 2,772 hours for all such SCI entities. 1730 The Commission also
estimates that each SCI entity that does not participate in the ARP Inspection Program would
require 63 hours annually to review and update such criteria, 1731 or 882 hours for all such SCI

1729

This estimate is based on the Commission’s burden estimate for Rule 1001(a), because
Rule 1001(a) and the identification of certain systems and events both would result in
policies and procedures or processes. See supra note 1700 and accompanying text
(stating, in the context of proposed Rule 1000(b)(3), that basing the burden estimate for a
set of policies and procedures or processes on the burden estimate under proposed
1000(b)(1) is appropriate). Because Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi))
requires the establishment of six policies and procedures at a minimum and the
identification of certain systems and events could result in the establishment of two
policies and procedures (i.e., one for systems and one for events), the Commission
estimates that the initial staff burden to draft the policies and procedures to identify
certain systems and events is one-third of the initial staff burden to draft the policies and
procedures required by Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). 504 hours ÷ 3 =
168 hours. The 168 burden hours include 64 hours by a Compliance Manager, 64 hours
by an Attorney, 20 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 20 hours by an Operations
Specialist. This burden hour allocation is based on the allocation for Rule 1001(a)
(excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). See supra note 1443. The Commission also estimates
that a Chief Compliance Officer will spend 20 hours and a Director of Compliance will
spend 10 hours reviewing the policies and procedures to identify certain systems and
events. 168 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 20 hours + Director of Compliance at
10 hours = 198 hours.

1730

198 hours × 14 SCI entities that do not participate in the ARP Inspection Program =
2,772 hours.

1731

This estimate is based on the Commission’s burden estimate for Rule 1001(a), because
Rule 1001(a) and the identification of certain systems and events both would result in
policies and procedures or processes. See supra note 1700 and accompanying text
548

entities. 1732 The Commission estimates that each SCI entity that currently participates in the
ARP Inspection Program would require 114 hours initially to establish the criteria for identifying
certain systems and events, 1733 or 3,420 hours for all such SCI entities. 1734 The Commission also
estimates that each SCI entity that currently participates in the ARP Inspection Program would
require 39 hours annually to review and update such criteria, 1735 or 1,170 hours for all such SCI

(stating, in the context of proposed Rule 1000(b)(3), that basing the burden estimate for a
set of policies and procedures or processes on the burden estimate under proposed
1000(b)(1) is appropriate). Because Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi))
requires the maintenance of six policies and procedures at a minimum and the
identification of certain systems and events could result in the maintenance of two
policies and procedures, the Commission estimates that the ongoing staff burden to draft
the policies and procedures to identify certain systems and events is one-third of the
ongoing staff burden under Rule 1001(a) (excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). 144 hours ÷ 3
= 48 hours. The 48 burden hours include 18 hours by a Compliance Manager, 18 hours
by an Attorney, 6 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 6 hours by an Operations
Specialist. This burden hour allocation is based on the allocation for Rule 1001(a)
(excluding Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi)). See supra note 1445. The Commission also estimates
that a Chief Compliance Officer will spend 10 hours and a Director of Compliance will
spend 5 hours reviewing the policies and procedures for identifying certain systems and
events. 48 hours + Chief Compliance Officer at 10 hours + Director of Compliance at 5
hours = 63 hours.
1732

63 hours × 14 SCI entities that do not participate in the ARP Inspection Program = 882
hours.

1733

168 hours ÷ 2 = 84 hours. The 84 burden hours include 32 hours by a Compliance
Manager, 32 hours by an Attorney, 10 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 10 hours
by an Operations Specialist. The Commission also estimates that a Chief Compliance
Officer will spend 20 hours and a Director of Compliance will spend 10 hours reviewing
the policies and procedures for identifying certain systems and events. 84 hours + Chief
Compliance Officer at 20 hours + Director of Compliance at 10 hours = 114 hours.

1734

114 hours × 30 SCI entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program = 3,420
hours.

1735

48 hours ÷ 2 = 24 hours. The 24 burden hours include 9 hours by a Compliance
Manager, 9 hours by an Attorney, 3 hours by a Senior Systems Analyst, and 3 hours by
an Operations Specialist. The Commission also estimates that a Chief Compliance
Officer will spend 10 hours and a Director of Compliance will spend 5 hours reviewing
the policies and procedures for identifying certain systems and events. 24 hours + Chief
Compliance Officer at 10 hours + Director of Compliance at 5 hours = 39 hours.
549

entities. 1736 The Commission believes that the revised burden estimates for establishing policies
and procedures to identify certain systems and events are responsive to a commenter’s concern
that the estimate in the SCI Proposal only included ministerial tasks and minimal supervisory
activities. 1737 Specifically, the Commission increased from the proposal the estimated burden
hours for the personnel involved in establishing such policies and procedures, and included
senior level review by adding burden estimates for the Chief Compliance Officer and Director of
Compliance. Moreover, because these revised burden estimates are based on the revised burden
estimates for Rule 1001(a), these estimates are responsive to a commenter’s suggestion that they
be revised in a manner similar to its suggestions with respect to proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and
(2). 1738
4.

Recordkeeping Requirements

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission noted that it is not proposing a new recordkeeping
requirement for SCI SROs because the documents relating to compliance with proposed
Regulation SCI are subject to their existing recordkeeping and retention requirements under Rule
17a-1 under the Act. 1739 The Commission therefore noted its belief that the proposed
recordkeeping requirements would not result in any burden that is not already accounted for in
the Commission’s burden estimates for Rule 17a-1. 1740 With respect to SCI entities other than
SCI SROs, the Commission estimated that the initial and ongoing burdens to make, keep, and
preserve records relating to compliance with proposed Regulation SCI would be approximately
1736

39 hours × 30 SCI entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program = 1,170 hours.

1737

See supra note 1716 and accompanying text.

1738

See supra note 1717 and accompanying text.

1739

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18153.

1740

See id.

550

25 hours annually per SCI entity. 1741 The Commission also estimated that each SCI entity other
than an SCI SRO would incur a one-time burden to set up or modify an existing recordkeeping
system to comply with the proposed recordkeeping requirements. 1742 Specifically, the
Commission estimated that for each SCI entity other than an SCI SRO, setting up or modifying a
recordkeeping system would create an initial burden of 170 hours and $900 in information
technology costs for purchasing recordkeeping software. 1743 Further, the Commission noted its
belief that proposed Rule 1000(c)(3), which would require an SCI entity, upon or immediately
prior to ceasing to do business or ceasing to be registered under the Exchange Act, to take all
necessary action to ensure that the records required to be made, kept, and preserved by Rules
1000(c)(1) and (2) remain accessible to the Commission and its representatives in the manner
and for the remainder of the period required by Rule 1000(c), would not result in any additional
paperwork burden that is not already accounted for in the Commission’s burden estimates for
proposed Rules 1000(c)(1) and (2). 1744
One commenter noted that while proposed Rule 1000(c) does not create new
recordkeeping requirements for SCI SROs, the number of records to be retained by an SRO

1741

See id. at 18154. The 25 burden hours would be spent by a Compliance Clerk. See id.
This estimate was based on Commission staff’s experience with examinations of
registered entities, the Commission’s estimated burden for an SRO to comply with Rule
17a-1, and the Commission’s estimated burden for a SB SEF to keep and preserve
documents made or received in the conduct of its business. See id. at 18154, n. 458.

1742

See id. at 18154.

1743

See id. These estimates were based on the Commission’s experience with examinations
of registered entities and the Commission’s estimated burden for an SB SEF to keep and
preserve documents made or received in the conduct of its business. See id. at 18154, n.
460.

1744

See id. at 18154.

551

would increase due to proposed Regulation SCI. 1745 This commenter stated that such additional
recordkeeping is not costless and should be considered by the Commission. 1746
As discussed in detail above in Section IV.C.1.a, the Commission is adopting the
recordkeeping requirements substantially as proposed. The Commission notes that the burden
associated with creating such records, as required of all SCI entities, including SCI SROs, by
Regulation SCI, are discussed and accounted for throughout this Section V.
With respect to SCI SROs, the breadth of Rule 17a-1 under the Exchange Act 1747 is such
that it requires SCI SROs to make, keep, and preserve records relating to their compliance with
Regulation SCI. 1748 SCI entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program (nearly all of
whom are SCI SROs) do generally keep and preserve the types of records that are subject to the
requirements of Rule 1005. However, because Regulation SCI imposes new requirements on
SROs, as noted by a commenter, the number of records to be retained by an SRO may
increase. 1749 The Commission believes that existing recordkeeping systems and processes of
SCI SROs will be used to retain the records required to be created pursuant to Regulation SCI.
As a result, the Commission believes that the burden associated with retaining these additional
records is an incrementally small increase in the burden currently incurred by SROs to retain

1745

See MSRB Letter at 39.

1746

See id.

1747

“Every national securities exchange, national securities association, registered clearing
agency and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board shall keep and preserve at least
one copy of all documents, including all correspondence, memoranda, papers, books,
notices, accounts, and other such records as shall be made or received by it in the course
of its business as such and in the conduct of its self-regulatory activity.” Exchange Act
Rule 17a-1(a), 17 CFR 240.17a-1(a).

1748

See also Rule 1005(a).

1749

See supra notes 1745-1746 and accompanying text.

552

records as required by Rule 17a-1 and that the burden associated with retaining records related to
Regulation SCI is already accounted for in the Commission’s burden estimates for Rule 17a1. 1750
The Commission continues to believe that for SCI entities other than SCI SROs, the
initial and ongoing burden to make, keep, and preserve records relating to compliance with
Regulation SCI, as required by Rule 1005(b), would be approximately 25 hours annually per SCI
entity that is not an SCI SRO. 1751 Therefore, the Commission estimates a total annual burden of
425 hours for all such SCI entities. 1752 The Commission also continues to estimate that each SCI
entity other than an SCI SRO would incur a one-time burden to set up or modify an existing
recordkeeping system to comply with Rule 1005. Specifically, the Commission estimates that,
for each SCI entity other than an SCI SRO, setting up or modifying a recordkeeping system
would create an initial burden of 170 hours and $900 in information technology costs for
purchasing software. 1753 Therefore, the Commission estimates a total initial burden of 3,315
hours 1754 and a total initial cost of $15,300 for all such SCI entities. 1755

1750

See Supporting Statement for the Paperwork Reduction Act Information Collection
Submissions for Rule 17a-1, available at: http://www.reginfo.gov.

1751

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18154, n. 458.

1752

25 hours × 17 non-SRO SCI entities = 425 hours.

1753

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18154, n. 460. The Commission believes that
this burden estimate includes the burden imposed by Rule 1007. Specifically, Rule 1007
provides that, if the records required to be filed or kept by an SCI entity under Regulation
SCI are prepared or maintained by a service bureau or other recordkeeping service on
behalf of the SCI entity, the SCI entity would be required to ensure that the records are
available for review by the Commission and its representatives by submitting a written
undertaking, in a form acceptable to the Commission, by such service bureau or other
recordkeeping service, which is signed by a duly authorized person at such service bureau
or other recordkeeping service.

1754

(170 hours + 25 hours) × 17 non-SRO SCI entities = 3,315 hours.

553

Finally, the Commission continues to believe that Rule 1005(c), which requires an SCI
entity, upon or immediate prior to ceasing to do business or ceasing to be registered under the
Exchange Act, to take all necessary action to ensure that the records required to be made, kept,
and preserved by Rule 1005 remain accessible to the Commission and its representatives in the
manner and for the remainder of the period required by Rule 1005, would not result in any
additional paperwork burden that is not already accounted for in the Commission’s burden
estimates for Rule 1005(b). 1756
5.

Total Paperwork Burden under Regulation SCI

Based on the foregoing, the Commission estimates that the total one-time initial burden
for all SCI entities to comply with Regulation SCI would be 330,508 hours 1757 and the total onetime initial cost would be approximately $9.3 million. 1758 The Commission estimates that the
total annual ongoing burden for all SCI entities to comply with Regulation SCI would be
287,722 hours 1759 and the total annual ongoing cost would be approximately $5.9 million.1760

1755

$900 × 17 non-SRO SCI entities = $15,300.

1756

The Commission believes that SCI entities will comply with Rule 1005(c) by, for
example, a contractual arrangement with a recordkeeping service.

1757

330,508 hours = 54,992 hours (policies and procedures, mandate participation in certain
testing) + 257,237 (notification, dissemination, reporting) + 14,964 hours (corrective
action, identification of certain systems and events, identification of material systems
changes) + 3,315 hours (recordkeeping).

1758

$9,325,500 = $3,544,000 (policies and procedures, mandate participation in certain
testing) + $5,766,200 (notification, dissemination, reporting) + $15,300 (recordkeeping).

1759

287,722 hours = 24,942 hours (policies and procedures, mandate participation in certain
testing) + 257,231 (notification, dissemination, reporting) + 5,124 hours (corrective
action, identification of certain systems and events, identification of material systems
changes) + 425 hours (recordkeeping).

1760

$5,874,200 = $108,000 (mandate participation in certain testing) + $5,766,200
(notification, dissemination, reporting). One commenter noted that majority of the
estimated paperwork burden in the SCI Proposal relate to notifications of SCI events,
554

E.

Collection of Information is Mandatory

All collections of information pursuant to Regulation SCI is a mandatory collection of
information.
F.

Confidentiality

The Commission expects that the written policies and procedures, processes, criteria,
standards, or other written documents developed or revised by SCI entities pursuant to
Regulation SCI will be retained by SCI entities in accordance with, and for the periods specified
in Exchange Act Rule 17a-1 and Rule 1005, as applicable. Should such documents be made
available for examination or inspection by the Commission and its representatives, they would be
kept confidential subject to the provisions of applicable law. 1761 In addition, the information
submitted to the Commission pursuant to Regulation SCI that is filed on Form SCI, as required
by Rule 1006, will be treated as confidential, subject to applicable law, including amended Rule
24b-2. 1762 The information disseminated by SCI entities pursuant to Rule 1002(c) under
Regulation SCI to their members or participants will not be confidential.

rather than the writing and maintenance of the policies and procedures. See NYSE Letter
at 18. This commenter noted that creating and maintaining reasonable policies and
procedure to seek to ensure that important market systems have adequate levels of
capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security should be the main focus of the
regulation, not the reporting provisions. See NYSE Letter at 18. The Commission notes
that the burden estimates in this section relate solely to the paperwork burden of
compliance with Regulation SCI. The Commission discusses other costs associated with
compliance with Regulation SCI in the Economic Analysis section below.
1761

See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. 78x (governing the public availability of information obtained by the
Commission); 5 U.S.C. 552 et seq.

1762

See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. 78x (governing the public availability of information obtained by the
Commission); 5 U.S.C. 552 et seq. See also supra Section IV.C.2 (discussing
confidentiality treatment for Form SCI filings).

555

G.

Reduced Burden from Amendment of Rule 301(b)(6) (OMB Control
Number 3235-0509)

Adopted Regulation SCI amends Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS. 1763 Amendment of
Rule 301(b)(6) would eliminate certain collection of information requirements within the
meaning of the PRA, which the Commission had submitted to OMB in accordance with 44
U.S.C. 3507 and 5 CFR 1320.11 and OMB had approved. The approved collection of
information is titled “Rule 301: Requirements for Alternative Trading Systems and Form ATS;
ATS-R,” and the OMB control number for this collection of information is 3235-0509. 1764
Some of the information collection burdens imposed by Regulation ATS would be
reduced by the amendment of Rule 301(b)(6). Specifically, the paperwork burdens that would be
eliminated by the amendment of Rule 301(b)(6) would be: (i) burdens on ATSs that trade NMS
stocks and non-NMS stocks associated with the requirement to make records relating to any
steps taken to comply with systems capacity, integrity and security requirements under Rule

1763

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6). See also Securities Exchange Act Release No. 40760
(December 8, 1998), 63 FR 70844 (December 22, 1998) (“ATS Release”). In the SCI
Proposal, the Commission proposed that Regulation SCI would replace and supersede
Rule 301(b)(6) in its entirety. As discussed above, the Commission is now amending
Rule 301(b)(6) to remove paragraphs (i)(A) and (i)(B) so that Rule 301(b)(6) will no
longer apply to ATSs that trade NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks. However, as
described above, the Commission has determined to exclude ATSs that trade only
municipal securities or corporate debt securities from the scope of Regulation SCI, and
such ATSs will remain subject to the requirements of Rule 301(b)(6) if they meet the
volume thresholds therein. The Commission estimates that no ATS that trade only
municipal securities or corporate debt securities currently meet the thresholds of Rule
301(b)(6).

1764

See Rule 301: Requirements for Alternative Trading Systems and Form ATS; ATS-R,
OMB Control No: 3235-0509 (Rule 301 supporting statement), available at:
http://www.reginfo.gov. This approval has an expiration date of April 30, 2017.

556

301(b)(6) (estimated to be 20 hours); 1765 and (ii) burdens on ATSs that trade NMS stocks and
non-NMS stocks associated with the requirement to provide notices to the Commission to report
systems outages (estimated to be 2.5 hours). 1766 The Commission received no comments
regarding the reduced paperwork burdens from the proposal to repeal Rule 301(b)(6) of
Regulation ATS.
VI.

Economic Analysis
A.

Overview

The Commission is sensitive to the economic effects, including the costs and benefits, of
its rules. When engaging in rulemaking pursuant to the Exchange Act that requires the
Commission to consider or determine whether an action is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act requires the Commission to consider, in addition to the
1765

The Commission estimated that two alternative trading systems that register as brokerdealers and comply with Regulation ATS would trigger this requirement, and that the
average compliance burden for each response would be 10 hours of in-house professional
work at $379 per hour. Thus, the total compliance burden per year was estimated to be 20
hours (2 respondents × 10 hours = 20 hours). See Rule 301: Requirements for Alternative
Trading Systems OMB Control No: 3235-0509 (Rule 301 supporting statement),
available at: http://www.reginfo.gov. As discussed above, the Commission is amending
Rule 301(b)(6) so that it will no longer apply to ATSs that trade NMS stocks and nonNMS stocks. ATSs that trade only municipal securities or corporate debt securities will
remain subject to the requirements of Rule 301(b)(6), but the Commission estimates that
no such ATS currently meets the thresholds of Rule 301(b)(6).

1766

The Commission estimated that two alternative trading systems that register as brokerdealers and comply with Regulation ATS would meet the volume thresholds that trigger
systems outage notice obligations approximately 5 times a year, and that the average
compliance burden for each response would be .25 hours of in-house professional work at
$379 per hour. Thus, the total compliance burden per year was estimated to be 2.5 hours (2
respondents × 5 responses each × .25 hours = 2.5 hours). See id. As discussed above, the
Commission is amending Rule 301(b)(6) so that it will no longer apply to ATSs that trade
NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks. ATSs that trade only municipal securities or
corporate debt securities will remain subject to the requirements of Rule 301(b)(6), but
the Commission estimates that no such ATS currently meets the thresholds of Rule
301(b)(6).

557

protection of investors, whether the action will promote efficiency, competition, and capital
formation. 1767 In addition, Section 23(a)(2) of the Exchange Act requires the Commission in
making rules pursuant to the Exchange Act to consider the impact any such rule would have on
competition. The Exchange Act prohibits the Commission from adopting any rule that would
impose a burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of
the Exchange Act. 1768
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission solicited comment on the economic effects of the
proposed rules, including any effects that the proposed rules may have on efficiency,
competition, and capital formation. The Commission also solicited comment on its
representation of current practices and its characterization of the relevant markets in which SCI
entities participate. In addition, the Commission solicited comment on reasonable alternatives to
the proposed rules and their economic effects. The Commission encouraged commenters to
identify, discuss, analyze, and supply relevant data, information, or statistics regarding any
economic effects.
The Commission received many comment letters that addressed the Commission’s
economic analysis of the proposed rules. 1769 As described further below, some commenters
stated that the Commission underestimated the costs (including, for example, the proposed rules’

1767

15 U.S.C. 78c(f).

1768

15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2).

1769

See, e.g., Tellefsen Letter; Angel Letter; MSRB Letter; OCC Letter; BIDS Letter; ISE
Letter; Leuchtkafer Letter; Better Markets Letter; CAST Letter; FINRA Letter; CISQ
Letter; Fidelity Letter; CME Letter; Omgeo Letter; Lauer Letter; SIFMA Letter; SunGard
Letter; NYSE Letter; BATS Letter; FIA PTG Letter; ITG Letter; KCG Letter; UBS
Letter; Joint SROs Letter; and TMC Letter.

558

potential to impact innovation and create barriers to entry) of compliance with Regulation
SCI. 1770 Other commenters believed that the costs are justified by the benefits of the rules. 1771
As discussed above in Section I, a confluence of factors has contributed to the
Commission’s determination that it is necessary and appropriate at this time to address the
technological vulnerabilities, and improve Commission oversight, of the core technology of key
U.S. securities markets entities, including national securities exchanges and associations,
significant ATSs, clearing agencies, and plan processors. These considerations include: the
evolution of the markets to become significantly more dependent on sophisticated, complex, and
interconnected technology; the current successes and limitations of the ARP Inspection Program;
the significant number of, and lessons learned from, recent systems issues at exchanges and other
trading venues, 1772 including increased concerns over “single points of failure” in the securities
markets; and the views of a wide variety of commenters received in response to the SCI
Proposal.
Regulation SCI codifies, updates, and expands the existing ARP Inspection Program in
an effort to further the goals of the national market system. Regulation SCI is intended to help to
ensure the capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security of the automated systems of
entities important to the functioning of the U.S. securities markets. Regulation SCI is also

1770

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 2-3; NYSE Letter at 2; UBS Letter at 5; and Omgeo Letter at 2.

1771

See, e.g., Lauer Letter at 7 (commenting that cost burden should not be an appropriate
reason to omit an SCI entity and that, if the burden to ensure secure, stable systems is too
high for an entity, that entity should not be allowed to be in a position to impact the
market); and Better Markets Letter at 9-12 (commenting that the Commission’s
preeminent duty when promulgating rules is to protect investors and the public interest,
and these goals should not be subordinate to industry concerns over the cost of
regulation).

1772

See supra note 15 and accompanying text.

559

intended to strengthen the U.S. securities market infrastructure and improve the resilience of the
U.S. securities markets when technological issues arise. Moreover, Regulation SCI is intended
to reinforce the requirement that SCI entities operate their systems in compliance with the
Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.
As adopted, Regulation SCI will apply to SCI SROs (including national securities
exchanges, 1773 national securities associations, 1774 registered clearing agencies, and the MSRB),
SCI ATSs, plan processors, and certain exempt clearing agencies. 1775 As such, Regulation SCI
covers the trading of NMS stocks, OTC equities, and listed options. As discussed below,
Regulation SCI also will impact multiple markets for services, including the markets for trading
services, listing services, regulation and surveillance services, clearance and settlement services,
and market data.
B.

Economic Baseline

The Commission recognizes that any economic effects, including costs and benefits and
effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation, should be compared to a baseline that
accounts for current practices. The description of current practices below is based, among other
things, on the Commission’s understanding of the current practices under the ARP Inspection
Program (including current practices influenced by staff guidance related to the ARP Inspection
Program), the requirements under Regulation ATS, rules of SROs, information provided by
1773

Regulation SCI will not apply to an exchange that lists or trades security futures products
that is notice-registered with the Commission as a national securities exchange pursuant
to Section 6(g) of the Exchange Act, including security futures exchanges. See supra
note 78 and accompanying text.

1774

Regulation SCI will not apply to limited purpose national securities associations
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 15A(k) of the Exchange Act. See
supra note 78 and accompanying text.

1775

See supra Section IV.A.1 (discussing the definition of SCI entities).

560

commenters, and current practices and staff guidance related to systems compliance-related
issues.
As noted above, all active registered clearing agencies, all registered national securities
exchanges, FINRA, two plan processors, one ATS, and one exempt clearing agency currently
participate in the ARP Inspection Program. Under the ARP Policy Statements and through the
ARP Inspection Program, these entities, among other things, are expected to establish current
and future capacity estimates; conduct capacity stress tests; and conduct annual reviews that
cover significant elements of the operations of the automation process, including the capacity
planning and testing process, contingency planning, systems development methodology, and
vulnerability assessments. When conducting an ARP inspection, Commission staff also
evaluates whether an ARP entity’s controls over its information technology resources in nine
general areas, or information technology “domains,” is consistent with ARP and industry
guidelines. 1776 The ARP Policy Statements and staff letters also address, among other things, the
reporting of certain systems changes, intrusions, and outages, and the need to comply with
relevant laws and rules. 1777 Many participants in the ARP Inspection Program have developed
current practices that to some extent overlap with the requirements of Regulation SCI. These
practices are discussed in more detail throughout this economic analysis.
The ARP Policy Statements and the ARP Inspection Program address systems that
directly support trading, clearance and settlement, order routing, and market data, which are a

1776

See supra Section II.A (discussing the ARP Policy Statements and Commission staff
letters).

1777

See id.

561

subset of the systems covered by Regulation SCI. 1778 Additionally, Commission staff currently
inspects all the categories of systems that are included in the adopted definition of “SCI systems”
to varying degrees. 1779 In general, the Commission believes that, to varying degrees, entities
participating in the ARP Inspection Program establish current and future capacity estimates,
conduct periodic capacity stress tests, and conduct an annual independent assessment of whether
their automated systems can perform adequately at their estimated capacity levels and whether
these systems have adequate protection against threats. 1780 Additionally, entities participating in
the ARP Inspection Program provide to the Commission and its staff reports relating to system
changes and reviews, as well as information regarding systems outages.
In addition, as discussed above, pursuant to Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS, certain
aspects of the ARP Policy Statements apply to ATSs that meet the thresholds set forth in that
rule. 1781 Currently, the Commission believes that only one ATS meets such thresholds and, thus,
is required by Commission rule to implement systems safeguard measures. There is also one
ATS that voluntarily participates in the ARP Inspection Program. Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation
1778

See infra note 1900 and accompanying text.

1779

Commission staff inspects systems that are not directly related to trading, clearance and
settlement, order routing, or market data if staff detects red flags. See Proposing Release,
supra note 13, at 18158.

1780

See ARP I Release and ARP II Release, supra note 1.

1781

Specifically, Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS applies to ATSs that, during at least four
of the preceding six months, had: (A) with respect to any NMS stock, 20 percent or more
of the average daily volume reported by an effective transaction reporting plan; (B) with
respect to equity securities that are not NMS stocks and for which transactions are
reported to a self-regulatory organization, 20 percent or more of the average daily volume
as calculated by the self-regulatory organization to which such transactions are reported;
(C) with respect to municipal securities, 20 percent or more of the average daily volume
traded in the United States; or (D) with respect to corporate debt securities, 20 percent or
more of the average daily volume traded in the United States. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(6)(i).

562

ATS includes requirements that are similar to the requirements underlying the policies and
procedures required by Rule 1001(a)(2) of Regulation SCI. Specifically, Rule 301(b)(6) under
Regulation ATS requires relevant ATSs to establish certain capacity estimates, conduct periodic
capacity stress tests of critical systems, develop and implement reasonable procedures to review
and keep current systems development and testing methodology, review the vulnerability of their
systems and data center computer operations to specified threats, establish adequate contingency
and disaster recovery plans, conduct an independent review of its systems controls annually for
ensuring that Rules 301(b)(6)(ii)(A)-(E) are met and conduct a review by senior management of
a report of the independent review, and promptly notify the Commission of certain systems
outages and systems changes. Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS, however, applies only to
systems that support order entry, order routing, order execution, transaction reporting, and trade
comparison, 1782 which is more targeted than the adopted definition of “SCI system.”
The Commission recognizes that market participants that do not participate in the ARP
Inspection Program and are not subject to Regulation ATS also take measures consistent with
certain aspects of Regulation SCI to avoid systems disruptions, compliance issues, and
intrusions. For example, the Commission believes that many market participants document
systems events as prudent and standard business practice, even when the entity is not an ARP
participant or does not report the incident as an ARP participant. Additionally, commenters
provided information about their practices for maintaining suitable levels of systems capacity,
integrity, resiliency, availability, and security. As discussed in Section IV.B.1, the Commission
understands that some SCI entities are already following technology standards such as ISO

1782

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(ii).

563

27000 and COBIT. 1783 One commenter also stated that NFPA-1600 or BS 25999 was useful for
contingency planning. 1784 Commenters also provided less specific information on current
practices that allow the Commission to gauge current practices. For example, one commenter
stated that SCI entities commonly review a variety of different standards for frameworks or best
practices, and then adopt a derivative of multiple standards, customizing them for the systems at
issue. 1785 In addition, another commenter stated that the financial services industry currently
uses processes for software development that are more “nimble” than the frameworks listed in
Table A, such as the NIST publication under the Systems Development Methodology
domain. 1786
FINRA members, including ATSs, are also subject to FINRA rules that are generally
related to certain aspects of Regulation SCI. 1787 For example, NASD Rule 3010(b)(1) requires a
member to establish, maintain, and enforce written procedures to supervise the types of business
in which it engages and to supervise the activities of registered representatives, registered
principals, and other associated persons that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
applicable securities laws and regulations. However, this NASD rule does not specifically
address compliance of the systems of FINRA members and does not cover more broadly policies

1783

See text accompanying supra note 606.

1784

See ISE Letter at 11.

1785

See NYSE Letter at 20.

1786

See BATS Letter at 6-7 (commenting that the NIST publication reflects a burdensome
staged process to software development that favors the “waterfall methodology” over
“agile” software development).

1787

See supra note 115. As noted above, although these rules have some broad relation to
certain aspects of Regulation SCI, the Commission is not persuaded that the rules, even
when taken together, are an appropriate substitute for the comprehensive approach in
Regulation SCI with respect to technology systems and system issues. See id.

564

and procedures relating to operational capability. Additionally, FINRA Rule 3130 requires a
member’s chief compliance officer to certify that the member has in place written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable FINRA rules, MSRB
rules, and federal securities laws and regulations. Again, this FINRA rule does not specifically
address compliance of the systems of FINRA members and does not cover more broadly policies
and procedures relating to operational capability. Further, FINRA Rule 4530 imposes a
reporting regime for, among other things, compliance issues and other events where a member
has concluded or should have reasonably concluded that a violation of securities or other
enumerated law, rule, or regulation of any domestic or foreign regulatory body or SRO has
occurred. However, the reporting requirements of FINRA Rule 4530 are different in several
respects from the Commission notification requirements under Regulation SCI relating to
systems compliance issues (e.g., scope, timing, content, the recipient of the reports) and would
not cover reporting of systems disruptions or systems intrusions that did not also involve a
violation of a securities law, rule, or regulation. In addition, FINRA Rule 4370 generally
requires that a member maintain a written continuity plan identifying procedures relating to an
emergency or significant business disruption. However, as compared to adopted Rules
1001(a)(2)(v) and 1004, this FINRA rule does not include a requirement that the business
continuity and disaster recovery plans be reasonably designed to achieve next business day
resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of critical SCI systems following a wide-scale
disruption, nor does it require the functional and performance testing and coordination of
industry or sector-testing of such plans.
Commenters addressed the Commission’s consideration of current practices under the
ARP Inspection Program as part of the baseline. According to a commenter, the ARP Inspection

565

Program was implemented many years ago in a series of policy statements setting out guidance
for voluntary compliance, and was supplemented with informal Commission staff guidance over
the years, in many cases before the relevant systems existed.1788 This commenter also noted that
Regulation SCI is a mandatory regulation with a more expansive nature, differentiating the
proposed regulation from the voluntary, targeted scope of the ARP Inspection Program. 1789
Some commenters believed that the Commission performed the economic analysis from a faulty
premise by assuming that SCI entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program have been
in compliance with the voluntary standards and that the cost of compliance with Regulation SCI
would merely be incremental as compared with the current baseline cost of voluntary compliance
with the ARP regime. 1790 One commenter noted that there is no publicly available information
on voluntary compliance under the ARP Inspection Program, and the Commission should
calculate the actual cost based on its knowledge of the extent to which SCI entities currently
participating in the ARP Inspection Program are actually in compliance with ARP, rather than
simply assuming full compliance. 1791
In response to these comments, the Commission believes that current practices under the
ARP Inspection Program continue to be relevant in an economic assessment of Regulation SCI
and the current baseline. In particular, as described in more detail throughout the economic

1788

See NYSE Letter at 2, 6-7. This commenter noted that the ARP Inspection Program was
never subject to Commission rulemaking, including notice and public comment, and a
cost-benefit analysis. See id. at 6. This commenter further stated that if the Commission
were to move forward with Regulation SCI, it should first engage in a detailed public
analysis of the costs and benefits of the existing ARP Inspection Program. See id. at 2.

1789

See id. at 6.

1790

See ISE Letter at 11; and Joint SROs Letter at 18.

1791

See ISE Letter at 11.

566

analysis, based on comments and staff experience, the Commission believes that ARP entities
have developed practices that to some extent overlap with the requirements of Regulation SCI.
Accordingly, the Commission believes that, for some entities, the economic effects associated
with compliance with Regulation SCI will be less significant as these entities will need to make
incremental adjustments to their current practices to comply with many of the requirements.
The Commission recognizes that there is no publicly available information on voluntary
compliance under the ARP Inspection Program. At the same time, the Commission and its staff
have overseen the ARP Inspection Program for over two decades and notes that participants in
the ARP Inspection Program generally follow the ARP Policy Statements. The Commission also
notes that, in the ARP II Release, it stated that Commission staff and the SROs have discussed
the independent review process, “taking into account that the SROs already engage in testing and
quality assurance reviews of new or modified systems, and that there are other significant
controls in place to prevent, detect or correct problems in such areas as capacity planning,
testing, systems development, vulnerability and contingency planning.” 1792 The Commission is
not assuming in the economic analysis that each SCI entity is fully in compliance with the ARP
Inspection Program. Rather, the Commission’s and its staff’s experience informs the
Commission’s view regarding the range of existing practices of SCI entities. The Commission
recognizes that some participants in the ARP Inspection Program may also have adopted
practices that are not precisely in line with the standards articulated in the ARP Policy
Statements and other Commission policy statements. As discussed throughout this economic
analysis, the Commission has considered what the economic effects, including the costs and
benefits of complying with Regulation SCI, will be for those entities that may not have practices
1792

See ARP II, supra note 1, at 22491.

567

consistent with the standards articulated in the ARP Policy Statements. For example, some SRO
backup facilities may be less geographically dispersed from the primary facilities than articulated
in the 2003 BCP Policy Statement. 1793 Further, some SROs may report systems issues or
changes to the Commission in a manner different from what is articulated in the ARP Policy
Statements and Commission staff letters. Instead of assuming full compliance with the ARP
Inspection Program, throughout the economic analysis the Commission notes that some SCI
entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program have current practices that already satisfy
some of the requirements of Regulation SCI and considers the details of those current practices
when assessing the economic effects of the rules.
Finally, in using the ARP Inspection Program as a component of the baseline, the
Commission also recognizes that Regulation SCI is more expansive than the ARP Inspection
Program and has taken this fact into consideration throughout the economic analysis. For
example, among other things, Regulation SCI includes more expansive requirements compared
to the ARP Inspection Program for the establishment of policies and procedures regarding
systems capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, security, and compliance; and annual
business continuity and disaster recovery plans testing. In addition, the Commission is aware
that more entities will be subject to Regulation SCI than are currently participating in the ARP
Inspection Program, including a higher number of ATSs. The Commission has considered these
differences in the economic analysis.
The sections below describe in more detail the Commission’s understanding of current
practices related to areas covered by Regulation SCI, as informed by its experience with the ARP
Inspection Program, the OCIE examination program, as well as by commenters. In particular,
1793

See 2003 BCP Policy Statement, supra note 504, at 56658.

568

the sections below provide an overview of the frequency and the types of systems issues
addressed by Regulation SCI (i.e., systems disruptions, systems intrusions, and systems
compliance issues) and current practices related to these events, as well as current practices
related to business continuity and disaster recovery, and material systems changes notifications.
Additionally, the sections below include a summary of the current competitive landscape in
various markets for services related to Regulation SCI and why the markets for these services do
not provide an adequate competitive incentive to prevent the occurrence of these market events
and reduce the duration and severity when they occur. 1794 Details regarding the baseline for
certain specific current practices relevant to specific provisions of Regulation SCI are discussed
throughout the consideration of costs and benefits and the effect on efficiency, competition, and
capital formation below.
1.

SCI Events
a.

Systems Disruptions and Intrusions

Currently, market participants use an array of preventive and corrective measures to
avoid systems disruptions and to restore systems when disruptions occur, including escalation
procedures to notify management of disruptions. The range of preventive and corrective
measures varies among market participants and SCI entities, and also differs among the systems
employed by SCI entities. For instance, clearing systems and order matching engines generally
are given higher priority by SCI entities than other SCI entity systems.
Also, as noted by a commenter, exchanges, member firms, and ATSs conduct regular and
ad hoc testing of mission critical systems for the introduction of new software releases, new

1794

Throughout this Economic Analysis, the general concept of a reduction of SCI events
may refer to fewer events, shorter duration of events, and/or less severe events.

569

features and functions, and systems upgrades, among other things. 1795 This commenter also
noted that the internal IT staff of exchanges, ATSs, trading platform providers, and clearing
houses conduct regular systems testing, regression testing, stress testing, and failover testing to
ensure the availability, capacity, resilience, and readiness of newly introduced systems,
applications, products, and system functions. 1796 However, industry practices are not codified as
requirements for SCI entities and systems, except as may be the case in an entity’s rulebook or
subscriber agreement.
Market participants also employ a wide variety of measures to prevent and respond to
systems intrusions, including escalation procedures to notify management of intrusions.
Generally, market participants use measures such as firewalls to prevent systems intrusions, and
use detection software to identify systems intrusions. Once an intrusion has been identified, the
affected systems typically would be isolated and quarantined, and forensics would be performed.
While there have been instances in which SCI entities revealed systems issues (including
disruptions and intrusions) to their members or participants and to the public in the past, 1797 there
currently is no requirement applicable to SCI entities that includes the level of specificity in
1795

See Tellefsen Letter at 11.

1796

See id.

1797

One instance of a publicly reported systems intrusion at an SCI entity occurred in
February 2011, when NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. revealed that hackers had penetrated
certain of its computer networks, though Nasdaq reported that at no point did this
intrusion compromise Nasdaq’s trading systems. See Proposing Release, supra note 13,
at 18089. One commenter also stated that when systems issues arise that impact
subscriber access, functionality, or security, each potential SCI entity informs its
subscribers of the problem and the expected solution, and generally follows with a post
mortem. According to this commenter, some entities provide this notice pursuant to a
contract or general agreement with subscribers, while others do so in order to maintain
and grow their subscriber base. See OTC Markets Letter at 19. See also supra Section
II.B (describing recent events involving systems-related issues, which have been made
public).

570

Regulation SCI for dissemination of information regarding systems disruptions and systems
intrusions, as those terms are defined in Regulation SCI, to affected members or participants or
to all members or participants of an SCI entity.
In 2013, entities that participated in the ARP Inspection Program, including at least one
of each type of such participants (i.e., national securities exchange, national securities
association, registered clearing agency, plan processor, ATS, and exempt clearing agency),
reported a total of approximately 357 systems disruptions to the Commission. 1798 These
incidents had durations ranging from under one hour to well over several hours, with most
incidents having a duration of less than three hours. 1799 The Commission has also tracked the
percentage of market outages at SROs and electronic communications networks, which were
self-reported to the Commission or identified by Commission staff, that were corrected within
targeted timeframes. Specifically, in fiscal year 2013, 80% of outages were resolved within 2
hours, 86% were resolved within 4 hours, and 98% were resolved within 24 hours. 1800
b.

Systems Compliance Issues

1798

One commenter believes that ATSs have not contributed to the recent major systems
issues that have impacted the market. See ITG letter at 4. However, as the Commission
has noted, FINRA halted trading for over 3 ½ hours in all OTC equity securities due to a
lack of availability of quotation information resulting from a connectivity issue
experienced by OTC Markets Group Inc.’s OTC Link ATS. See supra note 33 and
accompanying text.

1799

The Commission acknowledges that the number of systems incidents reported to the
Commission by entities that participated in the ARP Inspection Program represents the
lower end of expected SCI events under Regulation SCI because the definition of “SCI
event” is broader than the types of events covered by the current ARP Inspection
Program. See supra Section V.D.2.a.

1800

See U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission FY 2015 Annual Performance Plan, at 26
(March 7, 2014), available at: http://www.sec.gov/about/reports/
secfy15congbudgjust.pdf.

571

Currently, systems compliance issues are not covered by the ARP Inspection Program.
However, the Commission notes that all SROs are required to comply with the Exchange Act,
the rules and regulations thereunder, and their own rules and governing documents, as
applicable, 1801 and securities information processors and ATSs are subject to similar
requirements. 1802
Further, SROs currently take steps to ensure that their systems’ operations are consistent
with the federal securities laws and rules and their own rules, and some SROs notify
Commission staff of certain systems compliance issues. 1803 In particular, the Commission
understands that SCI SROs generally have procedures to escalate a compliance issue upon
discovery, to include legal and compliance personnel in the review of systems changes, and to
periodically review rulebooks. However, although some SCI entities currently notify the
Commission of certain systems compliance issues, the Commission does not receive
comprehensive data regarding such issues.
Similar to systems disruptions and systems intrusions, while there have been instances in
which SCI entities revealed systems compliance-related issues to their members or participants
and to the public in the past, 1804 there currently is no requirement applicable to SCI entities that
1801

See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. 78s(g) (requiring each SRO to comply with the Exchange Act, the
rules and regulations thereunder, and its own rules).

1802

See, e.g., 15 U.S.C. 78k-1(b)(6); 15 U.S.C. 78k-1(c)(1); and FINRA Rule 3130.
Moreover, ATSs are registered broker-dealers and may be subject to Commission
sanctions if they fail to comply with relevant federal securities laws and rules and
regulations thereunder.

1803

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18087, n. 36. As part of the Commission’s
oversight of SROs, OCIE reviews systems compliance issues reported to Commission
staff.

1804

See supra Section II.B (describing recent events involving systems-related issues, which
have been made public).
572

includes the level of specificity in Regulation SCI for dissemination of information regarding
systems compliance issues, as that term is defined in Regulation SCI, to affected members or
participants, or to all members or participants of an SCI entity.
In the SCI Proposal, based on Commission staff’s experience with SROs and the rule
filing process, the Commission estimated that there are likely approximately seven systems
compliance issues per SCI entity per year. No commenter provided additional information
regarding the frequency of systems compliance issues. However, Commission staff received
notifications indicating that certain SROs experienced an average of 17 systems compliancerelated issues in 2013. The Commission believes that its staff received notification of a larger
number of systems compliance issues in 2013 for a variety of reasons, including the proposal of
Regulation SCI, recent Commission enforcement actions relating to systems compliance issues,
as well as related press reports, all of which the Commission believes increased attention on
systems compliance issues. 1805
2.

Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery

The Commission recognizes that SCI entities already have business continuity and
disaster recovery plans. For example, nearly all national securities exchanges already have
backup facilities that do not rely on the same infrastructure components as those used by their
primary facility. 1806 Additionally, most participants in the ARP Inspection Program have strived
to adhere to the recovery timeframes in the Interagency White Paper and the 2003 BCP Policy

1805

See id.

1806

See, e.g., CBOE Regulatory Circular RG14-001 (Back-Up Data Center Test on January
25, 2014).

573

Statement. 1807 Some SCI entities also already require some of their members or participants to
connect to their backup systems. 1808 Further, some SCI entities already provide their members or
participants with the opportunity to test the SCI entity’s business continuity and disaster recovery
plans, including its backup systems. 1809 However, because participation in BC/DR testing,
including backup systems, is not always required by SCI entities, the Commission understands
that not all market participants participate in testing. 1810 In addition, based on the discussions
between Commission staff and market participants in the months following Superstorm Sandy,
the Commission understands that many market participants had previously engaged in
connectivity testing with backup facilities, and yet remained uncomfortable about switching to
the use of backup facilities in advance of the storm.
Commenters also provided information regarding current practices surrounding business
continuity and disaster recovery. One commenter noted that the major equity and options
exchanges and numerous ATSs already regularly augment IT testing with other business
continuity management exercises (e.g., they conduct annual business continuity and disaster
recovery plan updates, building evacuation drills, and business disruption scenario planning
workshops). 1811 This commenter also noted that all of the U.S. exchanges and clearinghouses
have participated in the planning and execution of the annual disaster recovery test initiative

1807

See supra note 504 and accompanying text.

1808

See, e.g., CBOE Regulatory Circular RG13-110 (Connectivity to the CBOE Back-Up
Data Center). See also Proposing Release, supra note 13, at n. 641.

1809

For example, SIFMA organizes industry-wide business continuity tests. See Industry
Testing, http://www.sifma.org/services/bcp/industry-testing/.

1810

See, e.g., Angel Letter at 9-10.

1811

See Tellefsen Letter at 7.

574

conducted and coordinated by the FIA and SIFMA. 1812 This commenter noted that, in 2012, for
example, the annual FIA industry test involved 18 exchanges and clearinghouses, 68 futures
commission merchants, and 46 trading participant firms. 1813 This commenter also noted that the
exchanges reported that the firms engaged in testing represented approximately 80% of their
clearing members and that these firms reflected approximately 85% of the exchanges’ 2012
volumes. 1814
3.

Material Systems Changes Notifications

Many entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program already voluntarily provide
material systems change notifications to the Commission on an annual and ad hoc basis. In
particular, the ARP II Release stated that SROs should notify Commission staff of significant
additions, deletions, or other changes to their automated systems. 1815 Moreover, in the 2001
Staff ARP Interpretive Letter, Commission staff provided guidance to ARP entities on how they
should report planned systems changes to the Commission.1816 In addition, Rule 301(b)(6) under
Regulation ATS requires that ATSs that meet the thresholds in that rule notify Commission staff
of significant systems changes, 1817 and Rule 301(b)(2) under Regulation ATS requires each ATS

1812

See id.

1813

See id. at 8.

1814

See id. See also CME Letter at 12.

1815

See ARP II Release, supra note 1, at 22491.

1816

See supra note 21 and accompanying text. The 2001 Staff ARP Interpretive Letter
provided guidance on what Commission staff considers significant systems changes to
include.

1817

17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(ii)(G).

575

that is subject to Rule 301, regardless of activity level, to file an amendment on Form ATS at
least 20 days prior to implementing a material change to the operation of the ATS. 1818
4.

Potential for Market Solutions

The current competitive landscape in various markets for services related to Regulation
SCI affect current incentives to prevent the occurrence of SCI events in these markets. 1819 The
Commission outlined and examined this competitive landscape and potential for market
solutions to reduce SCI events and their shortcomings in the SCI Proposal. 1820 In particular, the
Commission evaluated current limitations to competition and potential market solutions in the
markets for trading services, listing services, regulatory services, clearance and settlement
services, and market data.
The discussion below responds to comments received regarding the Commission’s
discussion of the potential for market solutions in the markets for trading services and market
data. The Commission did not receive specific comments regarding its analysis of the markets
for listing services, regulatory services, and clearance and settlement services. Therefore, the
Commission believes that its analysis of these markets in the SCI Proposal continues to apply.
Specifically, the Commission believes that, while the market for listing services provides some
discipline, it has limitations related to a disconnect between trading location and listing market
(i.e., while a company can be listed on a certain exchange, trading does not necessarily occur on
that exchange), to switching costs if an issuer wishes to change its listing exchange, and to
1818

17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(ii) (requiring an amendment to Form ATS not solely for material
systems changes, but also for any material change to the operation of an ATS).

1819

This section evaluates competition as it currently exists. The Commission analyzes the
economic effects of Regulation SCI, including potential effects on competition, in
Section VI.C.

1820

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18159-61.

576

market power deriving from the “prestige” of a listing exchange. 1821 Further, the Commission
believes that the market for regulatory and surveillance services is concentrated in a few
competitors and that the market for clearance and settlement services is currently characterized
by specialization and limited competition. 1822
The Commission has considered the views of commenters and the Commission’s analysis
of markets not addressed by commenters, and continues to believe that market forces alone are
insufficient to significantly reduce SCI events in the markets that it evaluated and that a
regulatory solution is needed. In particular, the Commission continues to believe that SCI
entities do not fully internalize the costs associated with systems issues, SCI events pose
significant negative externalities on the market—i.e., systems issues have ramifications on the
securities markets beyond the impact on the entity responsible for the systems issues—and, as
discussed above, significant technology issues continue to occur in the absence of regulation.
Some commenters broadly addressed the potential for market solutions evaluated in the
SCI Proposal. According to one commenter, SCI entities (e.g., ATSs) are highly motivated to
provide uninterrupted order matching services for economic reasons. 1823 On the other hand,
another commenter noted that, as indicated by the 2008 financial crisis and the technology
incidents over the past few years, market participants do not have the right economic incentives
to protect themselves. 1824 Another commenter stated that, in the past, “disruptive or deviant
1821

See id. at 18160.

1822

See id. at 18160-61.

1823

See ITG Letter at 4 (stating also that sponsors of ATSs have a “compelling business
incentive to avoid systems issues”). See also Angel Letter at 5-6 (commenting that firms
have sufficient motivation to take every precaution against catastrophic failures, although
the interaction between firms may result in a catastrophic event).

1824

See Lauer Letter at 3-4.
577

behavior in the markets was disciplined not just by regulators but also by trading crowds,” but
anonymity and fully automated price/time matching made it impossible for the trading crowd to
attribute and sanction disruptive behavior. 1825 This commenter also noted that market incentives
can drive the industry in the opposite direction (i.e., short-term market incentives can drive the
industry to minimize risk controls). 1826 According to this commenter, the only practical source
of discipline left is government regulation. 1827
The Commission believes that all SCI entities have some incentives to maintain robust
systems in order to maximize long-term revenue. However, as evidenced by the various systems
issues that have occurred prior to and since publication of the SCI Proposal, economic
motivations alone have not been sufficient to significantly reduce systems issues. 1828 In addition,
although SCI entities may suffer an economic and reputational burden if a systems issue
becomes apparent to the trading community or the public, the Commission believes that SCI
entities are not sufficiently incentivized to improve the robustness of these systems to prevent
systems issues, as described in more detail below. 1829 Further, SCI entities may fail to
internalize the risk of catastrophic failure associated with systems issues.

1825

See Leuchtkafer Letter at 1-2.

1826

See id. at 6. This commenter stated that it is far cheaper for firms to implement new
trading strategies “in a matter of minutes” than it is for them to rigorously test a new
strategy before deployment, and that it is more profitable for firms to skimp on risk
controls because controls take time. See id. Further, this commenter noted that the
exchanges know, or should know, who “misbehaves,” but they are tangled in mixed
incentives of their own, dependent on firms for the next quarter’s profits and, at the same
time, expected to moderate the firms’ behavior. See id.

1827

See id. at 6-7.

1828

See supra Section II.B (discussing recent events involving systems-related issues).

1829

As noted above, the Commission acknowledges that the nature of technology and the
level of sophistication and automation of current market systems prevent any measure,
578

As noted above, systems issues have ramifications on the securities markets beyond the
impact on the entity responsible for or experiencing the systems issues (an “economic
externality”). That is, a systems issue not only affects the entity responsible for the issue, but
also directly affects other entities that use that entity. Often, when an SCI entity experiences a
systems issue, all market participants that use that entity incur costs. For example, if market data
systems fail, it affects anyone requiring such market data to make informed decisions. Also,
when a matching engine fails, securities cannot be traded via that functionality. As discussed in
greater detail below, the failure of a trading system not only forces the venue to forgo revenue,
but also can diminish trading in financial instruments during the disruption. Additionally, the
failure of a trading system can impose costs on market participants that have optimized their
strategy so that trading costs are minimized. If the strategy of these market participants assumes
that all trading venues are fully operational, then the failure of a trading system could impose
additional transaction costs. The Commission believes that, in part because the costs of such
externalities are not fully borne by SCI entities in the form of lost business, market forces alone
are insufficient to significantly reduce SCI events.
Market for Trading Services
In the proposing release, the Commission identified many competitors in the market for
trading services, including equities exchanges, options exchanges, ATSs, OTC market makers,
and broker-dealers. 1830 Competitors for listed-equity (NMS) trading services include 11 national

regulatory or otherwise, from completely eliminating all systems disruptions, intrusions,
or other systems issues. See supra Section III.
1830

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18159.

579

securities exchanges, none having an overall market share of 20 percent, 1831 44 ATSs, which
account for 18% of dollar volume, and several hundred OTC market makers and broker-dealers,
which account for 15.8% of dollar volume. 1832 In the SCI Proposal, the Commission recognized
that all providers of trading services compete and have incentives to avoid systems disruptions,
systems compliance issues, and systems intrusions because, for example, brokers and other
entities will be inclined to route orders away from trading venues that have frequent systems
problems. However, the Commission noted several limitations on competition, including market
participants misjudging the quality of trading services because of incomplete information
regarding SCI events and the limited number of competitors (in some cases only one competitor)
that may offer trading services in a particular product. 1833
With respect to the market for trading services, one commenter stated that the current
competitive market for trading services provides sufficient redundancies that make a disruption
at any particular service provider minor. 1834 Another commenter noted that exchanges compete
vigorously with one another and against broker-dealer execution platforms and cannot afford to

1831

See supra note 106 and accompanying text.

1832

Calculated by Commission staff using market volume statistics reported by BATS and
data from Form ATS-R for the second quarter of 2014. See supra notes 106 and 150. In
2012, 255 OTC market makers and broker-dealers accounted for 17% of volume. See
DERA staff white papers, “Alternative Trading Systems: Description of ATS Trading in
National Market System Stocks” by Laura Tuttle
(http://www.sec.gov/marketstructure/research/alternative-trading-systems-march2014.pdf) and “OTC Trading: Description of Non-ATS OTC Trading in National Market
System Stocks” by Laura Tuttle
(http://www.sec.gov/marketstructure/research/otc_trading_march_2014.pdf).

1833

For example, a number of listed options and NMS stocks trade on only one venue.

1834

See KCG Letter at 6-8.

580

develop a reputation for technology problems. 1835 This commenter also noted that the incidence
of self-help declarations 1836 has been reduced, which reflects technology enhancements by
exchanges that are a direct result of the competitive environment in which exchanges operate. 1837
Similarly, another commenter stated that, apart from any regulatory standards, no organization
has a greater stake in assuring the effective operation of its systems than the owners and
operators of the entities that participate in the market structure. 1838 Moreover, one commenter
stated that ATSs already have incentives to avoid any systems disruptions for competitive
reasons and also perform numerous tests and employ best practices. 1839
Again, the Commission acknowledges that all providers of trading services compete and
have some incentives to avoid systems issues. However, the Commission continues to believe
that there are limits to the extent to which competition mitigates systems problems associated
with trading services because providers of trading services compete on a variety of measures—
for example, providing the best prices, deep quotes, and fast executions—not just the quality of
their systems. As a result, an issue with trading systems might not significantly harm the SCI
entity that experienced the issue. Additionally, competition in the market for trading services
may also not sufficiently mitigate the occurrence and effects of SCI events because market

1835

See BATS Letter at 2.

1836

Rule 611(b) under Regulation NMS provides a number of exceptions from the general
requirement to prevent trade-throughs of protected quotations. In particular, Rule
611(b)(1) provides the “self-help” exception, which applies when the “transaction that
constituted the trade-through was effected when the trading center displaying the
protected quotation that was traded through was experiencing a failure, material delay, or
malfunction of its systems or equipment.” See 17 CFR 242.611(b)(1).

1837

See BATS Letter at 2-3.

1838

See BIDS Letter at 2.

1839

See ITG Letter at 4.

581

participants may lack information about SCI events. The Commission believes that it is
important for affected SCI entity members or participants and, in some cases, all members or
participants of an SCI entity, to know about SCI events at a particular service provider. 1840
Moreover, even in markets where significant competition exists—such as the market for trading
NMS securities, which has many competitors including exchanges and ATSs—entities that
experience significant outages may temporarily lose market share, but may quickly regain the
lost market share. 1841 The Commission believes that this further suggests that competition alone
will not significantly reduce systems issues.
In addition, some entities that face little competition in one security may impose
significant externalities on the market with little competitive recourse. For example, even
though there may be multiple trading venues for the majority of securities, trading service
providers may have limited means to transact in particular securities (e.g., certain index options
exclusively traded on one options exchange) and thus, if systems issues persist at certain venues,
brokers, investors, and other entities will not be able to trade the security until the venue that lists
the security recovers. In this particular case, not only does the venue lose revenue from forgone
volume, but market participants also incur costs because they are not able to trade the security.
As a result, the Commission believes that competition alone in the market for trading services is
not sufficient to reduce SCI events at entities providing these services.

1840

See supra Section VI.B.1 (discussing current practices of SCI entities regarding
dissemination of information on systems-related issues).

1841

For example, on November 12, 2012, the NYSE experienced a failure in a matching
engine that forced it to stop trading 216 stocks. See NYSE Market Status Alert,
http://markets.nyx.com/nyse/market-status/view/11558. The NYSE lost market share on
the day of the outage but regained its market share the next day. See generally
http://www.batstrading.com/market_summary/ (compiling data on market share).

582

As mentioned by one commenter, 1842 competitive forces among trading venues may also
lead to “underinvestment and cutting corners.” For example, the incentive to migrate software
from testing to the production environment to improve trading services (and thereby the entity’s
profitability) may promote an environment where software that has not been adequately tested is
launched into production, thus increasing the potential for systems issues to develop.
Market for Market Data
One commenter stated that Regulation SCI, as applied to market data, is unnecessary and
will have “zero benefits” because the revenue from the sale of market data is an important
revenue source for an SRO. 1843 Therefore, according to this commenter, SROs already have the
right incentives to successfully collect, process, and disseminate market data. 1844
As noted above, the Commission has, on numerous occasions, emphasized the
importance of market data, including the consolidated data feed. 1845 The Commission believes
that consolidated market data is an important part of the investment and trading process as it
helps market participants to make well-informed investment and trading decisions, and also
helps investors to monitor the quality of execution of orders by their brokers. In addition,
exchanges rely on accurate consolidated market data for many of their real-time functions. Even
though demand is great, a total of only two SIPs collect, process, and distribute consolidated

1842

See Lauer Letter at 4 (stating that “[e]very firm in every industry is constantly balancing
the cost of safety with scarcity of resources...[and t]he Commission’s job in this regard is
to compel these firms to act in their own long-term interests, and the interests of the
public at-large, rather than any short-term interests that may be better served by
underinvestment and cutting corners”).

1843

See Angel Letter at 18-19.

1844

See id.

1845

See supra note 249 and accompanying text.

583

market data in NMS securities, and only a single SIP collects, processes, and distributes
consolidated market data for any given security. Further, other providers of market data in
markets other than NMS securities (e.g., municipal securities) may also be the sole providers of
their data. Therefore, the Commission believes that the market data consolidators are not subject
to significant competitive market forces. Further, because the demand for market data from the
SIPs is inelastic, 1846 there is little incentive to improve reliability as few alternatives exist. Thus,
the Commission believes that competition alone is not sufficient to reduce SCI events for market
data consolidators. Because an SCI event in connection with market data can significantly
disrupt markets, the Commission believes that regulation is needed and, as discussed below, will
provide significant benefits. 1847
C.

Consideration of Costs and Benefits and the Effect on Efficiency,
Competition, and Capital Formation
1.

Broad Economic Considerations

The Commission has considered the economic effects of Regulation SCI as a whole as
well as the specific effect of each rule. This section provides an overview of the broad economic
considerations relevant to Regulation SCI and the economic effects, including the costs, benefits,
and effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation that are attributable to Regulation
SCI as a whole. Additional economic effects, including benefits and costs, related to specific

1846

Demand is inelastic when demand does not diminish as price increases.

1847

For example, as discussed above, on August 22, 2013, Nasdaq halted trading in all
Nasdaq-listed securities for more than three hours after the Nasdaq SIP, the single source
of consolidated market data for Nasdaq-listed securities, became unable to process quotes
from exchanges for dissemination to the public. See supra note 32 and accompanying
text.

584

requirements in Regulation SCI and reasonable alternatives are discussed in Section VI.C.2
below.
The Commission has attempted, where possible, to quantify the benefits and costs
anticipated to flow from Regulation SCI. The Commission notes, however, that many of the
costs and benefits of Regulation SCI are difficult to quantify with any degree of certainty,
especially as the current practices of market participants vary and are expected to evolve and
adapt to changes in technology and market developments. For example, in some cases,
quantification depends heavily on factors outside of the control of the Commission, particularly
because Regulation SCI provides flexibility to an SCI entity to tailor its policies and procedures
to the nature of its business, technology, and the relative criticality of each of its SCI systems.
Additionally, in some cases, the Commission is unable to quantify the benefits and costs
associated with Regulation SCI because the Commission lacks the information necessary to
provide a reasonable estimate. For example, the Commission does not have sufficient
information upon which to base an estimate of all costs associated with the various specific
systems changes that may be required as the result of Regulation SCI. Accordingly, much of the
discussion of economic effects is qualitative in nature but, again, where possible, the
Commission has provided quantified information.
a.

Benefits

The Commission believes that the adoption of, and compliance by SCI entities with
Regulation SCI, will further the goals of the national market system as a result of each SCI entity
establishing, maintaining, and enforcing written policies and procedures reasonably designed to
ensure that its SCI systems and, for purposes of security standards, indirect SCI systems, have
levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security, adequate to maintain the SCI

585

entity’s operational capability and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets. In this
respect, Regulation SCI will promote the capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security
of the automated systems of entities important to the functioning of the U.S. securities markets,
as well as reinforce the requirement that such systems operate in compliance with the Exchange
Act and rules and regulations thereunder, thus strengthening the infrastructure of the U.S.
securities markets and improving their resilience when technological issues arise. Regulation
SCI also establishes an updated and formalized regulatory framework, thereby helping to ensure
more effective Commission oversight of such systems. Although the Commission acknowledges
that Regulation SCI likely will not eliminate all systems issues, the Commission believes that
Regulation SCI will change and strengthen the practices of SCI entities, and should result in a
number of benefits, including those summarized below. 1848
The Commission believes that adopting Regulation SCI will result in fewer market
disruptions due to systems issues, which could lead to fewer interruptions in the price discovery
process 1849 and liquidity flows and, thus, may result in fewer periods with pricing inefficiencies.
Specifically, the Commission believes that Regulation SCI would improve systems up-time for
SCI entities and also would promote more robust systems that directly support execution
facilities, order matching, and the dissemination of market data. Systems issues that directly

1848

As noted above, in the SCI Proposal, the Commission encouraged commenters to
identify, discuss, analyze, and supply relevant data, information, or statistics regarding
benefits. The Commission notes that it is unable to quantify the benefits associated with
Regulation SCI as a whole because quantitative data regarding each of the benefits is not
readily available to the Commission, and commenters did not provide sufficient
quantitative data to allow the Commission to do so.

1849

The price discovery process involves trading—buyers and sellers arriving at a transaction
price for a specific asset at a given time. Thus, generally, any trading interruptions would
interfere with the price discovery process.

586

inhibit execution facilities, order matching, and dissemination of market data could cause slow
executions and result in delaying the incorporation of information into prices, and thus could
harm price efficiency and price discovery. System issues could also result in unfilled orders,
depriving traders of an execution. The Commission believes that Regulation SCI would reduce
the frequency, severity, and duration of such effects resulting from systems issues. Moreover,
decreasing the number of trading interruptions could improve price discovery and liquidity
because interruptions in trading interfere with the process in which relevant information gets
incorporated into security prices and, thus, temporarily disrupt liquidity flows and lower the
quality of the price discovery process. Further, because interruptions in liquidity flows and the
price discovery process in one security can affect securities trading in other markets, reducing
trading interruptions could have broad effects. For example, an interruption in the market for
securities that underlie derivative securities (e.g., index options and futures) would harm the
price discovery process for those products and potentially restrict liquidity flows between the
stock market and the derivative markets.
The Commission also believes that Regulation SCI has the potential to reduce widespread
SCI events. Given the speed and interconnected nature of the U.S. securities markets, a
seemingly minor systems problem at a single entity can quickly create losses and liability for
market participants, and spread rapidly across the national market system, potentially creating
widespread damage and harm to market participants, including investors. By reducing systems
issues, Regulation SCI also has the potential to decrease the risk of these catastrophic events.
In addition, other benefits may derive from the additional information provided to the
Commission and to members or participants of an SCI entity resulting from Regulation SCI. In
particular, the information provided to the Commission should enhance the Commission’s

587

review and oversight of U.S. securities market infrastructure and foster cooperation between the
Commission and SCI entities in responding to SCI events. Also, as noted in Section IV.B.3.c,
the Commission believes that the aggregated data that will result from the reporting of SCI
events will enhance its ability to comprehensively analyze the nature and types of various SCI
events and identify more effectively areas of persistent or recurring problems across the systems
of all SCI entities. Moreover, as discussed in Section IV.A.3, the Commission notification
requirements for SCI events will help to focus the Commission’s and SCI entities’ resources on
the more significant SCI events, as the Commission has determined to distinguish the timing of
its receipt of information regarding SCI events based on their impact, with SCI events estimated
to have a greater impact being subject to “immediate” Commission notification, and SCI events
having no or a de minimis impact being subject to recordkeeping obligations, and for de minimis
systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions, a quarterly summary notification.
Moreover, the increased dissemination of information about SCI events to SCI entity members or
participants could reduce search costs for market participants when they are gathering
information to make a decision with respect to the use of an entity’s services. As discussed more
thoroughly below, by lowering search costs, the information dissemination requirement could
provide SCI entities additional competitive incentives to ensure and maintain robust policies and
procedures to promote systems capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, security and
compliance.
Some commenters addressed how the availability of Commission resources may affect
the benefits and costs of Regulation SCI. One commenter argued that Regulation SCI would

588

result in misallocation of Commission resources. 1850 This commenter stated that it is likely that
Regulation SCI would not reduce in a material manner the occurrence of systems issues at SCI
entities, and Commission staff resources would be better devoted to working with the industry to
develop best practices (not legal requirements) for all regulated entities in the areas of systems
capacity, security, and integrity. 1851 Similarly, one commenter noted that unless the Commission
and Congress devote sufficient resources to hiring enough skilled technical staff, Regulation SCI
will devolve into a paperwork exercise with little added benefit to the markets. 1852 Another
commenter stated that there is insufficient evidence regarding the resources and capacity of
Commission staff to assess and analyze the data required to be provided under Regulation
SCI. 1853 This commenter urged the Commission to consider its resources as the Commission
accommodates new initiatives. 1854
As described throughout this release, the Commission believes that Regulation SCI will
have significant benefits and that a regulatory solution is necessary because market forces alone
are insufficient to significantly reduce SCI events in the relevant markets. The Commission has
significant experience with the ARP Inspection Program, and thus has developed expertise in this
1850

See ITG Letter at 6-7. This commenter noted that Commission staff resources used to
oversee Regulation SCI compliance would dwarf those used for the ARP Inspection
Program and that Commission staff would have to analyze and act upon notifications
from SCI entities, including systems change notifications. See id. This commenter also
noted that substantial examination resources from the Commission and FINRA would be
assigned to Regulation SCI oversight. See id. Similarly, another commenter noted that
proposed Regulation SCI would result in a dramatic increase in the number of
Commission notifications and would require substantial resources for Commission staff
to process them in a responsible fashion. See Omgeo Letter at 8, n. 14.

1851

See ITG Letter at 7.

1852

See Angel Letter at 2.

1853

See SunGard Letter at 2.

1854

See id. at 5.

589

area that it will apply to implementing and monitoring compliance with Regulation SCI. In light
of this experience, the Commission believes that it can devote sufficient resources to carry out its
obligations associated with Regulation SCI so that the benefits of Regulation SCI can be
realized.
b.

Costs

Some of the costs associated with Regulation SCI are compliance costs. Compliance
costs include, for example, documentation and mandatory reporting and dissemination of SCI
events, and reports that include material systems changes. SCI entities will also incur costs in
complying with the SCI review requirement, as well as in implementing the policies and
procedures related to systems capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, security, and
compliance. Moreover, SCI entities will incur costs related to recordkeeping. Additional costs
will also result from member/participant participation in the testing of SCI entity business
continuity and disaster recovery plans. Also, market participants (including institutional and
retail investors) in the securities markets may face increased transaction costs from SCI entities,
to the extent that increased compliance costs are passed on to market participants.
Many, but not all, of the quantifiable costs of Regulation SCI involve a collection of
information, and these costs and burdens are discussed in the Paperwork Reduction Act section
of this release. 1855 When the PRA burdens are monetized, the estimated paperwork related
compliance burdens for SCI entities as a result of Regulation SCI total approximately $117

1855

See supra Section V. The Commission provides below quantified estimates of other costs
imposed by Regulation SCI beyond the PRA burdens, to the extent the Commission can
quantify such costs.

590

million initially and approximately $100 million annually. 1856 The Commission notes that the
monetized PRA burdens have increased from those contained in the SCI Proposal. Although
many of the adopted rules are more targeted and impose fewer requirements on SCI entities than
the proposed rules, the monetized PRA burdens have changed in part due to modifications made
to the PRA estimates as a result of recommendations from commenters, revisions to the rule text,
and the revised estimate of the number of SCI events, which resulted from incorporating the
Commission’s review of the number of systems compliance-related issues and ARP incidents
reported to Commission staff in 2013.
In addition, the Commission has quantified non-paperwork related costs for SCI entities
that total between approximately $14 million 1857 and $106 million1858 in initial costs and between
$9 million1859 and $70 million 1860 in annual ongoing costs. In addition to the costs to SCI
entities, the Commission also estimates the total connectivity costs to members or participants of
SCI entities associated with the testing of business continuity and disaster recovery plans to be
$18 million annually. 1861 Thus, the Commission estimates total quantified costs for SCI entities

1856

The monetized PRA cost reflects the paperwork cost estimated for all of Regulation SCI,
as discussed in Section V.

1857

See infra note 1943 (estimating cost for complying with the policies and procedures
required by Rules 1001(a) and (b)).

1858

See infra note 1944 (estimating cost for complying with the policies and procedures
required by Rules 1001(a) and (b)).

1859

See infra note 1945 (estimating cost for complying with the policies and procedures
required by Rule 1001(a) and (b)).

1860

See infra note 1946 (estimating cost for complying with the policies and procedures
required by Rule 1001(a) and (b)).

1861

See infra note 2065.

591

and members or participants of SCI entities to be between approximately $149 million1862 and
$241 million1863 in initial costs and between $127 million 1864 and $188 million1865 in annual
ongoing costs.
Several commenters provided broad comments regarding the costs of proposed
Regulation SCI. 1866 According to one commenter, Regulation SCI as proposed is “too universal
in its application, too ambitious in its scope and too costly in its implementation to achieve the

1862

$149 million = $117 million (PRA cost) + $14 million (other costs for SCI entities) + $18
million (connectivity costs for members or participants of SCI entities).

1863

$241 million = $117 million (PRA cost) + $106 million (other costs for SCI entities) +
$18 million (connectivity costs for members or participants of SCI entities).

1864

$127 million = $100 million (PRA cost) + $9 million (other costs for SCI entities) + $18
million (connectivity costs for members or participants of SCI entities).

1865

$188 million = $100 million (PRA cost) + $70 million (other costs for SCI entities) + $18
million (connectivity costs for members or participants of SCI entities).

1866

One commenter provided “conservative and preliminary” estimates for the cost of
compliance with Regulation SCI. See FINRA Letter at 42-43. This commenter
estimated that its one-time cost to comply with Regulation SCI would be between
approximately $1.1 million and $1.3 million, and its ongoing annual costs would be
between approximately $4.5 million and $5.5 million, if Regulation SCI is adopted as
proposed (e.g., if SCI systems is defined to apply to non-market regulatory and
surveillance systems, and development and testing environments). See id. at 42. As
discussed above, the definition of SCI systems does not include non-market regulation
and non-market surveillance systems, or development and testing systems. Therefore, the
Commission believes these estimates are too high. This commenter estimated that, under
a narrower Regulation SCI (e.g., if non-market systems and development and testing
environments are excluded from the definition of SCI systems), its one-time compliance
costs would be between approximately $675,000 and $825,000 and its annual costs
would be between approximately $2.2 million and $2.6 million. See id. This commenter
also stated that, monetizing its hour estimates for annual SCI reviews, its compliance
costs would increase by between approximately $600,000 and $900,000, and higher if
more systems than currently in scope under ARP would be subject to annual SCI reviews.
See id. at 42. The Commission notes that, other than the costs for SCI reviews, these
estimates do not distinguish paperwork costs from non-paperwork costs. If the
commenter’s estimates are intended to include all costs for compliance with Regulation
SCI, these estimates are close to or within the Commission’s estimated total quantified
cost ranges for SCI entities. See supra notes 1862-1865 and accompanying text.

592

hoped for reduction in risk to the markets without simultaneously diminishing other important
SEC accomplishments, such as increased competition, improved innovation, increased consumer
choice, lower barriers to entry into the industry and reduced transaction costs to the
customer.” 1867 Another commenter noted that proposed Regulation SCI would impose an
unreasonably burdensome technology and controls standard on automated systems of SCI
entities, which could lead to allocative inefficiencies in the marketplace and therefore have a
stifling effect on innovation in the U.S. equity markets. 1868 Another commenter stated that the
ultimate result of proposed Regulation SCI will be to limit or suppress the execution choice of
buy-side investors, meaning investors will have less ability to effectively manage their trading
strategies and diminished opportunities to seek better execution, lower transaction costs, and
achieve price improvement and investment performance. 1869
As discussed throughout this release, the Commission believes that Regulation SCI will
change and strengthen the practices of SCI entities, and should result in a number of benefits.
Further, the Commission believes that these benefits should result without diminishing the
Commission’s accomplishments in other areas, stifling innovation, or suppressing the execution
choice of investors. In particular, although costs associated with Regulation SCI could adversely
impact competition and increase barriers to entry, the Commission believes that the adverse
effect on competition and heightened barriers for SCI entities that provide venues for trading,
including ATSs and exchanges, would be mitigated and therefore the Commission does not

1867

See BIDS Letter at 2-3.

1868

See ITG Letter at 2.

1869

See UBS Letter at 7-8.

593

expect that investor choice on trading venues would be significantly limited. 1870 The
Commission also believes that any such effects would be warranted in light of the expected
benefits of Regulation SCI. Additionally, as discussed below, the dissemination of information
regarding certain major SCI events to all members or participants of an SCI entity can promote
competitive incentives to prevent systems issues. The Commission also believes that the
reduction in systems issues resulting from Regulation SCI could result in fewer interruptions in
the price discovery process and liquidity flows and thus result in fewer periods with pricing
inefficiencies. Furthermore, Regulation SCI could improve system uptime for SCI entities, and
therefore reduce latency as market participants will not be forced to reroute orders or change
execution strategies associated with situations in which an SCI entity is not operational.
Moreover, the Commission notes that it has revised the proposed rules after considering
the comments received. The Commission believes that many of the revisions to the proposed
rules would reduce burdens on SCI entities and significantly address commenters’ concerns
regarding potential negative effects on allocative inefficiency and innovation. For example,
because the Commission is adopting a quarterly reporting requirement for material systems
changes instead of the proposed 30-day advance notification requirement, adopted Regulation
SCI would impose lower burdens on SCI entities compared to the proposal and allow SCI
entities more flexibility when they implement material systems changes. 1871
c.

Effects on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital Formation

1870

See infra Section VI.C.1.c (addressing potential effects on efficiency, competition, and
capital formation, including effects on other SCI entities).

1871

See supra Section IV.B.4.b.i.

594

Along with the effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation discussed below
with regard to specific provisions of Regulation SCI, the Commission believes that Regulation
SCI as a whole could affect efficiency, competition, and capital formation in several ways.
By increasing the robustness of SCI systems and indirect SCI systems of SCI entities,
Regulation SCI may improve efficiency—in particular, price efficiency—and the improvement
in pricing efficiency could promote capital formation. In particular, as discussed in VI.C.1,
disruptions to SCI systems and the resulting trading interruptions can degrade pricing efficiency,
price discovery, and liquidity. Regulation SCI may reduce the frequency, severity, and duration
of market disruptions (e.g., trading interruptions) that may otherwise prevent market participants
from impounding information into security prices through market activity (e.g., order
submission) and, thus, improve price efficiency in the markets. Such disruptions also impose
liquidity costs and harm the price discovery process. The quality of the price discovery process
has important implications for efficiency and capital formation, as prices that accurately convey
information about fundamental value improve the efficiency with which capital is allocated
across projects and firms.
The Commission also believes that Regulation SCI could affect competition in several
ways. The Commission believes that the existing competition among the markets has not
sufficiently mitigated the occurrence of SCI events. 1872 Regulation SCI requires SCI entities to
disseminate information regarding certain SCI events to affected members or participants or to
all members or participants of an SCI entity. As discussed more thoroughly in Section
VI.C.2.b.iv below, the Commission believes that requiring the dissemination of information
regarding certain SCI events could further incentivize SCI entities to maintain more robust SCI
1872

See supra Section VI.B.4.

595

systems and indirect SCI systems and would enhance competition among SCI entities with
respect to the maintenance of robust SCI systems and indirect SCI systems.
Additionally, the Commission believes that Regulation SCI may have an impact on
competition among SCI entities, in part because the compliance costs of Regulation SCI will be
different among SCI entities. Specifically, some SCI entities already satisfy some of the
requirements of Regulation SCI because those provisions codify certain aspects of the ARP
Policy Statements. The Commission believes that these current ARP participants will incur
direct compliance costs that are incremental relative to the current cost of participating in the
ARP Inspection Program and current practices outside of the scope of ARP. But Regulation SCI
also applies to some entities that currently do not participate in the ARP Inspection Program such
as the MSRB and most SCI ATSs. These SCI entities may incur higher initial compliance costs,
compared to current ARP participants, in modifying their current practices to comply with
Regulation SCI. 1873 To the extent that SCI entities with different initial compliance costs
compete, Regulation SCI could alter the competitive relationship and give SCI entities that are
currently in compliance with certain provisions of Regulation SCI a competitive advantage. 1874
In addition to competition among SCI entities, the compliance costs imposed by
Regulation SCI could have an effect on competition between SCI entities and non-SCI entities in
the markets for trading services. Specifically, in part because non-SCI entities do not have to
incur the compliance costs associated with Regulation SCI, these entities may have a competitive

1873

The Commission notes that the SCI entities incurring the lower initial compliance costs
previously incurred such costs to participate in the ARP Inspection Program.

1874

However, given the voluntary nature of the current ARP Inspection Program, the extent
of current compliance with the requirements of adopted Regulation SCI by entities
subject to the ARP Inspection Program varies.

596

advantage in the markets for trading services over SCI entities that they compete with. The
adverse competitive effects, however, are likely to be minor when considering only ATSs
because an SCI ATS is likely to be larger and have more of an established customer base than
other ATSs. The Commission recognizes that broker-dealers also compete with SCI entities in
the market for trading services and that some broker-dealers are larger than some ATSs and
exchanges. However, broker-dealers cannot offer the same services as ATSs or exchanges
without becoming ATSs or exchanges.
The costs imposed by Regulation SCI could also affect barriers to entry for new ATSs
and exchanges and, thus, could adversely affect competition. 1875 Specifically, the Commission
acknowledges that Regulation SCI will increase the costs for those that meet the definition of
SCI entity. This will increase the expected costs of market entrants who expect to eventually be
SCI entities. If an increase in these costs reduces the number of potential new entrants, the
potential competition from new entrants will be lower.
As noted above, however, the Commission believes that the heightened barriers to entry
for ATSs would be mitigated to some degree because the compliance period would provide a
new ATS entrant the opportunity to initiate and develop its business before the ATS would need
to comply with Regulation SCI. 1876 In particular, the Commission believes that few new ATSs
would likely initially meet the threshold to be covered under Regulation SCI and a new ATS
could trade for at least three months (i.e., less than four of the preceding six months) and conduct
1875

While Regulation SCI could also increase start-up costs for SIPs and registered clearing
agencies, SIPs provide exclusive services and registered clearing agencies are currently
characterized by specialization and limited competition. Clearing and settlement services
exhibit high barriers to entry and economies of scale. See Clearing Agency Standards
Release, supra note 76, at 66263 and 66265.

1876

See supra note 152.

597

such trading at any level without being subject to Regulation SCI. The Commission also notes
that ATSs meeting the volume thresholds in the definition of “SCI ATS” for the first time will
also be provided six months from the time that the ATS first meets the applicable thresholds to
comply with the requirements of Regulation SCI. 1877 This compliance period should also
provide such ATSs with time to plan on how they would meet the requirements of Regulation
SCI, and could also potentially allow SCI ATSs to become more equipped to bear the cost of
Regulation SCI once compliance is required, and thus not significantly discourage new ATSs
from entering the market and growing. For newly registered exchanges, the Commission
believes the costs associated with Regulation SCI would not represent a significant increased
barrier to entry, as the costs would represent a small portion of total costs associated with
creating and registering an exchange.
The compliance costs associated with participating in business continuity and disaster
recovery plan testing may affect competition among members or participants of SCI entities and
also could raise barriers to entry for new members or participants. In particular, Regulation SCI
imposes compliance costs on certain members or participants of SCI entities that are designated
to participate in business continuity and disaster recovery plans testing. Because some members
or participants may incur compliance costs associated with Rule 1004 and others may not, it
could negatively impact the ability for some to compete and could raise barriers to entry. As
discussed more thoroughly in Section VI.C.2.b.vii below, the Commission expects the
compliance costs associated with the business continuity and disaster recovery plans testing
requirements in Rule 1004 to be limited for larger members or participants who already maintain
1877

See supra Section IV.F (discussing effective date and compliance dates for Regulation
SCI).

598

connections to backup facilities, including for testing purposes, than for smaller members or
participants. Furthermore, the Commission believes that new members or participants are less
likely to be designated immediately to participate in business continuity and disaster recovery
plan testing than existing significant members or participants because new members may not
initially satisfy the SCI entity’s designation standards as they establish their businesses. Thus,
the Commission believes the adverse effect on competition may be mitigated to some extent as
the most likely members or participants to be designated for testing are those comprising the
largest market share as ranked by volume by the SCI entity, and that these firms will have more
limited compliance costs. 1878
2.

Analysis of Final Rules
a.

Definitions – Rule 1000

In general, the definitions in Rule 1000 either clarify a provision or circumscribe the
scope of a provision in Regulation SCI. Therefore, many of the costs and benefits associated
with the impacts of the definitions are incorporated in the discussion of the substantive
requirements of Regulation SCI. This section contains a discussion of the economic effects of
the scope of Regulation SCI resulting from the definitions adopted by the Commission.
i.

SCI Entities

The Commission estimates that the definition of SCI entity in Rule 1000 currently covers
44 entities. This includes 30 current participants in the ARP Inspection Program (i.e., 18
registered national securities exchanges, seven registered clearing agencies, FINRA, two plan
1878

The Commission also notes that SCI entities have an incentive to limit the imposition of
the cost and burden associated with testing to the minimum necessary to comply with
Rule 1004, and that, given the option, most SCI entities would, in the exercise of
reasonable discretion, prefer to designate fewer members or participants to participate in
testing, than to designate more. See supra Section IV.B.6.b.

599

processors, one ATS trading NMS stocks, and one exempt clearing agency). The definition of
SCI entity also includes one ATS that currently exceeds the relevant threshold in Rule
301(b)(6)(i) of Regulation ATS and is subject to the systems safeguard requirements of
Regulation ATS. In addition to these entities, the definition of SCI entity includes the MSRB
and an estimated 12 additional SCI ATSs.
Generally, by including certain entities that do not currently participate in the ARP
Inspection Program or meet the current threshold for the systems safeguard requirements of
Regulation ATS in the definition of SCI entity, the Commission believes that Regulation SCI
will not only enhance systems resiliency at such entities, but also reduce the potential for
incidents at these entities to have broader, disruptive effects across the securities markets more
generally on other SCI entities, and attendant costs to investors. Although the Commission
believes that the requirements of Regulation SCI will reduce the impact of SCI events, the
Commission is unable to quantify the economic effects of the reduction because the degree to
which adherence to the requirements of Regulation SCI will reduce the impact of SCI events is
unknown.
As discussed throughout the economic analysis, the Commission also expects that SCI
entities will incur costs for complying with the requirements of Regulation SCI and that these
costs could affect the competitiveness of entities incurring such costs. For example, the section
summarizing the effects of Regulation SCI on efficiency, competition, and capital formation,
Section VI.C.1.c, discusses several ways that Regulation SCI might affect the competitiveness of
SCI entities, including the competitiveness of SCI entities versus non-SCI entities, the relative
initial competitiveness of SCI entities needing to make more changes to comply with Regulation
SCI, and barriers to entry for SCI entities.

600

As discussed in detail in Section IV.A.1, many commenters addressed the scope of the
definition of SCI entity. Many of these comments related to the inclusion of certain ATSs in the
definition. 1879 Commenters presented mixed views on the inclusion of ATSs, with some
commenters believing that all ATSs should be covered by Regulation SCI, 1880 and other
commenters arguing that no ATSs should be covered by Regulation SCI. 1881 The commenters
who supported including all ATSs in the scope of the definition of SCI entity argued that any
ATS can impact the market and one of these commenters also stated that any participant on any
ATS can have disproportionate impact on the market. 1882 One of the main points of commenters
that suggested no ATSs should be covered was that ATSs are redundant of exchanges and other
ATSs and that, in case an ATS fails, other ATSs or exchanges can service investors and absorb
trading volume. 1883 Additionally, some commenters suggested applying higher thresholds in the
definition of SCI ATS such that fewer ATSs would be covered under Regulation SCI. 1884 Many
of these commenters who advocated for applying higher thresholds in the definition of SCI ATS
stated that the inclusion of smaller ATSs in the definition of SCI ATS does not justify what they
believed to be the significant compliance costs imposed by Regulation SCI. 1885
The Commission believes that certain ATSs should be required to comply with rules
regarding systems capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, security, and compliance. ATSs

1879

See supra Section IV.A.1.b.

1880

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 8-10; and Lauer Letter at 4.

1881

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 3; ITG Letter at 2-4; and OTC Markets Letter at 9.

1882

See, e.g., NYSE Letter at 8-10; and Lauer Letter at 4.

1883

See, e.g., BIDS Letter at 7-8; and ITG Letter at 3.

1884

See, e.g., Direct Edge Letter at 2; ITG Letter at 10.

1885

See, e.g., ITG Letter at 9-10.

601

now collectively represent a significant source of liquidity for NMS stocks. 1886 Given this level
of activity on ATSs, coupled with the increasingly inter-connected and complex nature of the
markets and heavy reliance on automated systems, the Commission recognizes that a systems
issue even at one ATS could result in a market-wide impact. Further, some ATSs execute a
larger portion of consolidated volume than smaller exchanges. In this respect, an outage at one
or more of these ATSs, which serve as markets to bring buyers and sellers together in the
national market system, could disrupt the entire market and could pose even greater risks to the
market as a whole than certain smaller exchanges. Accordingly, the Commission believes that
the exclusion of all ATSs from the definition of SCI entity would significantly reduce the
benefits of Regulation SCI discussed in Section VI.C.1. On the other hand, the Commission
believes that including all ATSs in the definition of SCI entity would heighten barriers to entry
and restrict competition in the markets for trading services and, thus, could stifle innovations. As
discussed in Section IV.A.1.b, the Commission believes that the adopted thresholds for SCI
ATSs result in the inclusion of ATSs that can play a significant role in the securities markets and,
given their heavy reliance on automated systems, have the potential to impact investors, the
overall market, and the trading of individual securities should an SCI event occur. With respect
to comments calling for higher or lower volume thresholds, the Commission believes that higher
thresholds would increase the risk of significant market disruptions due to SCI events relative to
the adopted thresholds and lower thresholds would serve to increase barriers to entry. In setting
the levels in the thresholds for SCI ATS, the Commission has considered the trade-offs between
barriers to entry and the risk of significant market disruptions.

1886

See supra note 148 and accompanying text. See also text accompanying supra note 1832.

602

In adopting the thresholds in the definition of SCI ATS, the Commission also considered
alternative thresholds, including the threshold used in Regulation ATS. The adopted thresholds
in the definition of SCI ATS differ from the thresholds that subject an ATS to the systems
safeguard requirements under Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS in several ways. 1887 First, for
ATSs that trade NMS stocks or non-NMS stocks, the adopted thresholds are based on dollar
trading volume instead of share trading volume. The Commission believes that the application
of dollar trading volume thresholds better reflects the potential economic impact of a systems
issue at a significant ATS as it more accurately measures the value of trading activity compared
to a threshold based on share trading volume. 1888 Second, the adopted volume thresholds for
NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks are lower than the volume thresholds in Rule 301(b)(6) of
Regulation ATS. As discussed in IV.A.1.b, securities trading has evolved significantly since the
adoption of Regulation ATS; today, trading activity in stocks is more dispersed among a larger
number of trading venues. Because trading activity in stocks is now dispersed among a larger
number of trading venues and markets today are so inter-connected and complex, the
Commission believes that the application of lower volume thresholds would more effectively
capture multiple sources of potential systems issues that could significantly disrupt the market
for a single security or for the market as a whole. Third, with respect to ATSs that trade NMS
stocks, the Commission is adopting the two-fold dollar volume thresholds in the first prong—a
single NMS stock threshold and an all NMS stocks threshold. The Commission believes that

1887

See also supra Section IV.A.1.b.

1888

See text accompanying supra note 161; see also Proposing Release, supra note 13, at
18094 (stating that the use of dollar thresholds may better reflect the economic impact of
trading activity).

603

such thresholds would appropriately account for the significance of an ATS in both overall
trading of NMS stocks and for a single NMS stock.
With regard to commenters that stated no ATSs should be covered because ATSs are
redundant of exchanges and other ATS, the Commission acknowledges that, to some extent,
certain services provided by any trading venue, including exchanges and ATSs, are redundant in
the sense that these facilities execute and process trades. However, the Commission notes that
each ATS provides different services in terms of, among other things, order types, matching
rules, and the speed of execution to meet investors’ specific needs. If an ATS outage interferes
with the supply of certain services that investors demand, it would impose costs on investors.
For example, market participants may program their routing algorithms assuming that all market
centers are operational. If one of those venues is not available, rerouting order flow may increase
costs to the market participant seeking execution as time required for executing orders may
increase, order fill rates may decrease, and slippage 1889 may also increase, which would further
increase transaction costs. 1890
The Commission also received comments regarding the inclusion of fixed-income ATSs.
One commenter suggested the use of par value traded rather than volume. 1891 Further, in noting
that fixed-income ATSs should not be subject to Regulation SCI, this commenter noted that
retail fixed-income ATSs operate on a vastly different scale than institutional equity markets. 1892

1889

Slippage refers to the difference between the expected price of a trade and the actual
trade price due to the passage of time.

1890

See supra Section VI.B.4 for a discussion of why market incentives do not seem to
reduce these costs.

1891

See TMC Letter at 1-3.

1892

See id. at 2.

604

According to this commenter, the costs of compliance for a retail fixed-income ATS would be
several orders of magnitude higher than for an exchange in the equity market, and would
overwhelm revenues for retail fixed-income ATSs. 1893
The Commission, after considering the views of commenters, has determined to exclude
ATSs that trade only municipal securities or corporate debt securities from the definition of SCI
ATS at this time. 1894 Accordingly, such fixed-income ATSs will not be subject to the
requirements of Regulation SCI. Rather, fixed-income ATSs will continue to be subject to the
existing requirements in Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS regarding systems capacity, integrity
and security if they meet the twenty percent threshold for municipal securities or corporate debt
securities provided by that rule. 1895 Because no such ATS is subject to Regulation SCI at this
time, it is possible that the municipal security and corporate debt markets may be affected by SCI
events that otherwise may have been prevented with more robust systems that would result from
Regulation SCI. However, the Commission believes that this loss in potential benefit relative to
the proposed approach would be minimal as fixed-income securities trading is generally
significantly less automated than trading in equities. 1896 Further, as commenters pointed out, the
cost of the requirements of Regulation SCI could be significant for fixed-income ATSs relative
to their size, scope of operations, and more limited potential for systems risk. Therefore,
1893

See id.

1894

See supra Section IV.A.1.b.

1895

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6).

1896

The Commission notes that the corporate debt and municipal securities markets are
primarily voice markets with little automation. See also supra note 185 (discussing the
view of commenters that the inclusion of fixed-income ATSs and/or the adoption of the
proposed thresholds would impose unduly high costs on these entities given their size,
scope of operations, lack of automation, low speed, and resulting low potential to pose
risk to systems).

605

lowering the current threshold applicable to fixed-income ATSs in Regulation ATS and
subjecting such ATSs to the requirements of Regulation SCI could have potentially discouraged
the growth of automation that could benefit investors in these markets. However, as the
Commission monitors the evolution of automation in this market, the Commission may
reconsider the benefits and costs of extending the requirements of Regulation SCI to fixedincome ATSs in the future.
The adopted definition of SCI SRO includes all national securities exchanges regardless
of their volume share. The Commission received one comment letter stating that the rule should
also include volume thresholds for exchanges. 1897 The Commission is not persuaded that
applying a volume threshold is appropriate for SCI SROs that are exchanges, but instead believes
that Regulation SCI should cover all exchanges. In particular, the Commission recognizes that
all exchanges play an important role in the securities markets. As discussed above in Section
IV.A.1.a, all stock exchanges are subject to a variety of specific public obligations under the
Exchange Act, including the requirements of Regulation NMS which, among other things,
designates the best bid or offer of such exchanges to be protected quotations. Accordingly, every
exchange may have a protected quotation that can obligate market participants to send orders to
that exchange if such exchange is displaying the best bid or offer. Among other reasons, given
that market participants may be required to send orders to any one of the exchanges at any given
time if such exchange is displaying the best bid or offer, the Commission believes that it is
important that the safeguards of Regulation SCI apply equally to all exchanges irrespective of
trading volume. As market participants may be required to send orders to the exchange
displaying the best prices, systems issues at such exchange could force market participants to re1897

See supra note 81 and accompanying text.

606

route their orders and, thus, could increase execution time and slippage, imposing additional
transaction costs to investors.
With respect to options exchanges, the Commission additionally believes that it would be
inappropriate to exclude them from the definition of SCI SRO because technology risks are
equally applicable to such exchanges, as evidenced by recent technology incidents affecting the
options markets. 1898 While there are many options that trade on multiple venues, systems issues
resulting in trading disruptions at an options exchange could lower the quality of pricing
efficiency and disrupt the price discovery process for singly-listed options (e.g., certain index
options only trade on one options exchange). As such, systems issues at options exchanges can
pose significant risks to the markets, and the Commission believes that the inclusion of options
exchanges within the scope of Regulation SCI is necessary to achieve the goals of Regulation
SCI.
The definition of SCI entity also includes the MSRB. The Commission believes that the
inclusion of the MSRB as an SCI entity will provide several significant benefits. In particular,
the MSRB collects and consolidates municipal securities data and makes it available to market
participants. The Commission believes that any event that could affect the market data collected
and consolidated by the MSRB could significantly disrupt the municipal bond market. Also, the
municipal securities data collected by the MSRB is provided to FINRA and made available to
the Commission and the bank regulators, and serves as a key resource for monitoring the
municipal bond market. Therefore, the inclusion of the MSRB will help ensure the robustness of
the MSRB’s systems and reduce the likelihood of systems issues that could harm investors in the
municipal bond market.
1898

See supra note 84.

607

As discussed above in Section IV.A.1, several commenters advocated the adoption of a
“risk-based” approach in the definition of SCI entity based on the criticality of the functions
performed. 1899 In effect, these commenters suggested that the Commission apply provisions of
Regulation SCI based on the entity’s risk to the operations of the U.S. securities markets based
on the entity’s functional role in the market (e.g., a primary listing market, the sole venue of the
security, a monopoly or utility type role with no redundancy). The Commission has considered
these factors in developing the definition of SCI entity and believes that the adopted definition,
in part, captures the intent of the commenters’ suggestions in that it includes entities in the
definition that play a significant role in the securities markets. In particular, as discussed in
Section IV.A.1.a in detail, the Commission included all exchanges in the definition of SCI SRO
because exchanges play a significant role in the functioning of securities markets. With respect
to the comments that suggested including only those entities that are essential to continuous
market-wide operation, the Commission believes that the specific criteria suggested by
commenters, in effect, could lead to the exclusion of significant ATSs. As discussed above, the
Commission continues to believe that significant ATSs that trade NMS and non-NMS stocks
should be included in Regulation SCI. ATSs collectively represent a significant source of
liquidity for stocks. Furthermore, as today’s markets are increasingly inter-connected and
complex with heavy reliance on automated systems, the Commission recognizes that a systems
issue at an ATS could result in a market-wide impact. Consequently, the Commission believes
that re-defining SCI entities according to commenters’ “risk-based” approach could exclude
certain entities that the Commission believes have the potential to pose significant risks to the

1899

See supra notes 53-57 and accompanying text.

608

securities markets should an SCI event occur, and thus limit the potential benefits from
Regulation SCI, which are discussed throughout this economic analysis.
ii.

SCI Systems

Regulation SCI expands on current practice, and applies to a broader range of systems
than the current ARP Inspection Program. In particular, the ARP Policy Statements are focused
on specific types of automated systems. 1900 The ARP Policy Statements and the ARP Inspection
Program address systems that directly support trading, clearance and settlement, order routing,
and market data. The definition of “SCI systems” would include these systems, as well as those
that directly support market regulation and market surveillance, systems that serve an essential
function for investor protection and market integrity.
The inclusion of market regulation and market surveillance systems under Regulation
SCI could reduce systems compliance issues that result from disruptions in systems that support
market regulation and market surveillance. The Commission believes that including market
regulation and market surveillance systems under the definition of SCI systems should help
ensure the robustness of the systems used by SCI entities to monitor compliance with relevant
laws, rules, and their own rules, and detect any violations of such laws or rules by members or
participants. The reduction in market regulation and market surveillance systems issues could
help ensure investor protection and preserve market integrity.
1900

See supra Section II.A and Proposing Release, supra note 13, at Section I.A (discussing
in more detail the ARP Policy Statements and the ARP Inspection Program). According
to the ARP I Release, the term “automated systems” or “automated trading systems”
means computer systems for listed and OTC equities, as well as options, that
electronically route orders to applicable market makers and systems that electronically
route and execute orders, including the data networks that feed the systems. These terms
also encompass systems that disseminate transaction and quotation information and
conduct trade comparisons prior to settlement, including the associated communication
networks. See ARP I Release, supra note 1, at 48706, n. 21.

609

The Commission also believes that the inclusion of market data systems in the definition
of SCI systems will benefit the market. Currently, SIAC, Nasdaq, and the MSRB 1901 process,
collect, and disseminate market data on equities, options, and municipal securities to investors.
While SIAC and Nasdaq are part of the ARP Inspection Program, the MSRB is not. The
Commission believes that consolidated market data is an important part of the investing and
trading process as it helps market participants to make well-informed investment and trading
decisions, and also helps investors to monitor the quality of execution of orders by their brokers.
Thus, any SCI events that affect market data processed, collected, and disseminated by the
MSRB could reduce pricing efficiency and, consequently, could significantly disrupt the
municipal bond market. Further, with respect to NMS securities, the Commission understands
that many trading algorithms make trading decisions based primarily on market data and rely on
that data being current and accurate.
In addition, as noted in Section IV.A.2.b, market data as used in the definition of “SCI
systems” does not refer exclusively to consolidated market data, but also includes proprietary
market data generated by SCI entities as well. The Commission notes that proprietary market
data is widely used and relied upon by a broad array of market participants, including
institutional investors, to make trading decisions. Therefore, if a proprietary market data feed
1901

As discussed above, in 2008, the Commission amended Rule 15c2-12 to designate the
MSRB as the single centralized disclosure repository for continuing municipal securities
disclosure. In 2009, the MSRB established EMMA, which serves as the official
repository of municipal securities disclosure and provides the public with free access to
relevant municipal securities data, and is the central database for information about
municipal securities offerings, issuers, and obligors. Additionally, the MSRB’s RTRS,
with limited exceptions, requires municipal bond dealers to submit transaction data to the
MSRB within 15 minutes of trade execution, and such near real-time post-trade
transaction data can be accessed through the MSRB’s EMMA website. See supra note
77. The MSRB is an SCI entity by virtue of being an SRO, rather than a plan processor.

610

became unavailable or otherwise unreliable, it could interfere with market participants making
trading decisions and impose additional transaction costs on market participants.
The Commission has limited information on the extent to which the ARP Policy
Statements guide ARP participants’ practices with respect to their proprietary market data
systems because this information is not reported to the Commission. To the extent that the ARP
Policy Statements guide ARP participants with respect to certain of their proprietary market data
systems, the potential benefits from including proprietary market data systems in Regulation SCI
could be incremental given current practice. The Commission also notes that entities have
competitive incentives to limit the number of systems issues with their proprietary market data
systems, as those SCI entities with minimum latency and the most robust proprietary market data
systems may attract more trading volume. While proprietary market data systems have
experienced systems issues, because these issues are not reported to the Commission, the
Commission has limited information on the frequency and severity of such systems issues and, in
addition, does not have information about how proprietary market data systems issues affect the
demand to subscribe to a particular proprietary market data feed. Although the Commission is
unable to estimate the benefits and costs of subjecting proprietary market data systems to
Regulation SCI, the Commission believes that if a proprietary market data feed became
unavailable or otherwise unreliable, it could have a significant impact on the trading of the
securities to which it pertains, and could interfere with the maintenance of fair and orderly
markets. 1902
To the extent that proprietary market data systems and consolidated market data systems
share common infrastructure, the compliance costs associated with proprietary market data
1902

See supra Section IV.A.2.b.

611

systems could be incremental to those costs associated with consolidated market data systems.
In addition, to the extent the ARP Policy Statements guide ARP participants with respect to their
proprietary market data systems, the initial compliance costs associated with proprietary market
data systems will be lower for these participants with respect to the relevant proprietary market
data systems.
As adopted, a subset of SCI systems are defined as critical SCI systems. Critical SCI
systems are defined as SCI systems of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI entity that directly
support functionality relating to clearance and settlement systems of clearing agencies; openings,
reopenings, and closings on the primary listing exchange; trading halts; initial public offerings;
the provision of consolidated market data; and exclusively listed securities. 1903 In addition,
critical SCI systems include systems that provide functionality to the securities markets for
which the availability of alternatives is significantly limited or nonexistent, and without which
there would be a material impact on fair and orderly markets. 1904 Critical SCI systems include
systems that represent potential “single points of failure” in the securities markets—if they were
to experience systems issues, the Commission believes they would be the most likely to have a
widespread and significant impact on the U.S. securities markets. Critical SCI systems are
subject to certain heightened resilience and information dissemination requirements under
Regulation SCI. In addition, because an SCI entity may tailor its policies and procedures based
on the relative criticality of a given system to the SCI entity and to the securities markets
generally, an SCI entity may subject its critical SCI systems to higher standards than other SCI
systems.
1903

See Rule 1000.

1904

See id.
612

By adopting a defined term “critical SCI systems” (which is not defined for purposes of
the ARP Inspection Program or Regulation ATS), along with the heightened requirements
associated with critical SCI systems, the Commission expects fewer disruptions in critical SCI
systems, and therefore fewer SCI events involving potential “single points of failure” that could
cause wide-scale disruptions across the securities markets. As explained in Section VI.C.1, this
could reduce the likelihood and duration of systems issues, thereby helping to avoid pricing
inefficiencies and reduce interruptions in liquidity flow, which may occur during times when
systems disruptions can make systems unavailable or unreliable.
The Commission also notes that, by distinguishing critical SCI systems from other SCI
systems, and because an SCI entity may tailor its policies and procedures based on the relative
criticality of a given system to the SCI entity and to the securities markets generally, an SCI
entity may subject its critical SCI systems to higher standards than other SCI systems. In
addition, critical SCI systems are subject to a goal of two-hour recovery following a wide-scale
disruption, and a requirement for information dissemination to all members or participants of an
SCI entity in the case of an SCI event impacting critical SCI systems (unless the SCI event
qualifies as a de minimis SCI event). As result, the designation of critical SCI systems may
result in additional costs as compared to the proposal. However, by distinguishing critical
systems, Regulation SCI is consistent with a risk-based approach that targets areas that would
generate the most benefits.
Regulation SCI defines “indirect SCI systems” 1905 to mean any systems of, or operated
by or on behalf of, an SCI entity that, if breached, would be reasonably likely to pose a security

1905

As discussed in Section IV.A.2.d, “SCI security systems” have been renamed “indirect
SCI systems” and its definition has been revised in response to commenters who
613

threat to SCI systems. 1906 As discussed above in Section IV.A.2.d, the adopted definition
excludes systems that are effectively physically or logically separated from SCI systems because
the Commission believes that the benefit of including systems that can effectively be “walled
off” may be limited, as “walled off” systems are less likely to serve as potential vulnerable entry
points to SCI systems in the event of a security breach. 1907 Regulation SCI will expressly
impose new requirements on systems that fall within the definition of “indirect SCI systems”
(which is not defined for purposes of the ARP Inspection Program or Regulation ATS). These
new requirements for indirect SCI systems should help ensure the robustness and resiliency of
SCI systems by reducing the occurrence of security-related issues at SCI systems. Moreover, the
application of Regulation SCI to indirect SCI systems could encourage SCI entities to isolate
certain non-SCI systems from SCI systems (thereby removing these non-SCI systems from the
scope of indirect SCI systems), which would decrease the risk that non-SCI systems provide
vulnerable points of entry into SCI systems and cause security-related issues at SCI systems.
The reduction in security-related SCI systems issues could lead to fewer interruptions in the price
discovery process and liquidity flows and thus result in fewer periods with pricing inefficiencies
as discussed in Section VI.C.1.

expressed concern about the breadth of the proposed definition. Because the definition of
indirect SCI systems has been refined from the proposal, the compliance costs associated
with indirect SCI systems (discussed below) would be lower relative to the compliance
costs associated with the proposed rules.
1906

As proposed, “SCI security systems” means any systems that share network resources
with SCI systems that, if breached, would be reasonably likely to pose a security threat to
SCI systems.

1907

Some SCI entities currently employ a wide variety of means to separate their systems,
including logical and physical separation.

614

Regulation SCI specifies the obligations SCI entities would have with respect to SCI
systems and indirect SCI systems. As mentioned above, the definition of SCI systems includes
more systems than the ARP Inspection Program traditionally covered, and “indirect SCI
systems” is not defined for purposes of the ARP Inspection Program or Regulation ATS.
Because Regulation SCI applies to SCI systems and indirect SCI systems, SCI entities will incur
compliance costs, discussed in detail further below in Section VI.C.2, which include, among
other things, costs associated with policies and procedures related to such systems. Furthermore,
as mentioned above, the definition of SCI systems includes systems that directly support trading,
clearance and settlement, order routing, and market data, which are covered by the ARP
Inspection Program. Accordingly, the Commission believes that initial compliance costs
associated with SCI systems will be higher for SCI entities that are not currently participating in
the ARP Inspection Program (e.g., some SCI ATSs) as compared to ARP Inspection Program
participants that have established practices consistent with the ARP Policy Statements. Although
the Commission believes that some SCI ATSs will generally incur higher initial compliance
costs associated with the requirements of Rule 1001 compared to other SCI entities that are
current participants in the ARP Inspection Program, the difference in initial compliance costs
could be limited because, as currently constituted, relative to the systems of SCI SROs, the
systems of SCI ATSs generally would not fall within the category of critical SCI systems, and
thus such SCI ATSs would not be subject to the more stringent requirements that would be
applicable to the critical SCI systems of other SCI entities. Further, as discussed in Section
VI.C.1, the Commission believes that Regulation SCI could have an impact on competition
among SCI entities in part because the initial compliance costs associated with SCI systems and
indirect SCI systems will vary across SCI entities.

615

In the SCI Proposal, the Commission defined SCI systems more broadly than it has in the
adopted rule. Specifically, the proposed definition of SCI systems would have included all
regulation and surveillance systems, as well as development and testing systems. As discussed
above in Section IV.A.2.b, after considering, among other things, the views of commenters that
the definition of SCI systems was overbroad and, thus, could cover nearly all systems of an SCI
entity, the Commission refined the definition of SCI systems. 1908 Specifically, the scope of
adopted Regulation SCI does not cover member regulation or member surveillance systems such
as those, for example, relating to member registration, capital requirements, or dispute
resolution, because issues relating to such systems are unlikely to have the same level of impact
on the maintenance of fair and orderly markets or an SCI entity’s operational capability as those
systems identified in the definition of SCI systems. Consequently, the Commission does not
believe that the exclusion of member regulation and member surveillance systems will
significantly reduce the benefits of Regulations SCI discussed in Section VI.C.1. Furthermore,
the Commission believes that the exclusion of member regulation and member surveillance
systems from the adopted definition of SCI systems will substantially reduce the costs of
compliance with Regulation SCI relative to the proposal because it reduces the potential number
of SCI events that would be subject to the Commission notification requirements compared to
the proposal.
As discussed above in Section IV.A.2.b, many commenters also opposed the inclusion of
development and testing systems in the definition of SCI system, stating that issues in
development and testing systems would have little or no impact on the operations of SCI

1908

See supra Section IV.A.2.b (discussing the definition of SCI systems).

616

entities. 1909 The Commission agrees that issues with development and testing systems generally
have less of an impact on the SCI entity’s operations than production systems that directly
support trading, clearance and settlements, order routing, market data, market regulation, and
market surveillance. In response to comment letters, the adopted definition of SCI systems is
limited to systems that directly support trading, clearance and settlement, order routing, market
data, market regulation, and market surveillance, and does not include development and testing
systems. Consequently, the requirements of Regulation SCI that are triggered by the definition
of SCI systems do not apply to development and testing systems. However, the Commission
recognizes that there would be benefits from maintaining robust development and testing
systems because these systems are important in ensuring the reliability and resiliency of systems
of SCI entities. As discussed in Section IV.A.2.b, in order to have policies and procedures
reasonably designed to ensure capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security for SCI
systems (and indirect SCI systems, as applicable) in accordance with adopted Rule 1001(a), an
SCI entity will be required to have policies and procedures that include a program to review and
keep current systems development and testing methodology for such systems. 1910
A few commenters advocated that SCI entities should be permitted to conduct their own
risk-based assessment in determining the scope of SCI systems. 1911 As discussed in Section
IV.A.2.b, rather than limiting the definition of SCI systems to systems that pose a greater risk to
1909

See supra note 234 and accompanying text.

1910

Further, as discussed above, the definition of SCI review and the corresponding
requirement for an annual SCI review require an assessment of internal control design
and effectiveness, which includes development processes. In addition, if development
and testing systems are not appropriately walled off from production systems, such
systems could be captured under the definition of indirect SCI systems and be subject to
the requirements of Regulation SCI.

1911

See DTCC Letter at 3-5; Omgeo Letter at 5-6; and OCC Letter at 3-4.

617

the markets in the event of a systems issue or that are of paramount importance to the
functioning of the U.S. securities market, the Commission is subjecting those systems that meet
the definition of “critical SCI systems” to certain heightened requirements under Regulation SCI.
The Commission continues to believe that any systems issues involving systems that directly
support one of the six functions (trading, clearance and settlement, order routing, market data,
market regulation, or market surveillance) listed in the definition of SCI systems could also
cause significant market disruptions and, thus, including such systems and imposing heightened
requirements on a subset of such systems—critical SCI systems—should help realize the benefits
of Regulation SCI discussed in Section VI.C.1.a.
As discussed above in Section IV.A.2.b, the definition of SCI systems includes any
system that is operated by a third-party on behalf of an SCI entity and directly supports one of
the six key functions (trading, clearance and settlement, order routing, market data, market
regulation, or market surveillance) listed in the definition of SCI systems. The Commission
understands that many SCI entities and many SROs, in particular, rely heavily on outsourcing to
help test, operate, and run various systems in their daily operations and that they outsource
networks, data center operations, and many of the products and systems that support their trading
and/or clearing systems. The Commission also notes that its staff already discusses with ARP
entities their use of certain third-party systems as necessary under the ARP Inspection Program.
Because of this reliance on outsourcing to third party systems, the Commission believes that
including any system that directly supports one of the six functions listed in the definition of SCI
system, regardless of whether it is operated by the SCI entity directly or by a third party, is
important in reducing systems issues and, thus, promoting pricing efficiency and price discovery
process.

618

Several commenters stated that the definition of SCI systems should not include systems
operated on behalf of an SCI entity by a third-party. 1912 These commenters expressed concerns
about potential difficulties with meeting the requirements of Regulation SCI with regard to thirdparty systems. 1913 Another commenter questioned whether the Commission considered the costs
and benefits of including third-party systems within the definition. 1914 This commenter also
noted that the inclusion of third-party systems may force SCI entities to insource functions that
are more efficiently performed by vendors, and the cost of insourcing will be passed along to
members and market participants and may degrade competition. 1915
As discussed above, the Commission believes that, among other reasons, allowing
systems operated on behalf of an SCI entity by a third-party to be excluded from the
requirements of Regulation SCI would reduce the effectiveness of the regulation in promoting
the national market system by ensuring the capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and
security of those systems important to the functioning of the U.S. securities markets. 1916 The
Commission acknowledges that ensuring compliance of systems operated by a third-party with
Regulation SCI may be more costly than ensuring compliance of internal systems with
Regulation SCI because of search costs associated with employing adequate third-party systems
or services and the additional communication needed with the third-party service provider. The
Commission acknowledges that higher compliance costs associated with managing third-party
systems could be passed on to market participants.
1912

See, e.g., Omgeo Letter at 5-6; and BATS Letter at 4.

1913

See, e.g., Omgeo Letter at 5-6; and BATS Letter at 4.

1914

See BATS Letter at 4-5.

1915

See id. at 5.

1916

See supra Section IV.A.2.b (discussing the definition of “SCI systems”).

619

Moreover, the Commission recognizes that the inclusion of systems operated by a thirdparty on behalf of an SCI entity in the scope of SCI systems may in certain cases make it more
difficult for an SCI entity to utilize third parties because the SCI entity is required to ensure that
SCI systems and indirect SCI systems operated on its behalf by a third party are operated in
compliance with Regulation SCI. In particular, the SCI entity might not be able to ensure that
systems operated by certain third parties are in compliance with Regulation SCI and therefore
might not be able to utilize such third-party service providers. Limitations on the choice of thirdparty systems could lower the quality of employable third-party systems because the employable
third-party systems may not be best suited for the SCI entity or be the best available of its type.
At this time, however, it is difficult to estimate the extent to which inclusion of systems operated
by third parties on behalf of an SCI entity in the definition of SCI systems will alter outsourcing
arrangements in a manner that would result in reducing an SCI entity’s ability to maintain its
operational capability and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets. While the
Commission understands that SROs outsource some systems, the Commission lacks sufficient
information regarding the specific contractual relationships between SCI entities and third-party
service providers.
Furthermore, if—due to limited options on employable third-parties—an SCI entity
decides to insource systems that could be more cost-effectively provided by third parties with
relevant expertise, the quality of such systems may be adversely affected, while the cost to the
SCI entity may be increased. As such, Regulation SCI could impose higher costs on SCI entities
that are currently more dependent on third-party systems for their operations than SCI entities
that primarily employ their own systems and therefore could potentially have adverse effects on
competition among SCI entities. In addition, the requirements of Regulation SCI could force

620

some third-party vendors out of the market for SCI systems or indirect SCI systems. In this
respect, Regulation SCI could negatively impact such vendors and reduce the ability for some
third-party vendors to compete in the market for SCI systems and indirect SCI systems, with
attendant costs to SCI entities. However, Regulation SCI, over time, could result in quality
improvements for systems or services provided by such third-party vendors as vendors that
primarily provide services to SCI entities may compete in part on the quality of their systems in
light of the requirements of Regulation SCI.
iii.

SCI Events

Rule 1000 defines SCI events to include systems disruptions, systems compliance issues,
and systems intrusions. Further, for purposes of the information dissemination requirement
under Rule 1002(c), the Commission defines the new term, major SCI event, to mean an SCI
event that has had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have, any impact on a critical
SCI system, or a significant impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants. As
discussed further below, Regulation SCI requires SCI entities to take appropriate corrective
actions in response to SCI events (Rule 1002(a)), notify the Commission of SCI events (Rule
1002(b)), and disseminate information regarding certain major SCI events to all members or
participants of an SCI entity and certain other SCI events to affected members or participants
(Rule 1002(c)).
Prior to the adoption of Regulation SCI, “systems disruption” was not defined by
Commission rule. Rather, in the 2001 Staff ARP Interpretive Letter, Commission staff provided
guidance on examples of significant systems outages that should be reported to Commission

621

staff. 1917 The Commission understands that ARP participants currently exercise a level of
discretion in determining what systems issues constitute significant systems outages.
As adopted, “systems disruption” is defined to mean an event in an SCI entity’s SCI
systems that disrupts, or significantly degrades, the normal operation of an SCI system. The
Commission believes the revised definition sets forth a standard that SCI entities can apply in a
wide variety of circumstances to determine in their discretion whether a systems issue should be
appropriately categorized as a systems disruption. The adopted definition of systems disruption
potentially covers types of events that were not articulated as part of Commission staff guidance
regarding significant systems outages, and at the same time potentially excludes types of systems
events that were articulated as part of such guidance. The Commission, however, believes that
the adopted definition of systems disruptions would more appropriately capture material or
significant systems issues than the 2001 Staff ARP Interpretive Letter. Accordingly, the
inclusion of systems disruptions in the definition of SCI event, along with the requirements of
taking timely corrective actions, Commission notification, information dissemination, and
recordkeeping on these systems issues, should help effectively reduce the severity and duration
of events that harm pricing efficiency, price discovery, and liquidity and help Commission
oversight of the securities markets. The Commission also acknowledges that SCI entities will
incur some costs to determine whether a systems disruption has occurred. The Commission
notes that these costs should be lower compared to the proposed definition, in part, because the
adopted definition of systems disruption sets forth a standard that permits SCI entities to more
effectively identify such systems issues.

1917

See 2001 Staff ARP Interpretive Letter, supra note 21.

622

As discussed in Section IV.A.3.a, after considering the views of commenters that the
proposed definition of systems disruption was too prescriptive, insufficiently flexible, and should
be limited to material systems disruptions, the Commission has taken a different approach.
Instead of the proposed seven-prong prescriptive definition representing the effects caused by a
disruption of an SCI entity’s systems, the adopted definition focuses on whether a system is
halted or degraded in a manner that is outside of its normal operation. The proposed definition
had the potential to incorporate certain types of minor events that should more appropriately fall
outside the purview of the regulation. Similarly, the prescriptive approach of the proposed
definition also had the potential to exclude certain types of events that were significant enough to
warrant inclusion, but may otherwise have gone unreported because they were not one of the
seven enumerated types of systems malfunctions.
Currently, “systems intrusion” is not defined by Commission rule or Commission staff
guidance. The Commission believes that regulated entities exercise a level of discretion in
determining what systems intrusions to report to Commission staff. By adopting a definition of
systems intrusion, the Commission is specifying the criteria for SCI entities to use to identify
systems intrusions that would be subject to Regulation SCI. The definition of systems intrusion
covers successful unauthorized entry to SCI systems and indirect SCI systems. Unauthorized
access, destruction, and manipulation of SCI systems and indirect SCI systems could adversely
affect the markets and market participants because intruders could force systems to operate in
unintended ways that could create significant disruptions in securities markets. Therefore, the
inclusion of systems intrusions in the definition of SCI events can help reduce the risk of such
adverse effects. The Commission believes that the inclusion of systems intrusion in the
definition of SCI event should help ensure consistent compliance with the requirements of taking

623

timely corrective actions, Commission notification, information dissemination, and
recordkeeping and, thus, should help realize the benefits of those requirements discussed in
sections below. The Commission also acknowledges that SCI entities will incur some costs to
determine whether a systems intrusion has occurred.
Currently, “systems compliance issue” is also not defined by Commission rule or
Commission staff guidance and the Commission believes that regulated entities exercise a level
of discretion in determining what systems compliance-related issues to report to Commission
staff. While the ARP Policy Statements do not address systems compliance issues, some SCI
entities notify the Commission of certain systems compliance-related issues. 1918 As noted above,
however, the Commission does not receive comprehensive data regarding such issues. By
adopting a definition of systems compliance issue, the Commission is specifying the criteria for
SCI entities to use to identify systems compliance issues that would be subject to Regulation
SCI.
By defining SCI events to include systems compliance issues, the Commission believes
Regulation SCI should further assist the Commission in its oversight of SCI entities and in the
protection of investors. Specifically, the Commission believes that inclusion of systems
compliance issues in the definition of SCI event and the resulting applicability of the
Commission reporting, information dissemination, and recordkeeping requirements are important
to help ensure that SCI systems are operated by SCI entities in compliance with the Exchange
Act, rules thereunder, and their own rules and governing documents. 1919 In addition, the

1918

See supra note 1803 and accompanying text. As part of the Commission’s oversight of
SROs, OCIE reviews systems compliance issues reported to Commission staff.

1919

See supra Section IV.A.3.b.

624

Commission believes that, as part of its oversight of the securities markets, it should learn of a
non-de minimis systems compliance issue immediately upon an SCI entity having a reasonable
basis to conclude that such a systems compliance issue has occurred so that the Commission may
consider whether there has been any resulting harm to investors or market participants. The
Commission also acknowledges that SCI entities could incur some costs to determine whether a
systems compliance issue has occurred.
The Commission notes that it has refined the definition of systems compliance issue as
compared to the proposal by replacing the phrase “federal securities laws” with “the Act.” 1920
Accordingly, the number of systems compliance issues subject to Regulation SCI could be no
greater and possibly lower than if the Commission adopted the definition of systems compliance
issue as proposed and there could be a corresponding reduction in benefits, compared to the
proposal, as a result of adopting a targeted definition. 1921
Regulation SCI also defines “major SCI event.” The addition of the definition of major
SCI event allows the requirement for dissemination of information to all members or participants
of an SCI entity to be consistent with a tiered, risk-based approach. As discussed in Section
VI.C.2.b.iv below and in Section VI.C.1 above, dissemination of information regarding SCI
events to all members or participants of an SCI entity can result in benefits and affect
competitive incentives to prevent systems issues. The Commission acknowledges, however, that
the benefits of information dissemination to all members or participants of an SCI entity would
not be realized if SCI entities were required to disseminate too many events, creating confusion
1920

See id.

1921

For example, the adopted definition of systems compliance issue makes explicit that the
requirements of Regulation SCI do not apply to any obligations that an SCI entity has
under the Securities Act of 1933.

625

about which events are meaningful, or if SCI entities were required to disseminate too few
events. The definition of major SCI events provides a targeted approach to determining which
events are appropriately disseminated to all members or participants of an SCI entity. The
Commission also acknowledges that, as discussed in Section VI.C.2.b.iv below, SCI entities
would incur compliance costs associated with developing a process for determining major SCI
events and de minimis SCI events.
SCI entities will incur compliance costs with regard to the requirements of Regulation
SCI. As noted above, the definition of SCI event includes systems disruptions and systems
intrusions, terms that are not defined under the ARP Inspection Program, but which are
contemplated by the ARP Inspection Program’s attention to systems failures, disruptions, and
other systems problems, including systems vulnerability. 1922 To this extent, the initial
compliance costs associated with SCI events may be higher for SCI entities that are not currently
participating in the ARP Inspection Program than for those currently participating in the ARP
Inspection Program. Similarly, the initial compliance costs associated with SCI events will be
higher for SCI entities that do not currently self-report systems compliance-related issues to the
Commission than those that do. As discussed in Section VI.C.1, the Commission believes that
Regulation SCI will have an impact on competition among SCI entities because the initial
compliance costs stemming from the definition of SCI events will be different among SCI
entities. However, all SCI entities, regardless of current participation in the ARP Inspection
Program or self-reporting of systems compliance-related issues, could incur costs associated with
the inclusion of major SCI events as a definition.

1922

See supra Section II.A (discussing the ARP Inspection Program).

626

As an alternative to the adopted definitions of SCI event, several commenters suggested
that the definition of SCI event include a materiality threshold such that certain Regulation SCI
requirements would apply only to events that exceed the threshold, as determined by the SCI
entity. 1923 The Commission is not persuaded that incorporating a materiality threshold into the
definition of SCI event would appropriately capture SCI events. Some systems issues, which
may initially seem insignificant to an SCI entity, may later prove to be the source of significant
systems issues at the SCI entity. Furthermore, there could be incidences in which systems issues
cause minor disruptions for one particular SCI entity but result in significant disruptions for
another SCI entity or market participant. Under the use of the suggested materiality threshold,
such systems issues could be overlooked and timely corrective action may not be taken.
b.

Requirements for SCI Entities – Rules 1001-1004
i.

Policies and Procedures – Rules 1001(a), (b), and (c)

Rules 1001(a), (b), and (c) set forth requirements relating to the written policies and
procedures that SCI entities are required to establish, maintain, and enforce. Rule 1001(a)
requires an SCI entity to establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems and, for purposes of security standards,
indirect SCI systems, have levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security,
adequate to maintain the SCI entity’s operational capability and promote the maintenance of fair
and orderly markets. Rule 1001(b) requires an SCI entity to establish, maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems operate in a
manner that complies with the Exchange Act and the rules regulations thereunder and the entity’s
rules and governing documents, as applicable. Rule 1001(c) requires an SCI entity to establish,
1923

See supra note 334 and accompanying text.

627

maintain, and enforce reasonably designed written policies and procedures that include the
criteria for identifying responsible SCI personnel, the designation and documentation of
responsible SCI personnel, and escalation procedures to quickly inform responsible SCI
personnel of potential SCI events. This section discusses the economic effects of requiring these
policies and procedures, both individually and as a whole.
The Commission believes the policies and procedures requirements as a whole should
reduce the risk and incidences of SCI events because they are requirements under Commission
rules rather than voluntary guidelines, and require SCI entities to establish, maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures related to capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, security,
compliance, responsible SCI personnel, and escalation. Also, policies and procedures
requirements as a whole should reduce the risk and incidences of SCI events by imposing
requirements on entities that are not currently participating in the ARP Inspection Program, and
by covering areas not currently within the scope of the ARP Inspection Program, such as policies
and procedures regarding systems compliance. 1924 The policies and procedures requirements in
Regulation SCI should help ensure faster recoveries from systems disruptions, systems
compliance issues, and systems intrusions. As discussed in Section VI.C.1, reducing the risk,
incidence, and duration of SCI events could reduce interruptions in the price discovery process
and liquidity flows and thus result in reduced periods with pricing inefficiencies.

1924

With respect to NASD and FINRA rules identified by commenters, although they have
some broad relation to certain aspects of the policies and procedures provisions under
Regulation SCI, the Commission is not persuaded that these rules, even when taken
together, are an appropriate substitute for the comprehensive approach in Regulation SCI
with respect to technology systems and system issues. See NASD Rule 3010(b)(1) and
FINRA Rule 3130. See also supra note 115.

628

The Commission also recognizes that the policies and procedures requirements of
Regulation SCI will impose certain costs. In general, the Commission believes that some SCI
entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program already comply with some of the
requirements of Rule 1001 and thus would incur lower initial costs to comply with the
requirements of Rule 1001 than SCI entities that do not participate in the ARP Inspection
Program. Additionally, some SCI entities that currently participate in the ARP Inspection
Program are large and have complex systems and, therefore, will incur more costs to comply
with Rule 1001 than others. Furthermore, SCI entities that do not currently participate in the
ARP Inspection Program will also face costs to comply with Rule 1001 if they do not already
have policies and procedures similar to those required by Rule 1001. These costs are discussed
further below.
Quantifiable Costs
In the SCI Proposal, based on discussion with industry participants, the Commission
estimated that, to comply with all requirements underlying the policies and procedures required
by proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2) other than paperwork burdens, on average, each SCI entity
would incur an initial cost of between approximately $400,000 and $3 million. 1925 Based on this
estimated range in costs, the Commission estimated that in the aggregate SCI entities would
1925

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18171. As explained in the SCI proposal, the
Commission preliminarily estimated a range of cost for complying with the policies and
procedures required by proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2) because some SCI entities are
already in compliance with some of these requirements and thus would likely need to
incur less costs to comply with the rules. For example, the Commission believed that
many SCI SROs (e.g., certain national securities exchanges and registered clearing
agencies) already have or have begun implementation of business continuity and disaster
recovery plans that include maintaining backup and recovery capabilities sufficiently
resilient and geographically diverse to ensure next business day resumption of trading
and two-hour resumption of clearance and settlement services following a wide-scale
disruption. See id. at 18171, n. 633.

629

incur a total initial cost of between approximately $17.6 million1926 and $132 million1927 to
comply with proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2). In addition, the Commission estimated that, to
comply with the policies and procedures required by proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2), on
average, each SCI entity would incur an ongoing annual cost of between approximately
$267,000 1928 and $2 million. 1929 Based on this estimated range, the Commission estimated that
in the aggregate SCI entities would incur a total annual ongoing cost of between approximately
$11.7 million1930 and $88 million. 1931
One commenter noted that the Commission did not provide sufficient discussion of the
basis for the cost estimates for complying with the policies and procedures required by proposed
Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2). 1932 However, this commenter was cautiously confident that its initial
cost for full implementation of proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2) would not exceed $3 million
plus four times the estimated burden under the Paperwork Reduction Act analysis, although the
commenter believed that such cost would not be less than half of such $3 million plus at least
three times the Paperwork Reduction Act estimate. 1933 This commenter further noted that the

1926

See id. at 18171, n. 634.

1927

See id. at 18171, n. 635.

1928

See id. at 18172, n. 637.

1929

See id. at 18172, n. 638.

1930

See id.

1931

See id. at 18172, n. 640.

1932

See MSRB Letter at 30.

1933

See id. at 31. According to this commenter, if as a result of the restrictive listing of
industry standards in Table A, it determines that it should adhere to one of the listed
standards rather than the standards to which it currently adheres, its cost of compliance
with proposed Rule 1000(b)(1) would be considerably increased and its total cost for
compliance with proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2) would likely be at or near $3 million
plus four times the estimated burden under the Paperwork Reduction Act analysis. See
630

approach taken by the Commission in the proposal with regard to federal securities law liabilities
and the safe harbors likely will result in increased insurance costs for SCI entities and higher
salaries for employees. 1934
Another commenter noted that, without further clarification, the broad scope of the
policies and procedures requirement under Regulation SCI could be burdensome, in terms of the
cost of developing and implementing new (or enhancing existing) policies and procedures, and in
terms of complying and documenting compliance under such policies and procedures. 1935
According to this commenter, these requirements could significantly increase technology project
costs (e.g., for testing, monitoring, and compliance staff) and would significantly prolong the
systems development lifecycle and time to market. 1936 With respect to the Commission’s cost
estimate for proposed Rules 1000(b)(1) and (2), another commenter noted that the Commission’s
id. As noted above in Section IV.B.1.b.iii, the Commission believes that staff guidance
should be characterized as listing examples of publications describing processes,
guidelines, frameworks, and/or standards for an SCI entity to consider looking to in
developing reasonable policies and procedures, rather than strictly as listing examples of
“standards.” As such, nothing that the staff may include in its guidance precludes an SCI
entity from adhering to standards such as ISO 27000, COBIT, or others referenced by
commenters to the extent they result in policies and procedures that comply with the
requirements of Rule 1001(a).
1934

See id. The commenter did not provide an estimate of the anticipated increased insurance
costs for SCI entities and higher salaries for employees. The Commission acknowledges
that SCI entities may incur increased insurance and personnel costs because of the
potential additional liability associated with Regulation SCI, although the Commission is
unable to estimate these costs given it lacks specific information regarding current
personnel and insurance costs and the amount of any potential increases associated with
changes in liability. The Commission also notes that many entities that fall within the
definition of SCI entity could already be subject to liability for systems issues and thus
may already largely be incurring these insurance and personnel costs.

1935

See FINRA Letter at 32. The estimated burden associated with the development and
maintenance of policies and procedures is discussed in the Paperwork Reduction Act
section above. See supra Section V.D.1.a.

1936

See FINRA Letter at 32.

631

estimates do not adequately account for the opportunity costs of delays in systems innovation. 1937
This commenter stated that the Commission did not address the significant costs of complying
with the requirements concerning the capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security of
systems. 1938
After considering the views of these commenters and in light of the changes to the
proposed rules, the Commission now estimates that, to comply with all requirements underlying
the policies and procedures required by Rules 1001(a) and (b), 1939 other than paperwork burdens,
on average, each SCI entity will incur an initial cost of between approximately $320,000 and
$2.4 million and an ongoing annual cost of between approximately $213,600 and $1.6
million.1940 The Commission notes that it has reduced the cost for complying with the policies
and procedures required by Rules 1001(a) and (b) in a variety of ways, including by, for
example: refining the definition of SCI systems; more explicitly allowing SCI entities to tailor
1937

See ITG Letter at 7. This commenter also noted that the estimates do not adequately
account for the monitoring and notification costs that would be engendered by the
proposal. See id.

1938

See id.

1939

These include, for example, establishing current and future capacity planning estimates,
capacity stress testing, reviewing and keeping current systems development and testing
methodology, regular reviews and testing to detect vulnerabilities, testing of all SCI
systems and changes to SCI systems prior to implementation, implementing a system of
internal controls, implementing a plan for assessments of the functionality of SCI
systems, implementing a plan of coordination and communication between regulatory
and other personnel of the SCI entity, including by responsible SCI personnel, designed
to detect and prevent systems compliance issues, and hiring additional staff.

1940

The Commission estimates an average range of cost for complying with the policies and
procedures required by Rules 1001(a) and (b) because some SCI entities are already in
compliance with some of these requirements. The Commission recognizes that, for SCI
entities that do not currently comply with the policies and procedures required by Rules
1001(a) and (b), their cost of compliance may, depending on their nature, size,
technology, business model, and other aspects of their business, be at the upper end of the
estimated average cost range.

632

policies and procedures consistent with a risk-based approach; having separate staff guidance on
current SCI industry standards rather than Commission guidance through proposed Table A, with
staff guidance characterized as listing examples of publications describing processes, guidelines,
frameworks, and/or standards for an SCI entity to consider looking to in developing reasonable
policies and procedures, rather than strictly as listing examples of “standards;” and focusing
compliance on the Exchange Act rather than federal securities laws generally.
At the same time, the Commission acknowledges that other aspects of the compliance
costs could potentially be higher for the adopted rules than the proposed rules. For example, the
requirement for a goal of two-hour resumption for all critical SCI systems (rather than only
clearance and settlement systems) could increase compliance costs for SCI entities with critical
SCI systems as compared to the proposal. However, as discussed above, the Commission has
specified that the stated recovery timeframes in Regulation SCI are goals, rather than inflexible
requirements. 1941 In addition, for some SCI entities that would have chosen to not use the
proposed SCI entity safe harbor, the Commission’s adoption of non-exhaustive, general
minimum elements for systems compliance policies and procedures in Rule 1001(b)(2) could
increase compliance costs as compared to the proposal. Based on the foregoing, the Commission
believes that it is reasonable to revise the estimate to reflect the more targeted scope and
increased flexibility of the adopted regulation, as compared to the proposal, in combination with
potential increased costs associated with compliance with Rules 1001(a)(2)(v) and 1001(b)(2),
and new costs associated with compliance with Rule 1001(a)(2)(vii). 1942 Therefore, the
Commission believes that on balance overall, the costs will be reduced, and in its best judgment,
1941

See supra note 504 and accompanying text.

1942

Rule 1001s(a)(2)(v), 1001(a)(2)(vii), and 1001(b)(2) are discussed further below.

633

each SCI entity is likely to incur an initial cost of between approximately $320,000 and $2.4
million and an ongoing annual cost of between approximately $213,600 and $1.6 million for
complying with the policies and procedures required by Rules 1001(a) and (b). However, the
Commission acknowledges that its cost estimates reflect a high degree of uncertainty. As noted
above, the compliance costs of Rule 1001 may depend on the complexity of SCI entities’
systems (e.g., the compliance costs will be higher for SCI entities with more complex systems).
The initial compliance costs associated with Rule 1001 may also vary across SCI entities
depending on the degree of current practices’ compliance with the requirements of Rule 1001.
Because it is difficult to gauge the precise degree of current compliance for each SCI entity in
estimating potential costs with respect to Rule 1001 at this time, the Commission is estimating a
range of compliance costs above.
The Commission estimates that, in the aggregate, SCI entities will incur a total initial cost
of between approximately $14 million 1943 and $106 million1944 to comply with the policies and
procedures required by Rules 1001(a) and (b). In addition, the Commission estimates that, in the
aggregate, SCI entities will incur total annual ongoing cost of between approximately $9
million1945 and $70 million. 1946 These cost estimates are intended to cover the cost of complying
with all substantive requirements under Rules 1001(a) and (b) other than paperwork related
burdens.

1943

$320,000 × 44 SCI entities = $14.1 million.

1944

$2.4 million × 44 SCI entities = $105.6 million.

1945

$213,600 × 44 SCI entities = $9.4 million.

1946

$1.6 million × 44 SCI entities = $70.4 million.

634

The Commission acknowledges that, for SCI entities, the requirements of Rules 1001(a)
and (b) could increase technology project costs, prolong the systems development lifecycle and
time to market, and result in opportunity costs because of potential delays in systems
innovation. 1947 On the other hand, as discussed throughout this release, the Commission believes
that entities that are important to the functioning of the U.S. securities markets should be
required to have policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure systems capacity,
integrity, resiliency, availability, security, and compliance. Further, as discussed above in
Sections IV.B.1 and IV.B.2, the Commission has focused the scope of Rules 1001(a) and (b) as
compared to the SCI Proposal. Moreover, in tandem with the adoption of a definition of critical
SCI systems, the Commission is making more clear that Rule 1001(a) permits SCI entities to
tailor policies and procedures consistent with a risk-based approach. With respect to Rule
1001(b), the Commission is adopting non-exhaustive, general minimum elements that an SCI
entity must include in its systems compliance policies and procedures. 1948
Benefits and Qualitative Costs
Capacity, Integrity, Resiliency, Availability, and Security
Rule 1001(a)(1) requires that each SCI entity establish, maintain, and enforce written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems and, for purposes of
security standards, indirect SCI systems, have levels of capacity, integrity, resiliency,
availability, and security, adequate to maintain the SCI entity’s operational capability and

1947

See supra note 1936 and accompanying text (discussing a commenter’s view regarding
the potential economic effects of the policies and procedures requirements).

1948

See supra note 1935 and accompanying text (discussing a commenter’s views that,
without clarification, the policies and procedures requirement under Regulation SCI
could be burdensome).

635

promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets. Rule 1001(a)(2)(i)-(iv) provides that an
SCI entity’s policies and procedures under Rule 1001(a) must include, at a minimum: (i) the
establishment of reasonable current and future technological infrastructure capacity planning
estimates; (ii) periodic capacity stress tests of systems to determine their ability to process
transactions in an accurate, timely, and efficient manner; (iii) a program to review and keep
current systems development and testing methodology of such systems; and (iv) regular reviews
and testing, as applicable, of systems, including backup systems, to identify vulnerabilities
pertaining to internal and external threats, physical hazards, and natural or manmade
disasters. 1949
Rules 1001(a)(1) and (2)(i)-(iv) codify and expand certain provisions of the ARP Policy
Statements. They also expand on the requirements under Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS for
ATSs that trade NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks. In particular, under the ARP Policy
Statements and through the ARP Inspection Program, ARP participants, among other things, are
expected to establish current and future capacity estimates; conduct capacity stress tests; and
conduct annual reviews that cover significant elements of the operations of the automation
process, including the capacity planning and testing process, contingency planning, systems
development methodology, and vulnerability assessments. Further, Rule 301(b)(6) requires
certain ATSs, with respect to those systems that support order entry, order routing, order
execution, transaction reporting, and trade comparison, to establish certain capacity estimates,
conduct periodic capacity stress tests of critical systems, develop and implement reasonable
procedures to review and keep current systems development and testing methodology, review the
vulnerability of their systems and data center computer operations to specified threats, establish
1949

See Rule 1001(a)(2) and supra Section IV.B.1.

636

adequate contingency and disaster recovery plans, conduct an independent review of their
systems controls annually for ensuring that Rule 301(b)(6)(ii)(A)-(E) are met and conduct a
review by senior management of a report of the independent review, and promptly notify the
Commission of certain systems outages and systems changes. 1950
As mentioned above, Rules 1001(a)(1) and (2)(i)-(iv) codify certain aspects of the ARP
Policy Statements. For SCI entities that are current participants in the ARP Inspection Program,
codifying these aspects into requirements to establish policies and procedures should help ensure
more robust systems that help realize the benefits of Regulation SCI discussed in Section
VI.C.1. 1951
In addition to the effects of the codification of aspects of the ARP Inspection Program,
the Commission believes that the rules would further reduce the risk and incidences of systems
issues affecting the markets by imposing requirements on entities that are not currently
participating in the ARP Inspection Program, and by covering systems and events not currently
within the scope of the ARP Inspection Program. For example, Rules 1001(a)(2)(i)-(iv) will help
maintain robust systems at SCI entities that currently do not have the policies and procedures in
place required by the rule. In particular, the Commission believes that, taken together, Rules
1001(a)(2)(i)-(iv) will benefit the securities markets by leading to the establishment,
maintenance, and enforcement of policies and procedures that will reduce the risks and
1950

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(ii).

1951

Likewise, the relocation and modification of certain requirements in Rule 301(b)(6) of
Regulation ATS applicable to significant-volume ATSs that trade NMS stocks and nonNMS stocks will help ensure that SCI ATSs create and maintain policies and procedures
to support robust systems. See supra note 2 and accompanying text (noting that
Regulation SCI, in addition to codifying the ARP Policy Statements, also supersedes and
replaces aspects of those policy statements codified in Rule 301(b)(6) under the
Exchange Act for significant-volume ATSs that trade NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks).

637

incidences of systems disruptions and systems intrusions. As noted above in Section VI.C.1, a
reduction in the risk and incidences of systems issues could reduce interruptions in the price
discovery process and liquidity flows.
Because current ARP participants will change their current practices to comply with
Rules 1001(a)(2)(i)-(iv), the Commission recognizes that these entities will incur compliance
costs that are incremental relative to the current compliance costs of the ARP Inspection
Program. 1952 Furthermore, SCI entities that are not currently participating in the ARP Inspection
Program may incur higher initial compliance costs to meet the requirements of Rules
1001(a)(2)(i)-(iv), compared to SCI entities that are current participants of the ARP Inspection
Program. The paperwork burdens are discussed in Section V, and other costs are included as
part of the quantified costs estimated above related to all requirements associated with Rules
1001(a) and (b) other than paperwork burdens. 1953
A few commenters discussed in detail how setting forth policies and procedures with
regard to systems development could yield benefits, such as efficient pricing of securities, to
markets. One commenter noted that preventing defects from entering in software construction is
the most cost effective approach to quality assurance. 1954 This commenter stated that it is ten
times cheaper to find a defect in development than it is during systems testing, and it is one
hundred times cheaper to fix a defect in development than in production (and this is not
accounting for the impact on business). 1955 In addition, this commenter noted that software of

1952

See supra Section VI.B (discussing current practices of SCI entities).

1953

See supra note 1940 and accompanying text.

1954

See CAST Letter at 10.

1955

See id.

638

higher quality is cheaper to maintain and easier to enhance, and that testing schedules for low
quality, large software projects are two to three times longer and more than twice as costly as
testing for high quality projects. 1956 According to information submitted by this commenter of
large, mission critical systems across several industries, improving overall structural quality by
10 percent reduces “ticket volume” by over 30 percent. 1957 This commenter believed that this
would be an inadvertent benefit of controlling integrity at the structural level that may even
compensate for the cost of other aspects of Regulation SCI. 1958 Another commenter noted that
the cost of a serious operational problem can rise to eight digits, and in extreme cases nine
digits. 1959 This commenter noted that these costs are often shared with market participants
beyond the owners of the disrupted systems. 1960 This commenter believed that the proposed
Rule 1000(b)(1) requirements are reasonable and their cost can be balanced against the losses
associated with the operational risks they address. 1961
The Commission generally agrees with commenters that setting forth policies and
procedures with regard to systems development could yield benefits to market participants and
SCI entities, including a potential reduction in losses due to SCI events. Rule 1001(a)(2)(iii)

1956

See id. (quoting Capers Jones and Olivier Bonsignour, The Economics of Software
Quality (2012)).

1957

See id. at 10-11.

1958

See id. at 11.

1959

See CISQ Letter at 2.

1960

See id. at 2.

1961

See id. at 2. See also CISQ2 Letter at 6 (stating, “[t]he cost of recent outages in SCI
systems easily justifies the additional effort in quality assurance. However, empirical
evidence from software industry improvement programs demonstrates that the additional
time added into quality assurance is more than compensated for by a reduction in rework
to produce [return on investments] of 5:1 or greater”).

639

requires SCI entities to establish a program to review and keep current systems development and
testing methodology for SCI systems and, for purposes of security standards, indirect SCI
systems. The Commission believes that development and testing systems are important in
ensuring the reliability and resiliency of SCI systems. More reliable and resilient systems should
help reduce the occurrences of SCI events and improve systems uptime for SCI entities, and thus
possibly result in a reduction in losses due to SCI events. Furthermore, the Commission
recognizes that the use of inadequately tested software in production could result in substantial
losses to market participants if it does not function as intended. For instance, if software
malfunctions, it may not route orders as intended and also could result in mispricing of
securities. Additionally, if a system’s capacity thresholds are improperly estimated, it may
become congested, resulting in higher indirect transaction costs due to lower execution quality
(e.g., decrease in order fill rates). The Commission believes that costs associated with Rule
1001(a)(2)(iii) are appropriate in light of the reduction in losses due to SCI events and other
benefits discussed throughout this Economic Analysis.
Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plans
Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) requires SCI entities’ policies and procedures to set forth business
continuity and disaster recovery plans that include maintaining backup and recovery capabilities
sufficiently resilient and geographically diverse and that are reasonably designed to achieve next
business day resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of critical SCI systems following a
wide-scale disruption. 1962 Therefore, as adopted, Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) puts an emphasis on trading

1962

FINRA Rule 4370 generally requires that a FINRA member maintain a written continuity
plan identifying procedures relating to an emergency or significant business disruption,
which is akin to adopted Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) requiring policies and procedures for
business continuity and disaster recovery plans. However, the FINRA rule does not
640

and critical SCI systems with respect to resumption following a wide-scale disruption. As
discussed above, the definition of critical SCI systems is intended to capture those systems that
are critical to the operation of the securities markets, including systems that are potential single
points of failure in the securities markets. The Commission understands that some SCI entities
already have, to an extent, policies and procedures that are required by Rule 1001(a)(2)(v), while
others would need to make more significant changes to their current practices. 1963
Rule 1001(a), among other things, is expected to help ensure prompt resumption of all
critical SCI systems, which in turn is expected to help minimize interruptions in trading and
liquidity after a wide-scale disruption. In addition, in the case of a wide-scale disruption,
multiple SCI entities may be affected by the same incident at the same time. Given that U.S.
securities market infrastructure is concentrated in relatively few areas, such as New York City,
New Jersey, and Chicago, maintaining backup and recovery capabilities that are geographically
diverse could facilitate resumption in trading and critical SCI systems following wide-scale
market disruptions. As discussed in detail in Section VI.C.1, the Commission expects the
reduction in the occurrence of trading interruptions and the duration of trading interruptions
would promote pricing efficiency, price discovery, and liquidity flows in markets.

include the requirement that the business continuity and disaster recovery plans be
reasonably designed to achieve next business day resumption of trading and two-hour
resumption of critical SCI systems following a wide-scale disruption, nor does it require
the functional and performance testing and coordination of industry or sector-testing of
such plans. See supra note 115.
1963

See infra note 1973 and accompanying text (discussing the estimated range of cost per
SCI entity to comply with the policies and procedures required by Rules 1001(a) and (b)).

641

One commenter noted that the Commission’s cost-benefit analysis in the SCI Proposal
did not take into consideration the already existing industry excess capacity as backup. 1964 With
respect to this commenter, the Commission understands, based on staff expertise, that systems
are sized to adequately handle message traffic with excess capacity under normal conditions and
in those situations that moderately exceed the norm. The Commission also understands,
however, that exchanges periodically receive escalated levels of message traffic due to
unanticipated events and must make real-time adjustments to manage the capacity of their
systems, such as queuing and/or throttling. Therefore, the Commission is not persuaded that
excess capacity is a reasonable alternative to backup systems because systems may reach their
capacity periodically. Also, as noted above, in the case of a wide-scale disruption, multiple SCI
entities may be affected by the same incident at the same time. Given that U.S. securities market
infrastructure is concentrated in relatively few areas, maintaining backup and recovery
capabilities that are geographically diverse could facilitate resumption in trading and critical SCI
systems following wide-scale market disruptions.
The Commission also received comments regarding the costs of maintaining
geographically diverse backup facilities under proposed Rule 1000(b)(1). One commenter stated
that the Commission did not appropriately consider the costs and benefits of maintaining
geographically diverse data centers to meet the next-day readiness requirement. 1965 This
commenter believed that the cost of establishing and maintaining geographically diverse data
centers alone will dwarf the estimated overall compliance cost of $400,000 to $3 million. 1966

1964

See Angel Letter at 14.

1965

See ISE Letter at 12. See also FIF Letter at 3.

1966

See ISE Letter at 12.

642

This commenter estimated that the incremental all-in, five-year cost to it to relocate its backup
site would be $17 million. 1967 This commenter noted that the geographically diverse backup
center requirement could also result in costs on members and users of the SCI entity. 1968
Another commenter noted that it maintains robust redundant and backup systems that exceed
regulatory requirements and provide adequate capacity, security, and resiliency for its trading
operations; however, the manpower and financial capital required to maintain and staff a
geographically diverse backup site would easily push its annual and recurring compliance cost
beyond the higher estimates provided by the Commission.1969
The Commission notes that the potential cost for maintaining geographically diverse
backup and recovery capabilities is likely less than those estimated by commenters given the
scope of the adopted rule. Specifically, because Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) does not require an SCI
entity to require its members or participants to use an SCI entity’s backup facility in the same
way they use the primary facility (i.e., does not require members or participants to co-locate their
systems at backup sites to replicate the speed and efficiency of the primary site), the requirement
for geographically diverse backup systems does not mean that the backup systems are required to
be identical (e.g., same speed and efficiency) to the primary facility. Nevertheless, the
Commission believes it is critical that SCI entities and their designated members or participants
be able to operate with the SCI entities’ backup systems in the event of a wide-scale disruption.
In addition, the Commission notes that Rule 1001(a) does not specify any particular minimum
distance or geographic location that would be necessary to achieve geographic diversity,
1967

See id.

1968

See id. The cost to members or participants of SCI entities in connection with business
continuity and disaster recovery plan testing is discussed in Section VI.C.2.b.vii below.

1969

See ITG Letter at 7-8.

643

although the Commission believes that backup sites should not rely on the same infrastructure
components, such as for transportation, telecommunications, water supply, and electric power.
Further, Regulation SCI does not require an SCI entity to have a geographically diverse backup
facility so distant from the primary facility that the SCI entity may not rely primarily on the same
labor pool to staff both facilities if it believed it to be appropriate.
With respect to commenters who expressed concern regarding the potential cost for
maintaining geographically diverse backup and recovery capabilities, the Commission cannot
estimate with confidence the precise costs for the creation of a new, geographically diverse
backup facility, given the wide range of message traffic that various exchanges, ATSs, and other
entities receive and the reasonable flexibility in the design of the backup facility. Given that
Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) does not require an SCI entity to require its members or participants to use an
SCI entity’s backup facility in the same way they use the primary facility, however, the
Commission believes that the upper bound of building a new backup facility is equal to the cost
of building a new primary facility. Given the Commission’s response to commenters’ concerns
regarding the requirement to maintain geographically diverse backup and recovery capabilities,
and the degree of flexibility within Regulation SCI to determine the precise nature and location
of its backup site, 1970 the Commission believes that the commenter’s estimate of $17 million
over five years (or $3.4 million per year), 1971 is high. Based on the Commission’s best judgment,
including taking into account Commission staff experience with SCI entities that have invested
in geographically diverse backup facilities in recent years, the Commission believes that the
average cost is more likely to be approximately $1.5 million annually for an SCI entity (that does
1970

See supra notes 541-544 and accompanying text.

1971

See supra note 1967 and accompanying text.

644

not already have geographically diverse backup facilities). Nevertheless, even were the costs to
be at the upper amount suggested by the commenter, the Commission believes the costs are
appropriate given that individual SCI entity resilience is fundamental to achieving the goal of
improving U.S. securities market infrastructure resilience. 1972
The Commission recognizes that SCI entities may encounter significantly different costs
in complying with the geographic diversity requirement underlying Rule 1001(a)(2)(v). As
noted in Section VI.B.2, nearly all national securities exchanges already have backup facilities
that do not rely on the same infrastructure components as those used by their primary facility.
For those national securities exchanges that do not have such backup facilities, the cost to build
such backup facilities will result in higher initial compliance costs than for national securities
exchanges that do. For other SCI entities (e.g., some SCI ATSs), the compliance costs to meet
the geographic diversity requirement would depend on the nature, size, technology, business
model, and other aspects of their business. 1973 Because SCI entities may encounter significantly
different costs in complying with the geographic diversity requirement, the Commission believes
that the initial compliance costs could have impact on competition among SCI entities.
The requirement to have policies and procedure to meet a goal of next day resumption in
trading and two-hour resumption in critical SCI systems will impose compliance costs for SCI
entities. The Interagency White Paper sets forth sound practices for core clearing and settlement

1972

See supra notes 499-544 and accompanying text.

1973

The Commission notes that its average estimated range of initial cost of approximately
$320,000 to $2.4 million per SCI entity to comply with Rules 1001(a) and (b), other than
paperwork burdens, includes the cost to build and maintain a geographically diverse
backup facility. The Commission estimates that the costs for SCI entities that do not
currently have a geographically diverse backup facility would be at the higher end of this
range.

645

organizations and firms that play significant roles in critical financial markets, 1974 and the 2003
BCP Policy Statement discusses the resumption of certain trading markets following a widescale disruption. 1975 As noted in Section VI.B.1, the Commission believes that SCI entities
currently use an array of measures to restore systems when disruptions occur. However, the twohour resumption goal for all critical SCI systems differs from the goals set forth in the
Interagency White Paper insofar as the goal for Regulation SCI applies to critical SCI systems
generally. 1976 To this extent, Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) would impose additional costs for SCI entities
that currently have practices that are consistent with the Interagency White Paper for clearance
and settlement systems but not all critical SCI systems. The next business day resumption goal
for certain trading markets set forth in the 2003 BCP Policy Statement is consistent with the
resumption goal for trading in Rule 1001(a)(2)(v). For some SCI entities that do not have
policies and procedures with respect to critical SCI systems consistent with the Interagency
White Paper and the 2003 BCP Policy Statement, the Commission believes that the initial
compliance costs associated with establishing policies and procedures with respect to next day
resumption in trading and two-hour resumption in all critical SCI systems would be larger than

1974

According to the Interagency White Paper, core clearing and settlement organizations
should develop the capacity to recover and resume clearing and settlement activities
within the business day on which the disruption occurs with the overall goal of achieving
recovery and resumption within two hours after an event. See Interagency White Paper,
supra note 504, at 17812.

1975

The 2003 BCP Policy Statement states that each SRO market and ECN should have a
business continuity plan that anticipates the resumption of trading, in the securities traded
by that market, no later than the next business day following a wide-scale disruption. See
2003 BCP Policy Statement, supra note 504, at 56658.

1976

See supra Section IV.A.2.c (discussing the definition of critical SCI systems) and supra
Section IV.B.1 (discussing the Commission’s rationale for applying the two hour
recovery goal to critical SCI systems generally instead of clearance and settlement
services specifically).

646

those that do. The costs associated with designing and modifying policies and procedures with
respect to systems resumption requirements are included in the costs related to paperwork
burdens in Section V. Furthermore, as discussed in Section VI.C.1, the Commission believes
that the systems resumption requirements of Rule 1001(a)(2)(v) will have an impact on
competition among SCI entities in part because the associated initial compliance costs will be
different among SCI entities.
Market data
Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi) provides that an SCI entity’s policies and procedures must include
standards that result in systems being designed, developed, tested, maintained, operated, and
surveilled in a manner that facilitates the successful collection, processing, and dissemination of
market data. 1977 Unlike the other provisions of Rule 1001(a)(2) discussed above, Rule
1001(a)(2)(vi) is not addressed in Regulation ATS or the ARP Policy Statements.
The Commission believes that Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi) should help ensure that timely and
accurate market data is available to all market participants. Given that market participants rely
on consolidated market data in a variety of ways, including making markets, formulating trading
algorithms, and placing orders, the Commission believes that this is an important benefit of
Regulation SCI, although the Commission recognizes that SCI entities currently already take
measures to facilitate the successful collection, processing, and dissemination of market data. As
discussed in Section VI.C.1, the Commission believes that the further improvements in
timeliness and accuracy of market data would help further ensure pricing efficiencies and
uninterrupted liquidity flows in markets. As Rule 1001(a)(2)(vi) will be a new requirement for
SCI entities, it will impose incremental compliance costs on SCI entities in setting aside
1977

See Rule 1001(a)(2) and supra Section IV.B.1.

647

additional resources to satisfy the requirements of the rule. These costs are included as part of
the quantified costs estimated above related to all requirements underlying Rules 1001(a) and (b)
other than paperwork burdens. 1978
Monitoring
Rule 1001(a)(2)(vii) provides that an SCI entity’s policies and procedures must include
monitoring of systems to identify potential SCI events. Rule 1001(a)(2)(vii) imposes a new
requirement that is not addressed in Regulation ATS or the ARP Policy Statements.
The Commission believes that SCI entities, particularly those that participate in the ARP
Inspection Program, already monitor their systems in order to identify potential systems issues.
Nevertheless, by defining “SCI event” and requiring policies and procedures for monitoring
systems to identify potential SCI events, the Commission believes that Rule 1001(a)(2)(vii)
should further help ensure that SCI entities identify potential SCI events, which could allow
them to prevent some SCI events from occurring or to take timely appropriate corrective action
after the occurrence of SCI events. As discussed above, the Commission believes the reduction
in the occurrence of SCI events or the reduction in the duration of SCI events that disrupt
markets would reduce pricing inefficiencies and promote price discovery and liquidity.
Although the Commission believes that SCI entities already monitor their systems in order to
identify potential systems issues, the Commission believes that SCI entities will have to allocate
additional resources to comply with the requirements of Rule 1001(a)(2)(vii), including
potentially hiring additional staff, and thus will incur costs. These costs are included as part of
the quantified costs estimated above related to all requirements underlying Rules 1001(a) and (b)
other than paperwork burdens.
1978

See supra note 1940 and accompanying text.

648

Current SCI Industry Standards
Rule 1001(a)(4) deems an SCI entity’s policies and procedures under Rule 1001(a) to be
reasonably designed if they are consistent with current SCI industry standards. 1979 However,
Rule 1001(a)(4) specifically states that compliance with current SCI industry standards is not the
exclusive means to comply with the requirements of Rule 1001(a). Therefore, as adopted, Rule
1001(a)(4) provides flexibility to allow each SCI entity to determine how to best meet the
requirements in Rule 1001(a), taking into account, for example, its nature, size, technology,
business model, and other aspects of its business. Thus, Rule 1001(a)(4) allows SCI entities to
choose the technology standards that best fit with their business, promoting efficiency.
Furthermore, as discussed in Section IV.B.1, staff guidance lists examples of publications
describing processes, guidelines, frameworks, or standards for an SCI entity to consider looking
to in developing reasonable policies and procedures under Rule 1001(a). The reference to the
publications which the staff may include, and which the Commission believes should be general
and flexible enough to be compatible with many widely-recognized technology standards, will
help SCI entities to implement and comply with Regulation SCI. 1980
Some commenters expressed concern that SCI entities would closely adhere to the
publications listed in Table A rather than take advantage of the flexibility built into the proposed
rule out of concern that, if they did not, they would expose themselves to potential regulatory

1979

Current SCI industry standards are required to be comprised of information technology
practices that are widely available to information technology professionals in the
financial sector and issued by an authoritative body that is a U.S. governmental entity or
agency, association of U.S. governmental entities or agencies, or widely recognized
organization. See Rule 1001(a)(4).

1980

See supra Section IV.B.1.b (discussing the role of staff guidance on current SCI industry
standards).

649

action for failure to comply with Regulation SCI. 1981 As discussed above in Section IV.B.1,
Rule 1001(a) allows for flexibility in choosing standards or guidelines when an SCI entity is
designing policies and procedures required by that rule. Moreover, the staff guidance lists
examples of publications describing processes, guidelines, frameworks, or standards for an SCI
entity to consider looking to in developing reasonable policies and procedures under Rule
1001(a). As noted in Section IV.B.1, the Commission understands that many SCI entities are
already following other technology standards, such as ISO 27000 and COBIT. The staff
guidance would not preclude SCI entities from adhering to standards such as ISO 27000,
COBIT, or others, to the extent they result in policies and procedures that comply with the
requirements of Rule 1001(a). 1982 Because there is no requirement for SCI entities to follow the
publications listed as staff guidance, there is no separate compliance cost associated with the
staff guidance in addition to the cost of complying with Rule 1001(a). As discussed throughout
this section, the Commission recognizes that, in general, there will be costs associated with
designing policies and procedures required by Rule 1001(a). Such costs to SCI entities that
already set forth their policies and procedures based on industry standards, or that follow the
publications listed in the staff guidance or comparable publications as a guide, would be
minimal. On the other hand, other SCI entities that decide to modify their policies and
procedures and those that do not have such policies and procedures in place may incur greater
1981

See, e.g., MSRB Letter at 11; Angel Letter at 8; BATS Letter at 6; and NYSE Letter at
20-21.

1982

Likewise, the staff guidance would not preclude an SCI entity from adopting a derivative
of multiple standards, and/or customizing one or more standards for the particular system
at issue. In assessing whether an SCI entity’s use of such an approach in designing its
policies and policies and procedures would be “deemed” to be reasonably designed, the
Commission’s inquiry would be into whether its policies and procedures were consistent
with standards meeting the criteria in adopted Rule 1001(a)(4).

650

costs in designing policies and procedures required by Rule 1001(a). The costs associated with
modifying and designing policies and procedures are included in the costs related to paperwork
burdens in Section V.
Systems Compliance
Rule 1001(b)(1) requires each SCI entity to establish, maintain, and enforce written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems operate in a manner
that complies with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder, and the entity’s
rules and governing documents, as applicable. Rule 1001(b)(2)(i)-(iv) provides that an SCI
entity’s policies and procedures under Rule 1001(b)(1) must include, at a minimum: (i) testing
of all SCI systems and any changes to SCI systems prior to implementation; (ii) a system of
internal controls over changes to SCI systems; (iii) a plan for assessments of the functionality of
SCI systems designed to detect systems compliance issues, including by responsible SCI
personnel and by personnel familiar with applicable provisions of the Act and the rules and
regulations thereunder and the SCI entity’s rules and governing documents; and (iv) a plan of
coordination and communication between regulatory and other personnel of the SCI entity,
including by responsible SCI personnel, regarding SCI systems design, changes, testing, and
controls designed to detect and prevent systems compliance issues. The Commission recognizes
that SCI entities currently take varying measures to ensure that their systems operate in a manner
that complies with relevant laws and rules. These practices at SCI entities may include
escalating a compliance issue upon discovery, including legal and compliance personnel in the
review of systems changes, and periodically reviewing rulebooks.
The Commission believes that Rule 1001(b) should help to ensure that SCI entities
operate their SCI systems in compliance with the Exchange Act and relevant rules and should

651

help to reduce the occurrence of systems compliance issues. For example, the tests under Rule
1001(b)(2)(i) should help SCI entities to identify potential compliance issues before new systems
or systems changes are implemented; the internal controls under Rule 1001(b)(2)(ii) should help
to ensure that SCI entities remain vigilant against compliance issues when changing their
systems and resolve potential compliance issues before the changes are implemented; and the
systems assessment plans under Rule 1001(b)(2)(iii) and the coordination and communication
plans under Rule 1001(b)(2)(iv) should help technology, regulatory, and other relevant personnel
(including responsible SCI personnel) of SCI entities to work together to prevent compliance
issues, and to promptly identify and address compliance issues if they occur. To the extent that
compliance with Rule 1001(b) reduces the occurrence of systems compliance issues, Rule
1001(b) should help ensure investor protection. Because SCI entities will need to allocate their
resources towards establishing, maintaining, and enforcing policies and procedures with regard
to systems compliance, Rule 1001(b) will impose compliance costs on SCI entities. These costs
are included as part of the quantified costs estimated above related to all requirements underlying
Rules 1001(a) and (b) other than paperwork burdens. 1983
One commenter suggested that the Commission follow the Federal Aviation
Administration’s and NASA’s approach, where, according to this commenter, individuals are
encouraged to report safety issues and penalties are waived where there is self-reporting. 1984 As
1983

See supra note 1940 and accompanying text. However, the costs associated with
establishing and maintaining policies and procedures are included in the costs related to
paperwork burdens in Section V.

1984

See Angel Letter at 3-4. This commenter also stated that, in the SCI Proposal, the
Commission did not analyze how other government regulatory agencies in the U.S. and
elsewhere address technology risks (e.g., in the aviation, nuclear power, electricity,
telecommunications, medical, and banking sectors). See Angel Letter at 3 and 15. The
Commission notes that, in considering the adoption of Regulation SCI, it has considered
652

discussed above in Section IV.B.2.b, the Commission is not persuaded that it would be
appropriate to provide a safe harbor for all problems that are self-reported by SCI entities and
individuals because the Commission is not persuaded that the suggested self-report safe harbor
will effectively further the intent of Regulation SCI. 1985 The extent to which regulators’
reporting rules offer safe harbor protection is determined by particular circumstances and
regulatory objectives. For purposes of Regulation SCI, a blanket safe harbor provision of the
type proposed by the commenter would reduce incentives for SCI entities to take the proactive
actions required to ensure the compliance of their SCI systems and, thus, could undermine the
benefits of Regulation SCI discussed in Section IV.C.1.
Responsible SCI Personnel
Rule 1001(c) requires an SCI entity to establish, maintain, and enforce reasonably
designed written policies and procedures that include the criteria for identifying responsible SCI
personnel, the designation and documentation of responsible SCI personnel, and escalation
procedures to quickly inform responsible SCI personnel of potential SCI events. Rule 1001(c)
imposes a requirement that is not addressed in Regulation ATS or the ARP Policy Statements.
The Commission believes that requiring policies and procedures to identify and designate
responsible SCI personnel and to establish escalation procedures to quickly inform responsible
some of the current practices in other industries, such as those discussed by panelists at
the Technology Roundtable (e.g., aviation, nuclear power). See supra note 15 and
Transcript of the Technology Roundtable, at 42-45.
1985

The Commission notes that, in addition to dealing with a different problem in different
industries, the “waiving of penalties” cited by the commenter has limitations (e.g., the
ASRS system cited by the comment suspends safe harbor protection for repeat violators
and does not offer safe harbor for certain types of violations). Safe harbor protection for
self-reporters may be appropriate in some circumstances. However, the Commission
believes that in the specific context of Regulation SCI, such safe harbor protections
would not further the intent of the regulation.

653

SCI personnel of potential SCI events should help to effectively alert responsible SCI personnel
of potential SCI events, in order for such personnel to determine whether an SCI event has
occurred so that any appropriate actions can be taken in accordance with the requirements of
Regulation SCI without unnecessary delay. As such, Rule 1001(c) should help reduce the
duration of SCI events as SCI entities should become aware of potential SCI events and take
appropriate corrective actions more quickly. The reduction in the duration of SCI events would
benefit markets as it would promote pricing efficiency and price discovery as discussed in
Section VI.C.1.
The Commission believes that the costs associated with Rule 1001(c) are attributed to
paperwork burdens, which are discussed in Section V.D.1.a above. 1986 The Commission does
not believe that Rule 1001(c) will impose significant other costs on SCI entities because these
entities already identify and designate responsible SCI personnel and have escalation
procedures. 1987
Periodic Review
Rules 1001(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(2) require each SCI entity to periodically review the
effectiveness of the policies and procedures required under Rules 1001(a), (b), and (c),
respectively, and to take prompt action to remedy deficiencies in such policies and procedures.
Regulation ATS and the ARP Policy Statements do not explicitly address the periodic review of
policies and procedures and remediation of deficient policies and procedures.
1986

When monetized, the paperwork burden would result in approximately $1.7 million
initially and $611,000 annually for all SCI entities in the aggregate.

1987

As noted above, several commenters emphasized the importance of escalation procedures
at SCI entities, pursuant to which technology staff or junior employees could assess a
systems problem and escalate the issue up the chain of command to management as well
as legal and/or compliance personnel. See supra note 740 and accompanying text.

654

The Commission believes that requiring periodic review of the policies and procedures
and remedial actions to address any deficiencies in the policies and procedures will help to
ensure that SCI entities maintain robust policies and procedures and update them when necessary
so that the benefits of Rules 1001(a), (b), and (c) should continue to be realized. As such, the
Commission believes that Rules 1001(a)(3), (b)(3), and (c)(2) will help realize the benefits of
Regulation SCI, and would facilitate price discovery and liquidity flow, as discussed in Section
VI.C.1. These requirements, however, will impose costs on SCI entities because they will have
to use resources to review the policies and procedures required by Rules 1001(a), (b), and (c)
beyond the resources currently expended for this purpose or will have to take more prompt
remedial action to remedy any identified deficiencies. The Commission expects that these costs
generally will arise following an SCI entity’s periodic review of the effectiveness of its policies
and procedures and as a result of SCI events. The Commission believes that the costs associated
with the review and update requirements are attributed to paperwork burdens, which are
discussed in Section V.D.1.a above. 1988 However, the Commission recognizes that, if an SCI
entity takes prompt or unplanned remedial action following the discovery of deficiencies in its
policies and procedures, this may result in indirect costs (i.e., opportunity costs) to SCI entities
because they may need to delay or shift their resources away from profitable projects and
reallocate their resources towards taking prompt or unplanned remedial actions required by the
rules. However, it is difficult to assess such indirect costs imposed on SCI entities because the
Commission lacks information necessary to provide a reasonable estimate. For example, the

1988

As noted in Section V.D.1.a above, the paperwork burden related to the review of the
policies and procedures is included in the estimated annual ongoing burden of Rules
1001(a), (b), and (c).

655

Commission does not have comprehensive and detailed information on the value of the potential
forgone projects of SCI entities.
ii.

Corrective Action – Rule 1002(a)

Rule 1002(a) requires an SCI entity to begin to take appropriate corrective action upon
any responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has
occurred. Rule 1002(a) also requires corrective action to include, at a minimum, mitigating
potential harm to investors and market integrity resulting from the SCI event and devoting
adequate resources to remedy the SCI event as soon as reasonably practicable. Thus, it would
not be appropriate for an SCI entity to unnecessarily delay the start of corrective action once its
responsible SCI personnel have a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred,
and the SCI entity would be required to focus on mitigating potential harm to investors and
market integrity resulting from the SCI event and devoting adequate resources to remedy the SCI
event as soon as reasonably practicable. The Commission believes that SCI entities already have
a variety of procedures in place to take corrective actions when system issues occur. However,
Rule 1002(a) will likely require modifications to those existing practices in part because the rule
specifies the timing and enumerates certain goals for corrective action. 1989
The Commission believes that the corrective action requirement will reduce the length of
systems disruptions, systems compliance issues, and systems intrusions, and thus, as noted in
Section VI.C.1, reduce the negative effects of those interruptions on the SCI entity and market
participants. Additionally, to the extent that corrective action could involve wide-scale systems
1989

For example, although the Commission believes that market participants already take
corrective actions when system issues occur, currently, when taking corrective action,
market participants may not always focus on mitigating potential harm to investors and
market integrity or devoting adequate resources to remedy the issues as soon as
reasonably practicable, as SCI entities are required to do under Rule 1002(a).

656

upgrades, some SCI entities may potentially seek to accelerate capital expenditures, for example,
by updating their systems with newer technology earlier than they might have otherwise to
comply with Regulation SCI. As such, Rule 1002(a) could further help ensure that SCI entities
invest sufficient resources as soon as reasonably practicable to address systems issues.
The Commission recognizes that Rule 1002(a) may require SCI entities to undertake
corrective action sooner and/or to increase investments in newer and more updated systems
earlier than they might have otherwise. The Commission thus believes that Rule 1002(a) could
impose modestly higher costs for SCI entities in responding to SCI events relative to their
current practice. 1990 But, given the wide variety of current practices, the Commission is unable
to estimate the incremental costs associated with the required changes. Furthermore, if
Regulation SCI reduces the frequency and severity of SCI events in the future, the cost of
corrective action could similarly decline over time. However, the Commission cannot estimate
these costs because the degree to which Regulation SCI will reduce the frequency and severity of
SCI events is unknown. The Commission also believes that, if an SCI entity takes corrective
action sooner than they might have without the requirements of Regulation SCI, this may impose
indirect costs (i.e., opportunity costs) to SCI entities because they may have to delay or reallocate
their resources away from profitable projects and direct their resources toward taking corrective
action required by the rule. However, the Commission acknowledges that it is difficult to assess
such indirect costs imposed on SCI entities. For instance, the Commission does not have
comprehensive and detailed information on the value of the potential foregone projects of SCI
entities. Consequently, the Commission is, at this time, unable to estimate the costs of Rule
1990

See also MSRB Letter at 32 (commenting that under most circumstances, any increased
cost due to proposed Rule 1000(b)(3) would be modest since corrective action normally
would already be taken).

657

1002(a) of Regulation SCI because the Commission lacks information necessary to provide a
reasonable cost estimate.
Several commenters stated that the requirements of proposed Rule 1000(b)(3) put too
great an emphasis on immediate corrective action at the expense of thoroughly analyzing the SCI
event and its cause, considering potential remedies, and/or acting in accordance with internal
policies and procedures before committing to a plan to take corrective action. 1991 Partly in
response to this concern, the Commission has modified the rule as adopted from the proposal.
The Commission agrees that an SCI entity should be given appropriate time to perform an initial
analysis and preliminary investigation into a potential systems issue before the corrective
obligations are triggered. If a corrective action were to be applied without such analysis or
investigation, then the impact of an SCI event could persist, exacerbating or prolonging its
negative effects on markets and market participants. The Commission notes that Rule 1002(a)
does not use the term “immediate.” Rather, Rule 1002(a) requires that corrective action be taken
“as soon as reasonably practicable” once the triggering standard has been met. The Commission
believes that, because the facts and circumstances of each specific SCI event will be different,
this standard would help ensure that an SCI entity takes necessary corrective action soon after an
SCI event, but not without sufficient time to first consider what is the appropriate action to
remedy the SCI event in a particular situation and how such corrective action should be
implemented. 1992

1991

See SIFMA Letter at 3; OCC Letter at 14; Joint SROs Letter at 11; LiquidPoint Letter at
4; DTCC Letter at 10; and Direct Edge Letter at 7.

1992

See also supra Section IV.B.3.a (discussing in more detail the triggering standard for
corrective action, Commission notification, and information dissemination) and Section
IV.B.3.b (discussing the corrective action requirement).

658

iii.

Commission Notification – Rule 1002(b)

As discussed above in Section IV.B.3.c, Rule 1002(b) requires SCI entities to provide
notifications to the Commission regarding SCI events. Specifically, upon any responsible SCI
personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred, an SCI entity is
required to notify the Commission of the SCI event immediately. Within 24 hours of any
responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred,
an SCI entity is required to submit a more detailed written notification, on a good faith, best
efforts basis, pertaining to the SCI event. Until such time as the SCI event is resolved and the
SCI entity’s investigation of the SCI event is closed, the SCI entity is required to provide updates
regularly, or at such frequency as requested by a representative of the Commission. The SCI
entity is also required to submit a detailed final written notification after the SCI event is
resolved and the SCI entity’s investigation of the event is closed (and an additional interim
written notification, if the SCI event is not resolved or the investigation is not closed within a
specified period of time). Finally, SCI entities are required to notify the Commission of
information regarding de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions on a
quarterly basis.
The Commission believes that most, if not all, major systems incidents are reported by
ARP entities to the Commission and that many “de minimis” systems issues are documented
internally by SCI entities as part of their incident management systems. For those entities that do
not participate in the ARP Inspection Program, the Commission also believes that some internal
documentation of systems incidents exists. In addition, the Commission notes that some SCI
entities currently notify the Commission of certain systems compliance issues.

659

Rule 1002(b) will apply to more entities (e.g., some SCI ATSs), more systems (e.g.,
market regulation and market surveillance systems, additional market data systems), and more
types of systems issues (e.g., systems compliance issues) than the ARP Policy Statements, and
also require more detailed reporting to the Commission. 1993 The Commission believes that Rule
1002(b) will enhance the effectiveness of Commission oversight of the operation of SCI entities.
For example, one commenter suggested that SCI events notification results in greater
transparency for the Commission, with multiple benefits, including ensuring that the
Commission has a view into problems at particular SCI entities for regulatory purposes as well
as perspective on the effect of a single problem to the market at-large. 1994 Further, the
Commission believes that providing written notifications to the Commission could help prevent
systems failures from being dismissed as momentary issues, because notification would help
focus the SCI entity’s attention on the issue and encourage allocation of SCI entity resources to
resolve the issue as soon as reasonably practicable.
As noted in Section IV.B.3.c, the Commission received comment letters that discuss the
resource and efficiency demands of the Commission notification requirement. 1995 Some
commenters expressed concern that SCI entities may feel compelled to characterize and report a
greater number of systems anomalies as disruptions to comply with Regulation SCI, 1996 and that
the proposal would result in SCI entities having “shadow staff” on hand solely for reporting SCI

1993

See supra Section IV.B.3.c (discussing in detail the requirements of Rule 1002(b)).

1994

See Lauer Letter at 8.

1995

See, e.g., UBS Letter at 3; Omgeo Letter at 16; MSRB Letter at 19; OCC Letter at 14;
SunGard Letter at 5; Joint SROs Letter at 7; and NYSE Letter at 22.

1996

See Joint SROs Letter at 9-10.

660

events so as to not divert staff away from working to resolve SCI events. 1997 While the
Commission is adopting the definitions of systems disruptions, systems compliance issues, and
systems intrusions, and providing discussions of these definitions in this release, the Commission
acknowledges that some SCI entities could be overly cautious in seeking to be in compliance
with Regulation SCI and therefore over-report systems issues to the Commission. Furthermore,
the Commission notes that some SCI entities currently notify the Commission of systems related
issues under the ARP Inspection Program or as part of their current business practice, but the
Commission believes that SCI entities will have to allocate additional resources to meet the
Commission notification requirement. Although the estimated cost to comply with the adopted
notification provisions is greater than the estimate in the SCI Proposal, the Commission is not
persuaded that the adopted rule, with its more targeted scope, will require SCI entities to have a
“shadow staff” on hand solely for reporting SCI events. As discussed in Section IV.B.3.c, the
Commission believes that concerns with respect to resource demands regarding the Commission
notification requirements have been substantially mitigated by the numerous changes from the
proposal, such as the adoption of a quarterly reporting framework for de minimis systems
disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions; the adoption of an exception from the
Commission notification requirements for de minimis systems compliance issues; the revised
definitions of SCI systems, indirect SCI systems, systems disruption, and systems compliance
issue; and the reduction in the obligations SCI entities have with respect to reporting
requirements. In addition, the Commission is not persuaded that the burden of the Commission
notification requirement will significantly reduce SCI entities’ ability to adequately respond to
SCI events. It is the Commission’s experience that the staff engaging in corrective action to
1997

See FINRA Letter at 19.

661

resolve an SCI event is generally distinct from the staff that has been charged with notifying the
Commission of systems issues.
The compliance costs associated with Rule 1002(b) are attributed to the paperwork
burden of Commission notifications of SCI events, including recordkeeping and submission of
quarterly reports with respect to de minimis SCI events, as applicable. 1998 As discussed in the
PRA, with respect to SCI events that are not de minimis, the Commission has estimated the total
annual hourly burden to comply with Rules 1002(b)(1)-(4) to be 125,180 hours for all SCI
entities (monetized to be approximately $40 million), or 2,845 hours per SCI entity. 1999 This
estimate is greater than that estimated in the SCI Proposal (which estimate was 58,080 hours for
all SCI entities, or 1,320 hour per SCI entity to comply with proposed Rules 1000(b)(4)(i)-(iii)).
As more fully explained in the PRA, the Commission has increased its estimate to comply with
the Commission notification provisions in Rules 1002(b)(1)-(4), notwithstanding the more
targeted scope of the adopted rule, as compared to the proposed rule. These increased estimates
are in response to comment that the estimates in the SCI Proposal were too low, particularly with
respect to the time necessary for an SCI entity to prepare, review, and submit the required
notifications. 2000 In addition, for Rule 1002(b)(5), which requires recordkeeping of all de
minimis SCI events and quarterly reporting of de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis
systems intrusions, the Commission has estimated a total of 7,040 hours for all SCI entities
(monetized to be approximately $2 million), or 160 hours per SCI entity, for Commission
1998

When monetized, the paperwork burden would result in approximately $42 million, in
addition to approximately $2 million in outsourcing cost, annually for all SCI entities in
the aggregate.

1999

See supra Section V.D.2.a (discussing the Commission’s estimate of the hours required to
comply with Rule 1002(b)).

2000

See id.

662

notification. The number of SCI events (de minimis and otherwise), and the burdens to comply
with notification requirements will likely vary among individual SCI entities, based on the nature
of their business, technology, and the relative criticality of each of their SCI systems.
In addition, the Commission believes that most, if not all, SCI entities already have some
internal procedures for determining the severity of a systems issue. Nevertheless, to the extent
that an SCI entity must determine whether an SCI event is a de minimis SCI event, Rule 1002(b)
may impose one-time implementation costs on SCI entities associated with developing a process
for ensuring that they are able to quickly and correctly make such determinations, as well as
ongoing costs in reviewing the adopted process. The initial and ongoing burden associated with
identifying certain systems and SCI events is discussed in Section V.D.3.b. 2001
Proposed Rule 1000(b)(4) did not distinguish de minimis SCI events from other SCI
events in terms of the timing or type of Commission notifications. The Commission believes
that the adopted quarterly Commission reporting requirement for de minimis systems disruptions
and de minimis systems intrusions, and the exception from the Commission reporting
requirement for de minimis systems compliance issues, will reduce costs related to Commission
reporting (as compared to the costs of complying with the proposed Commission notification
requirements) for SCI entities, and could facilitate more efficient allocation of SCI entities’
resources toward more significant systems issues because de minimis SCI events would be
subject to a recordkeeping requirement and de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis
systems intrusions would be subject to a quarterly reporting requirement, rather than a
2001

When monetized, the paperwork burden would result in approximately $1.1 million
initially and $413,000 annually for all ARP entities in the aggregate, and approximately
$885,000 initially and $292,000 annually for all non-ARP entities in the aggregate.
These estimates include the identification of critical SCI systems, major SCI events, and
de minimis SCI events.

663

requirement to report such events to the Commission more immediately. As de minimis SCI
events are defined to have no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market
participants, the Commission believes that the recordkeeping requirement and quarterly reporting
requirement, as applicable, will allow both the SCI entity and its personnel, as well as the
Commission and its staff, to focus more of their attention and resources on other, more
significant SCI events. Moreover, the quarterly Commission notification requirement for de
minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions will help SCI entities and the
Commission to gather information on the nature, types, and frequency of de minimis SCI events
and, thus, help identify potential weaknesses in systems across SCI entities and Commission’s
ability to monitor market events. The Commission believes that the quarterly reporting
requirement for de minimis systems disruptions and de minimis systems intrusions balances the
interest of SCI entities in having a limited reporting burden for de minimis systems disruptions
and de minimis systems intrusions with the Commission’s interest in oversight of the
information technology programs of SCI entities.
Furthermore, proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(iii) would have required an SCI entity to submit
written updates pertaining to an SCI event until the SCI event is resolved. The Commission has
revised the update requirement from the proposal in adopted Rule 1002(b)(3) so that the
submission of updates may be provided either orally or in written form. 2002 This revision should
reduce costs as compared to proposed Rule 1000(b)(4) by providing flexibility to SCI entities
and because oral notifications will likely result in a lower burden than written notifications.
The Commission has also modified the 24-hour written notification requirement in
adopted Rule 1002(b) to make clear that the written notification provided within 24 hours be
2002

See supra Section IV.B.3.c.

664

submitted on a good faith, best effort basis. Compared to the proposed rule, the Commission
believes the adopted rules will help provide certainty to SCI entities that they will not be
accountable for unintentional inaccuracies or omissions contained in these submissions. The
“best efforts” standard will also help to ensure that SCI entities will make a diligent and timely
attempt to provide all the information required by the written notification requirement, thus
permitting the Commission to effectively monitor SCI events.
As discussed in Section IV.B.3.c, with respect to submitting final written notifications,
proposed Rule 1000(b)(4)(ii) would have required the submission of the information required to
be included in the final written notification within a shorter time frame. By requiring that the
final written notification be submitted after resolution of an SCI event, the Commission believes
that the adopted rule will encourage SCI entities to allocate their resources efficiently in
resolving the SCI event.
One commenter expressed concern that, without a safe harbor and a guarantee of
immunity, the disclosures to the Commission required under Regulation SCI would provide a
roadmap for litigation against non-SRO entities. 2003 As discussed in Section IV.B.2.b, the
occurrence of a systems compliance issue does not necessarily mean that the SCI entity will be
subject to an enforcement action. Rather, the Commission will exercise its discretion to initiate
an enforcement action if the Commission determines that action is warranted, based on the
particular facts and circumstances of an individual situation. Moreover, the Commission
recognizes that compliance with Regulation SCI will increase the amount of information about
2003

See OTC Markets Letter at 15-16 (stating that “entities that do not have SRO immunity,
such as ATSs, may be subject to liability based on information reported under Reg. SCI’s
Rule 1000(b)(4)(iv)…[w]ithout a safe harbor and a guarantee of immunity, this kind of
disclosure provides a roadmap for litigation against non-SRO SCI entities”). See also
FIF Letter at 5.

665

SCI events available to the Commission and SCI entities’ members and participants, and that the
greater availability of this information has some potential to increase litigation risks for SCI
entities, including the risk of private civil litigation. Commenters did not provide estimates of
potential litigation costs and Commission staff were unable to find readily-available public
information from which to estimate specific costs of possible litigation associated with the
increased information available about SCI events, but based on staff experience, depending on
the complexity, scope, and length of the litigation, the costs to defend an individual case could be
quite significant. The Commission notes, however, that it is not clear that the incremental
increase in costs due to Regulation SCI will be significant in the aggregate. Regulation SCI does
not alter the elements of any available private cause of action, and the elements of such actions
are likely to limit the potential for recovery. Moreover, to the extent members and participants
suffer damages when SCI events occur, SCI entities are already subject to litigation risk.
As an alternative to the adopted rule, some commenters suggested that non-material
systems intrusions not be reported to the Commission at all, and only be recorded by the SCI
entity to reduce the instances in which notice of systems intrusions would be required. 2004 The
Commission continues to believe that reporting intrusions in SCI systems and indirect SCI
systems will help the Commission and its staff to detect patterns or understand trends over time
and the nature of systems intrusions that may be occurring at multiple SCI entities and, thus, help
ensure effective Commission oversight. As discussed in Section IV.B.3.c in detail, to reduce the
burden associated with the Commission notification requirement, the Commission established
separate reporting requirements (e.g., quarterly reporting) for de minimis systems disruptions and

2004

See Omgeo Letter at 12; and DTCC Letter at 8.

666

de minimis systems intrusions and provided an exception from the Commission reporting
requirement for de minimis systems compliance issues.
iv.

Information Dissemination – Rule 1002(c)

Rule 1002(c) requires an SCI entity to disseminate information regarding certain major
SCI events to all of its members or participants and certain other SCI events to affected members
or participants. Specifically, promptly after any responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable
basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred, an SCI entity is required to disseminate certain
information regarding the SCI event. When certain additional information becomes known, the
SCI entity is required to promptly disseminate such information. Until the SCI event is resolved,
the SCI entity is required to provide regular updates on the required information. 2005 As adopted,
the information dissemination requirement does not apply to SCI events to the extent they relate
to market regulation or market surveillance systems and de minimis SCI events. Rule 1002(c)
imposes new requirements that are not currently part of the ARP Inspection Program. However,
some entities currently provide their members or participants and, in some cases, market
participants or the public more generally, with notices of systems issues.
As discussed in Section IV.B.3.d, a major SCI event is defined to mean an SCI event that
has any impact on a critical SCI system or a significant impact on the SCI entity’s operations or
on market participants. The Commission believes that, in the context of a major SCI event,
where the impact of the SCI event is most likely to be felt by many market participants, the goal

2005

Rule 1002(c)(2) provides an exception to the information dissemination requirement for
systems intrusions when an SCI entity determines that dissemination of information
would likely compromise the security of the SCI entity’s systems, or an investigation of
the systems intrusion, and documents the reasons for such determination.

667

of aiding market participants in evaluating the impact of the event would be efficiently served by
dissemination of information to all members or participants of the SCI entity. 2006
The Commission believes that Rule 1002(c) will help market participants—specifically
the members or participants of SCI entities estimated to be affected by an SCI event and any
additional members or participants subsequently estimated to be affected by an SCI event and, in
some cases, all members or participants of an SCI entity—to better evaluate the operations of
SCI entities by requiring certain information to be disclosed. Furthermore, increased awareness
of SCI events through information disseminated to members or participants should provide SCI
entities additional incentives to maintain robust systems and minimize the occurrence of SCI
events. More robust SCI systems and the reduction in the occurrence of SCI events could reduce
interruptions in price discovery process and liquidity flows as discussed above in Section VI.C.1.
One commenter provided information about the benefits of the proposed information
dissemination requirements. Specifically, according to this commenter, one of the major benefits
of Regulation SCI could be better sharing of information about technology problems. 2007
According to this commenter, sharing information about hardware failures, systems intrusions,
and software glitches will alert others in the industry about such problems and help reduce
system-wide costs of diagnosing problems, as well as result in improved responses to technology

2006

At the same time, the Commission recognizes that some SCI events that meet the
definition of “major SCI event” could also qualify as de minimis SCI events. Like other
de minimis SCI events, they are excepted from the information dissemination
requirement. In particular, because major SCI events are a subset of SCI events, the
exception under Rule 1002(c)(4)(ii) applies to major SCI events that meet the
requirements of that rule.

2007

See Angel Letter at 5.

668

problems. 2008 This commenter also believed that the information will serve as warnings to other
SCI entities to stay vigilant to prevent similar problems. 2009 The Commission believes that
benefits identified by the commenter could be benefits of Rule 1002(c).
As discussed above, while some entities currently provide their members or participants
and, in some cases, market participants or the public more generally, with notices of certain
systems issues (e.g., system outages), Rule 1002(c) imposes new requirements that are not
currently part of the ARP Inspection Program. As such, the requirements of Rule 1002(c) will
impose costs—which are attributed to paperwork burdens—on SCI entities with respect to
preparing, drafting, reviewing, and making the information available to members or participants.
These costs are discussed in more detail in Section V.D.2.b. 2010
In the SCI Proposal, the Commission recognized that SCI entities incur costs to
determine whether an event needs to be disseminated. While the SCI events subject to the
adopted information dissemination requirements are different from those that would have been
subject to the proposed requirements, the Commission continues to recognize that the
determination imposes costs. Specifically, identifying major SCI events may impose one-time
implementation costs on SCI entities associated with developing a process for ensuring that they

2008

See id.

2009

See id. However, this commenter also disagreed with the Commission that SCI entities
may be reluctant to admit publicly to their glitches. See id. at 14. According to this
commenter, market participants interact repeatedly with each other on a real-time basis
and are acutely aware of glitches when they occur. See id.

2010

When monetized, the paperwork burden would result in approximately $26 million, in
addition to approximately $1.6 million in outsourcing cost, annually for all SCI entities in
the aggregate.

669

are able to quickly and correctly make such determinations, as well as periodic costs in
reviewing the adopted process. These costs are discussed in more detail in Section V.D.3.b. 2011
One commenter expressed concern that SCI entities may over-report issues out of an
abundance of caution if SCI entities are not given clear guidelines as to what and to whom they
are required to provide information. 2012 This commenter believed that a flood of notifications,
taken out of context, may create investor impression based on the quantity, not the quality, of the
notifications disseminated, that certain counterparties pose serious risks to the market, when that
is not the case. 2013 For the reasons discussed in Section IV.B.3.d, the Commission believes that
information about SCI events (other than major SCI events and de minimis SCI events) should
be disseminated to affected members or participants, and information about major SCI events
(other than those that qualify as de minimis SCI events) should be disseminated to all members
or participants of an SCI entity. At the same time, as compared to proposed Rule 1000(b)(5), the
Commission is limiting the requirement for information dissemination to all members or
participants of an SCI entity to major SCI events; limiting other information dissemination to
members or participants affected by the SCI event; and excluding de minimis SCI events and
SCI events related to market regulation or market surveillance systems from the information
dissemination requirement. These changes would limit the compliance cost for Rule 1002(c),
and are responsive to the commenter’s concern that SCI entities may over-disclose systems
issues.

2011

See also supra note 2001.

2012

See Fidelity Letter at 5.

2013

See id.

670

As an alternative to the adopted rule, one commenter suggested broadening the proposed
rule to require an SCI entity to disseminate information on SCI events to the public, and not just
to its members or participants. 2014 This commenter believed that public dissemination of the
facts of an SCI event would help enhance investor confidence by preventing speculation and
misinformation, and would provide important learning opportunities for the industry and other
SCI entities. 2015 The Commission acknowledges that there can be additional benefits from
disseminating major SCI events to the public as noted by the commenter. Under the adopted
rule, an SCI entity is required to disseminate information on major SCI events (other than those
that qualify as de minimis SCI events) to all of its members and participants. The Commission
believes that these market participants are the most likely to act on this information and, thus,
induce additional competitive incentives for SCI entities to avoid systems issues. As such, the
Commission believes that it can achieve the purposes of the rule without requiring public
dissemination, and also believes any additional gain in benefits from public dissemination would
be minimal.
v.

Material Systems Changes – Rule 1003(a)

Rule 1003(a)(1) requires an SCI entity to provide quarterly reports to the Commission,
describing completed, ongoing, and planned material systems changes to its SCI systems and the
security of indirect SCI systems, during the prior, current, and subsequent calendar quarters.
Rule 1003(a)(1) also requires an SCI entity to establish reasonable written criteria for identifying
a change to its SCI systems and the security of its indirect SCI systems as material. Rule

2014

See MFA Letter at 7.

2015

See id.

671

1003(a)(2) requires an SCI entity to promptly submit a supplemental report to notify the
Commission of a material error in or material omission from a previously submitted report.
Entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program currently provide some material
systems change notifications to the Commission and the Commission believes that all SCI
entities have some internal processes for documenting systems changes as a matter of prudent
business practice. For example, consistent with the ARP Policy Statements, certain entities
provide annual reports on significant systems changes and notify the Commission on an asneeded basis regarding certain significant systems changes. In addition, ATSs are required
notify the Commission of certain systems changes pursuant to Rule 301(b)(2)(ii) and Rule
301(b)(6)(ii)(G) of Regulation ATS, as applicable. Rule 1003(a) changes some of the current
practices and sets forth more detailed requirements for these notifications. For example, Rule
1003(a) covers material changes on a broader set of systems than the ARP Inspection Program or
Regulation ATS. Rule 1003(a) also requires an SCI entity to submit quarterly reports on Form
SCI regarding material systems changes, but does not require separate notification for each
material systems change. Further, Rule 1003(a) requires an SCI entity to promptly notify the
Commission (by submitting Form SCI) of a material error in or material omission from a
previously submitted report. To the extent that Rule 1003(a) requires SCI entities to notify the
Commission of material systems changes for more types of systems and to the extent that it
requires notification at a higher frequency than current practice (quarterly reports vs. annual
reports), the Commission believes that Rule 1003(a) should enhance the Commission’s oversight
of the operation of SCI entities.
The compliance costs of Rule 1003(a) primarily entail costs associated with preparing
and submitting Form SCI in accordance with the instructions thereto. The initial and ongoing

672

cost estimates associated with preparing and submitting Form SCI with regard to material
systems changes under Rules 1003(a)(1) and (2) are discussed in detail in Section V.D.2.c. 2016
The Commission does not expect Rule 1003(a) will impose significant costs on SCI entities other
than those discussed in Section V.D.2.c.
According to one commenter, “[t]he larger market participants [that will be subject to
Regulation SCI] are generally experienced and circumspect with regards to significant
infrastructure changes, such as data center migrations and major platform upgrades.” 2017 This
commenter expected that, for these larger entities, integrating Regulation SCI compliance into
their existing programs can occur without crippling disruption or exorbitant cost, and expected
that insight from the implementation of Regulation SCI would contribute to overall stability and
resiliency of the markets over time. 2018 However, this commenter expressed concern that
compliance with the Commission notification requirement will result in incremental costs that
may in some cases delay or discourage innovation. 2019 Another commenter similarly expressed
concern about the compliance burden and the resulting impact on competition and innovation
associated with the 30-day advance Commission notification requirement for material systems
changes. 2020 In addition, one commenter noted that the Commission underestimated the cost of
lost business opportunities and the inability to swiftly deploy corrective solutions that would

2016

When monetized, the paperwork burden would result in approximately $6.8 million
annually for all SCI entities in the aggregate.

2017

See SunGard Letter at 3.

2018

See id.

2019

See id..

2020

See BATS Letter at 15. See also, e.g., supra notes 999-1000 (discussing the views of
commenters that the proposed 30-day advance notification requirement would stifle
innovation and interfere with an SCI entity’s natural planning and development process).

673

result from the 30-day advance systems change notification requirements. 2021 This commenter
noted that most ATS operators with advanced systems purposefully implement frequent agile
modifications instead of major episodic changes in order to continuously improve their systems
and minimize the impact of the changes. 2022 This commenter expressed concern that a built-in
30-day delay in implementing changes would encourage the deployment of larger, riskier
changes more infrequently, thereby creating longer periods of time during which a systems issue
and/or erroneous configuration would continue without correction. 2023 This commenter also
stated that the 30-day advance notification process has the potential to delay the deployment of
corrective solutions that are necessary to ensure the provision of uninterrupted and efficient order
matching services at the best available prices. 2024
As noted above, as adopted, Regulation SCI does not include the proposed 30-day
advance Commission notification requirement for material systems changes. Rather, Rule
1003(a)(1) requires quarterly reports of material systems changes. Elimination of the proposed
30-day advance Commission notification requirement addresses the concern of some
commenters that the rule would impede agile development methodology and favor the waterfall
development methodology, or delay the implementation of systems changes or innovations,
particularly for smaller SCI entities. The quarterly reports will also provide the Commission and
its staff with a more efficient framework to review material systems changes, because including
all relevant material systems changes in a single report will allow the Commission to more easily

2021

See ITG Letter at 8.

2022

See id.

2023

See id.

2024

See id.

674

and clearly understand an SCI entity’s framework for systems changes, including how certain
material systems changes are related. 2025
vi.

SCI Review – Rule 1003(b)

Rule 1003(b) requires an SCI entity to conduct an SCI review of its compliance with
Regulation SCI not less than once each year, 2026 and submit a report of the SCI review to senior
management of the SCI entity for review no more than 30 calendar days after completion of such
SCI review. Rule 1003(b) also requires an SCI entity to submit a report of the SCI review to the
Commission and to the board of directors of the SCI entity or the equivalent of such board,
together with any response by senior management, within 60 calendar days after its submission
to senior management of the SCI entity.
Systems reviews have been part of the ARP Inspection Program, and through this
program, the Commission understands that many SCI entities currently undertake annual systems
reviews and that senior management and/or the board of directors or a committee thereof reviews
reports of such reviews. However, the Commission believes that the scope of the systems
reviews, and the level of senior management and/or board involvement in such reviews, varies
among ARP entities. The Commission expects that the SCI review requirement would produce

2025

As discussed above, Commission staff will not use material systems change reports to
require any approval of planned systems changes in advance of their implementation
pursuant to any provision of Regulation SCI, or to delay implementation of material
systems changes pursuant to any provision of Regulation SCI. See supra Section
IV.B.4.b.

2026

However, penetration test reviews of the network, firewalls, and production systems are
required to be conducted not less than once every three years. See Rule 1003(b)(i).
Assessments of SCI systems directly supporting market regulation or market surveillance
are required to be conducted at a frequency based upon the risk assessment conducted as
part of the SCI review, but also not less than once every three years. See Rule
1003(b)(1)(ii).

675

greater consistency in the approach that SCI entities take in systems reviews, which would help
improve the efficiency of the Commission’s oversight (e.g., inspection) of SCI entities’ systems.
In addition, the Commission believes that the SCI review requirement would result in SCI
entities having an improved awareness of the relative strengths and weaknesses of their systems
independent of the assessment of Commission staff, which should, in turn, improve systems and
reduce the number of SCI events. As discussed in Section VI.C.1, the reduction in occurrence of
SCI events could reduce interruptions in the price discovery process and liquidity flows.
The initial and ongoing paperwork burden associated with conducting an SCI review,
submitting a report of the SCI review to senior management of the SCI entity for review, and
submitting a report of the SCI review and any response by senior management to the
Commission and to the board of directors of the SCI entity or the equivalent of such board is
discussed in Section V.D.2.d. 2027 SCI entities will also incur costs in addition to the paperwork
burden to comply with the SCI review requirement. Although the Commission understands that
most SCI entities currently undertake annual systems reviews, Rule 1003(b) sets forth specific
requirements related to the SCI review. In particular, an SCI review is required to include a risk
assessment with respect to SCI systems and indirect SCI systems of an SCI entity, an assessment
of internal control design and effectiveness of SCI systems and indirect SCI systems, and
penetration testing reviews. Moreover, Rule 1003(b) specifies that the SCI review is to
determine the SCI entity’s compliance with Regulation SCI. Rule 1003(b) also requires a report
of the SCI review and any senior management response to be submitted to the board of directors
of the SCI entity or the equivalent of such board and thus SCI entities may incur an additional
2027

When monetized, the paperwork burden would result in approximately $9.7 million, in
addition to approximately $2.2 million in outsourcing cost, annually for all SCI entities in
the aggregate.

676

cost as a result of additional time the board allocates to evaluate the review. The Commission
cannot estimate costs other than paperwork burdens because the Commission does not have the
information necessary to provide a reasonable estimate. In particular, the Commission lacks
information on how SCI entities will structure their reviews.
As discussed above in Section IV.B.5, the Commission is not adopting a requirement that
SCI reviews be conducted by an independent third party because the Commission believes that
the goals of Regulation SCI can be achieved through reviews by either internal objective
personnel or external objective personnel. The Commission acknowledges that, in some cases,
there could be potential benefits from requiring third party reviews. However, as noted in
Section IV.B.5, third parties can also have conflicts of interest that prevent a particular entity or
personnel from meeting the objectivity standard required for an SCI review. In addition, during
the Technology Roundtable in which participants discussed third party review, some panelists
suggested that the use of an external third party is unnecessary because, for example, the training
for a third party as well as the costs involved with third party evaluations would be large with
little additional benefit. 2028 The Commission agrees that SCI entities would likely need to
provide significant guidance to third-party reviewers on the specific features of the entity’s
systems. The Commission recognizes that a third-party review requirement could impose
additional costs on SCI entities, and believes that it is appropriate at this time to allow SCI
entities to decide whether to incur such costs instead of mandating third-party review.
vii.

2028

Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery Plan
Testing – Rule 1004

See Transcript of the Technology Roundtable, at 86-91.

677

Rule 1004(b) requires the testing of an SCI entity’s business continuity and disaster
recovery plans at least once every 12 months. Rules 1004(a) and (b) require participation in such
testing by those members or participants that an SCI entity reasonably determines are, taken as a
whole, the minimum number necessary for the maintenance of fair and orderly markets in the
event of the activation of its business continuity and disaster recovery plans. Rule 1004(c)
requires an SCI entity to coordinate such testing on an industry- or sector-wide basis with other
SCI entities.
The requirements under Rule 1004 are not a part of the ARP Inspection Program. As
discussed above in Section VI.B.2, the securities industry generally has a voluntary system for
testing business continuity and disaster recovery plans and market participants, including
exchanges, members of exchanges, clearing agencies, clearing members, and ATSs, already
coordinate certain business continuity and disaster recovery plan testing to some extent. For
example, some SCI entities already require some of their members or participants to connect to
their backup systems. Further, although participation is not always mandatory, some SCI entities
already provide their members or participants with the opportunity to test the SCI entity’s
business continuity and disaster recovery plans. However, because not all SCI entities require
member or participant participation in business continuity and disaster recovery plans testing, the
Commission understands that not all market participants participate in such testing. Moreover,
the Commission understands that, to the extent such participation occurs, it may in many cases
be limited in nature (e.g., testing for connectivity to backup systems). 2029
The Commission believes that, for SCI entities, voluntary testing is insufficient, and that
business continuity and disaster recovery planning for market centers and certain members or
2029

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18164.

678

participants must be an integral component of business continuity and disaster recovery
preparedness. The Commission further believes that the requirements under Rule 1004 should
help ensure that the securities markets will have improved backup infrastructure and fewer
market-wide shutdowns. As discussed in detail in Section VI.C.1, fewer market-wide shutdowns
should help facilitate continuous liquidity flows in markets, reduce pricing errors, and thus
improve the quality of the price discovery process.
With respect to these benefits, one commenter suggested measuring benefits of reducing
outages and technical issues by looking at, for example, loss of trading commissions due to
outages. 2030 This commenter estimated that the potential loss of equity commissions by brokerdealers over the two-day market closure from Superstorm Sandy may have been approximately
$374 million.2031 The Commission believes that measuring potential benefits in terms of

2030

See Angel Letter at 15-16. The Commission also notes that this commenter and others
expressed the view that enhanced BC/DR testing would have substantial benefits. See,
e.g., id. at 9-10 (stating that the “ability of SROs to require their members to participate
in testing is an important step forward in making sure that testing is as realistic as
possible... [and] is one of the most valuable parts of Regulation SCI and will do the most
to ensure improved market network reliability”); and UBS Letter at 5 (stating that the
“critical task of BCP testing should not be undertaken in isolated silos by individual
firms. Individual BCP testing that does not involve realistic scenarios with connected
participants may mask gaps and/or be insufficient from a systems integrity standpoint”
and that the benefits of a “new and more comprehensive BCP testing paradigm” would be
“broad and considerable”).

2031

This commenter based this estimate on FINRA member equity commissions in 2010
obtained from SIFMA. See Angel Letter at 16. In addition, this commenter referred to
the losses and legal and administrative costs associated with the Facebook IPO, as well as
the losses associated with the May 6, 2010 incident. See id. at 15-16. This commenter
also more generally stated that the benefits of reducing outages and major technical
issues are pretty straightforward – catastrophic failures in exchange systems are
extremely costly, both in terms of direct losses to participants and in reduced investor
confidence in the markets. See id. at 15. According to this commenter, even a modest
reduction in the overall risk of a meltdown is quite cost effective to the economy as a
whole. See id.

679

transaction costs (commission revenue) does not fully account for other benefits, such as
uninterrupted liquidity flows and price discovery. 2032 Furthermore, the Commission believes
that the estimated commission loss noted by the commenter likely overstates the actual losses in
commissions because some of the “lost” trading may have only been delayed until the markets
re-opened after Superstorm Sandy. Accordingly, the Commission is not persuaded that the
estimate provided by the commenter represents the quantified benefit associated with this
component of Regulation SCI. The Commission is unable to estimate the benefit of this
component of Regulation SCI because the Commission does not have quantified information on
the extent that a reduction in SCI events will help facilitate liquidity flows in markets, reduce
pricing errors, and thus improve the quality of the price discovery process. Furthermore, the
Commission is unable to quantify the impact of “delayed” trading because it lacks the
information necessary to provide a reasonable estimate. In particular, data on the trading activity
lost as opposed to “delayed” due to the two-day market closure would be extremely difficult to
piece together in a meaningful way.
Costs to SCI Entities
The mandatory testing of SCI entity business continuity and disaster recovery plans,
including backup systems, as required under Rule 1004, will result in additional costs to SCI
entities. The Commission notes that some SCI entities already offer availability for their
members or participants to test business continuity and disaster recovery plans. Furthermore, as
mentioned above, market participants, including SCI entities, already coordinate certain business
continuity plan testing to an extent. However, Rule 1004 mandates participation in testing for
2032

As noted by this commenter, the $374 million loss does not include lost trading profits to
investors, or loss of utility from being able to hedge risk, monetize holdings, or otherwise
trade. See id. at 16.

680

some entities that do not currently participate, requires more rigorous testing than currently
required, and requires greater coordination than SCI entities and market participants currently
engage in. In particular, Rule 1004 requires SCI entities to designate their members or
participants to participate in business continuity and disaster recovery plan testing and to
coordinate such testing with other SCI entities on an industry- or sector-wide basis. The
requirement of member or participant designation in business continuity and disaster recovery
plan testing under Rule 1004 imposes additional costs as an SCI would have to allocate resources
towards initially establishing and later updating standards for the designation of its members and
participants for testing. Furthermore, the requirement to coordinate industry- or sector-wide
testing will impose additional administrative costs because an SCI entity would be required to
notify its members or participants and also organize, schedule, and manage the coordinated
testing. 2033
Some commenters stated that the scope of the proposed testing requirement would
impose costs on SCI entities that the Commission did not account for, including the cost to
reconfigure their systems to engage in functional and performance testing, the cost of
establishing effective coordinated test scripts for the testing, and time necessary to conduct the
required testing. 2034 Another commenter stated that testing will be costly to ATSs and their
subscribers, and that the aggregate cost for all would be higher than the $66 million estimated in

2033

Administrative costs associated with coordinating testing are included as part of the PRA
burden of Rule 1004. See supra Section V.D.1.b. As discussed in Section V.D.1.b, the
Commission continues to believe that plan processors will outsource the work related to
compliance with Rule 1004.

2034

See supra Section IV.B.6.b (discussing comments on proposed Rule 1000(b)(9)).

681

the SCI Proposal. 2035 This commenter noted that the cost includes the time, resources, and
professional staff that would be devoted to the testing process, and the resulting lost business
opportunities associated with the ability to focus on revenue generating projects. 2036 In addition,
this commenter stated that, while connectivity between an ATS and its subscribers may already
be established, additional configurations and build out of systems may be required to create a
testing environment that simulates live market conditions. 2037
Another commenter stated that there are dozens of man-days of pre-test planning,
preparation, pre-testing testing, testing, and post-mortem reviews for SCI entities associated with
the industry test initiatives. 2038 According to this commenter, there are anywhere from tens to
hundreds of business and technology staff engaged in this initiative. 2039 This commenter
estimated the following staff levels required to support testing: exchanges – 175-200+ mandays; member firms – 80-85 man-days; and ATSs – 12-25 man-days. 2040 Based on the
commenter’s upper estimates measured in man-days, the Commission estimated monetary values
by allocating hours among the traders, technologists, programmers/system administrators,
exchange personnel, and analysts necessary for implementation of disaster recovery testing. This
estimation yields implied annual average total cost estimates of $500,000 and $60,000 for

2035

See ITG Letter at 15-16.

2036

See id.

2037

See id.

2038

See Tellefsen Letter at 11.

2039

See id.

2040

See id.

682

exchanges and ATSs, respectively. 2041 For the reasons discussed below, the Commission
believes that this commenter’s cost estimate does not accurately reflect the costs to SCI entities.
The Commission recognizes that the factors described by commenters will contribute to
costs for SCI entities associated with business continuity and disaster recovery plans testing. For
example, as discussed in Section IV.B.6.b, the Commission acknowledges that systems
reconfiguration for functional and performance testing and establishing an effective coordinated
test script could be a complex process and result in costs. At the same time, the Commission
believes that systems reconfiguration and the establishment of an effective coordinated test script
is an important first step in establishing robust and effective business continuity and disaster
continuity plans testing. The Commission also notes that costs of Rule 1004 are likely to be
lower than those estimated by commenters because of changes made to the proposed rule. For
example, although Rule 1004 would require testing of BC/DR plans that is more rigorous than
some types of testing urged by some commenters, the adopted rule includes a more targeted
member and participant designation provision than the proposed rule. As discussed above in
2041

The allocations are based on Commission staff experience that exchanges would divide
their personnel as 85% technologists, 5% exchange rule enforcement personnel, and 10%
business analysts, and ATSs are assumed to divide their personnel as 90% technologists
and 10% business analysts based on staff experience. The hourly rates are from
SIFMA’s Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry 2012,
modified by Commission staff to account for an 1800-hour work-year and multiplied by
5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead. The calculation
for ATSs was as follows: 25 days × (10% time required by analysts × $245/hour + 90%
time required by technologists × $282/hour) = $55,660 per ATS. For each exchange:
200 days × (85% time required by technologists × $282/hour + 10% time required by
analysts × $245/hour + 5% time required by supervisors × $446/hour) = $458,400 per
exchange. The Commission has rounded up because the breakdown between analysts,
supervisors, and technologists may vary between ATSs and Exchanges.
In the absence of a specific estimate provided by the commenter for plan processors or
clearing agencies, the estimate for exchanges is assumed to apply to these types of SCI
entities. Estimates for members and participants are discussed separately below.

683

Section IV.B.6.b, compared to proposed Rule 1000(b)(9), the Commission believes that the
adoption of a more targeted designation requirement is likely to result in a smaller number of
SCI entity members or participants being designated to participate in business continuity and
disaster recovery plans testing and thus should result in lower costs for SCI entities to coordinate
testing. 2042
The Commission is unable to provide a quantified estimate of the specific costs for SCI
entities associated with the mandatory testing of SCI entity business continuity and disaster
recovery plans, including backup systems. Although several commenters provided general
estimates as to the costs of compliance with Rule 1004, these commenters did not provide their
assumptions or a description of the quantified costs associated with each potential source of
costs. Given the lack of information provided by commenters and that these costs could vary
significantly based on the specific systems of each SCI entity, the Commission is unable to
determine whether the costs provided by commenters are representative. Additionally, the
Commission notes that commenters appeared to focus on costs as if assuming there is no testing
today. Because SCI entities currently engage in some coordinated BC/DR testing, the
Commission believes that the average incremental cost to SCI entities, in addition to the burden
estimated in the PRA, would be lower than these commenters’ cost estimates. The Commission
also believes that costs would be significantly lower in the year following the initial year of
testing. Because the Commission does not have detailed information regarding the current level
of BC/DR testing and coordination of such testing by each SCI entity, and the cost associated

2042

See supra Section IV.B.6.b (discussing the designation requirement in adopted Rule
1004).

684

with such testing and coordination, however, the Commission cannot at this time provide a
quantified estimate of the cost for SCI entities to comply with Rule 1004.
Costs to SCI Entity Members and Participants
The Commission believes that Rule 1004 will also impose costs on SCI entity designated
members and participants. In the SCI Proposal, based on discussions with market participants,
the Commission estimated that the cost of business continuity and disaster recovery plan testing
would range from immaterial administrative costs (for SCI entity members and participants that
currently maintain connections to SCI entity backup systems) to a range of $24,000 to $60,000
per year per member or participant in connection with each SCI entity. 2043 As noted in the SCI
Proposal and also above, the Commission understood that most of the larger members or
participants of SCI entities already maintain connectivity with the backup systems of SCI entities
and, thus, the additional connectivity costs imposed by proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) to these larger
members or participants may be minimal. 2044 However, among smaller members or participants
of SCI entities, the number of members or participants who maintain such connectivity is
lower. 2045 Therefore, costs at the higher end of the estimated range would accrue for members or
participants who would need to invest in additional infrastructure and to maintain connectivity
with an SCI entity’s backup systems in order to participate in testing.
Furthermore, in the SCI Proposal, the Commission acknowledged that it is difficult to
provide an estimate for the total aggregate cost to SCI entity members or participants under

2043

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18172.

2044

See id. at 18172 and n. 642.

2045

See id. at 18172.

685

proposed Rule 1000(b)(9). 2046 Because each SCI entity had discretion in determining its
standards for designating members or participants for the testing required by proposed Rule
1000(b)(9)(i), the Commission did not have enough information to estimate the number of
members or participants at each SCI entity that would be designated as required to participate in
testing and to determine whether such designated members or participants are those that already
maintain connections to SCI entity backup systems. With limited information, the Commission
provided a total aggregate annual cost estimate in the SCI Proposal of approximately $66 million
for designated members and participants to participate in business continuity and disaster
recovery plans testing. 2047
Several commenters stated that the Commission underestimated the cost of business
continuity and disaster recovery plan testing under proposed Rule 1000(b)(9). One commenter
noted that the Commission failed to take into account those SCI entities that engage in systemsspecific testing upon implementation or initial connection by a market participant, but do not
engage in business continuity and disaster recovery testing with the participation of market
participants. 2048 One commenter noted that the average cost for a broker-dealer to maintain fully
redundant systems at all relevant exchange backup facilities would be approximately $3 million
annually, according to one of its informal surveys. 2049 Further, this cost would not include the

2046

See id.

2047

See id. at 18172 and n.643.

2048

See MSRB Letter at 38.

2049

See FIA PTG Letter at 3. See also BIDS Letter at 8 (commenting that testing and backup
connections are expensive, and the expense of the connections could outweigh the value
or the utilization of the value that certain venues provide).

686

initial capital costs related to the infrastructure or the labor/employment necessary for the
maintenance and monitoring of backup connection and facilities. 2050
Other commenters stated that the Commission underestimated other aspects of the cost of
business continuity and disaster recovery plan testing under proposed Rule 1000(b)(9). One
commenter believed that the requirement for members to connect to an SCI entity’s backup site
could pose significant economic burden and provide little benefit to the market. 2051 This
commenter believed that the cost of such connections would be well over the $10,000 per
connection that the Commission estimated. 2052 According to this commenter, establishing and
maintaining a connection with comparable trading capability and latency could cost a brokerdealer that co-locates at an SCI entity’s data center between $15,000 and $20,000 monthly
simply for the necessary communication lines. 2053 In addition, this commenter noted that such
members would need additional hardware (estimated to be up to $500,000) to establish an
appropriate presence at the backup site to ensure that they could trade in an efficient manner with
low latency. 2054 This commenter believed that compliance with the Rule 1000(b)(9)
requirements could cause broker-dealers to reduce the number of SCI entities through which they

2050

See FIA PTG Letter at 3. This commenter noted that the costs vary widely among
members and exchanges but are not insubstantial. See id.

2051

See ISE Letter at 9.

2052

See id.

2053

See id.

2054

See id.

687

trade. 2055 This commenter suggested that the standard for designating members should be those
members “critical to the operation of the SCI entity.” 2056
Another commenter estimated that the costs to a market making firm to support fully
redundant exchange and ATS backup facilities would be approximately $7 million to $10 million
in initial capital, with annual costs of between $5 million and $9 million. 2057 According to this
commenter, this cost is not justified by the benefits because backup facilities would not be used
in the event of an outage at the primary site, 2058 and would lead firms to reconsider their ability
to make markets on as many trading platforms and potentially reduce price competition. 2059
The same commenter who provided an estimate of burdens for SCI entities expressed the
view that there are also dozens of man-days of pre-test planning, preparation, pre-testing testing,
testing, and post-mortem reviews for members and participants that would be associated with
industry test initiatives. 2060 Based on the commenter’s upper estimates for member firms,
measured in man-days, the Commission assigned monetary values using appropriate hours
allocation among the traders, technologists, programmers/system administrators, exchange
2055

See id.

2056

See id. According to this commenter, under the suggested standard, its focus would be
on its seven Primary Market Makers who provide continuous liquidity, and these
members would provide a baseline of liquidity for trading. See id. However, this
commenter believed that, in order to satisfy the standard to provide “fair and orderly
trading,” it may need to require some or all of its 145 Electronic Access Members who
access liquidity. See id.

2057

See KCG Letter at 4, 12. This commenter stated that the cost of supporting a backup
facility of an SCI entity would be reduced, if the backup facility of an SCI entity were at
the primary site of another SCI entity where the market maker traded. See id. at 12.

2058

See id. at 4.

2059

See id. at 12.

2060

See also supra note 2038 and accompanying text (discussing this commenter’s cost
estimate for SCI entities).

688

personnel, and analysts necessary for implementation of disaster recovery testing. This
procedure yields an annual average total cost estimate of about $200,000 for each member
firm. 2061 For the reasons discussed below, the Commission believes that this commenter’s cost
estimate does not accurately reflect the costs to members or participants.
The Commission acknowledges that members or participants will incur costs as a result
of Rule 1004. However, the Commission believes that the members or participants likely to be
designated to participate in such testing are those that conduct a high level of activity with the
SCI entity, or that play an important role for the SCI entity (such as market makers), and who are
more likely to have already established connections to the SCI entity’s backup site. The
Commission believes that many of these members or participants already have established
connectivity with the SCI entity’s backup site and already monitor and maintain such
connectivity, and thus the additional connectivity costs imposed by Rule 1004 would be modest
to these members or participants.
For members or participants that currently do not have connectivity, the Commission
recognizes the requirements of Rule 1004 will impose costs on members or participants in
establishing, maintaining, and monitoring backup connection and facilities. The Commission
believes that a few commenters who stated that the Commission underestimated these costs may
have based their cost estimates for proposed Rule 1000(b)(9) on the assumption that member
2061

The allocations are based on the staff experience that member firms divide their
personnel as 45% traders, 45% technologists, and 10% business analysts. The hourly
rates are from SIFMA’s Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities Industry
2012, modified by Commission staff to account for an 1800-hour work-year and
multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits and overhead.
The calculation for member firms was as follows: 85 days × (10% time required by
analysts × $245/hour + 45% time required by technologists × $282/hour + 45% time
required by traders × $312/hour) = $198,424 per member firm.

689

connections to SCI entities’ backup systems need to be the same as those at the primary site. 2062
However, as discussed above in Section IV.B.6, Rule 1004 does not require SCI entity members
or participants to maintain the same level of connectivity with the backup sites of an SCI entity
as they do with the primary sites. In the event of a wide-scale disruption in the securities
markets, the Commission acknowledges that an SCI entity and its members or participants may
not be able to provide the same level of liquidity as on a normal trading day. In addition, the
Commission recognizes that the concept of “fair and orderly markets” does not require that
trading on a day when business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in effect reflect the
same level of liquidity, depth, volatility, and other characteristics of trading on a normal trading
day.
The Commission, however, is unable to provide a quantified estimate of the specific costs
for SCI entity members or participants associated with the mandatory testing required by Rule
1004. Although several commenters provided general estimates as to the costs of compliance
with Rule 1004, these commenters did not provide their assumptions or a description of the
quantified costs associated with each potential source of costs. Given the lack of information
provided by commenters and that these costs could vary significantly based on the specific
systems of each SCI entity and member or participant, the Commission is unable to determine
whether the costs provided by commenters are representative. Additionally, the Commission
notes that some commenters appeared to focus on costs as if assuming there is no testing today.
Because some members and participants of SCI entities currently participate in SCI entities’
BC/DR testing, these members and participants would not incur the full costs estimated by the
2062

See supra notes 2049, 2050, 2052-2054, and 2057 and accompanying text (discussing
commenters’ estimates of the cost to maintain fully redundant systems at relevant SCI
entity backup facilities).

690

commenters. Thus the Commission believes that the average incremental cost to members or
participants would be lower than these commenter’s estimates because the estimates do not
account for current practices. The Commission also believes that costs will be highly variable
among member firms, and will be significantly lower in the year following the initial year of
testing. Because the Commission does not have detailed information regarding the current level
of engagement by members or participants in BC/DR testing and the associated costs, or the
details of the BC/DR testing that SCI entities will implement pursuant to Rule 1004, the
Commission cannot at this time provide a precise quantified estimate of the cost for SCI entities’
designated members or participants to comply with Rule 1004. 2063 The Commission also notes
that it is critical that SCI entities and their designated members or participants be able to operate
with the SCI entities’ backup systems in the event of a wide-scale disruption, and believes that
the costs that would be incurred by essential market participants are appropriate in light of the
benefits discussed above. 2064

2063

Although the Commission cannot at this time precisely estimate the total cost of
compliance with Rule 1004, the Commission believes that $10,000 on average per SCI
entity is a reasonable estimate solely for the incremental cost of connectivity associated
with the requirements of Rule 1004. As noted above, the Commission continues to
believe that it is reasonable to estimate that the members or participants of SCI entities
that are most likely to be designated as required to participate in testing are those that
conduct a high level of activity with the SCI entity, or that play an important role for the
SCI entity (such as market makers), and that such members or participants are likely to
already maintain connectivity with an SCI entity’s backup systems. Therefore, the
Commission is not persuaded that its estimate of the average connectivity cost for each
member or participant of an SCI entity should be modified from $10,000.

2064

Further, in response to comment that the added benefit of requiring fully redundant
backup systems is almost impossible to measure while the cost of implementation is
significant, the Commission acknowledges that testing of a BC/DR plan does not
guarantee flawless execution of that plan, but still believes testing is warranted because a
tested plan is likely to be more reliable and effective than an inadequately tested plan.

691

Although the Commission generally believes that the aggregate cost to SCI entity
members or participants under Rule 1004 will be lower than the cost estimated for proposed Rule
1000(b)(9), the Commission continues to believe it is difficult to provide an estimate for the
aggregate cost to SCI entity members or participants because under Rule 1004, each SCI entity
has reasonable discretion in designating its members or participants for the required testing, and,
as noted above, the Commission does not possess necessary information to estimate the number
of designated members or participants and to determine whether such designated members or
participants are those that already have established and maintained connectivity to the SCI
entity’s backup systems. Accordingly, the Commission cannot at this time provide a quantified
estimate of the total aggregate cost to SCI entity members or participants under Rule 1004. 2065
Moreover, as noted above in Section IV.B.6.b, the Commission believes that adoption of
a designation requirement that requires SCI entities to exercise reasonable discretion to identify
those members or participants that, taken as a whole, are the “minimum necessary” for the
2065

The Commission believes that it can reasonably estimate connectivity costs but not all
costs associated with BC/DR testing. With respect to connectivity, the Commission now
estimates that Rule 1004 will impose a total aggregate annual cost of approximately $18
million for designated members and participants. This estimate assumes that each of the
44 SCI entities will designate between 10 and 20 percent of its members or participants to
participate in the necessary testing. This 10-20 percent estimate is based on staff
experience and takes into consideration comment that typically 20 percent of an SCI
entity’s members might provide 80 percent of the order flow or liquidity (see Tellefsen
Letter at 9), and balances it against another commenter’s view that if the standard for
designation was to identify those firms “critical to the operation of the SCI entity” (which
is more targeted than the adopted standard), this commenter would designate
approximately five percent of its members to participate in testing (see ISE Letter at 9).
The Commission understands that many SCI entities have between 200 and 400 members
or participants, although some have more and some have fewer. Therefore, the
Commission estimates that on average, each SCI entity will designate approximately 40
members or participants in such testing. Based on these assumptions, the Commission
estimates the total aggregate cost for connectivity to all designated members or
participants of all SCI entities to be approximately $17.6 million (44 SCI entities × 40
members or participants × $10,000 = $17.6 million).

692

maintenance of fair and orderly markets in the event of the activation of such plans is likely to
result in a smaller number of SCI entity members or participants being designated for
participation in testing as compared to the SCI Proposal, thus reducing total costs to all members
or participants combined. Because the Commission believes that SCI entities have an incentive
to limit the imposition of the cost and burden associated with testing to the minimum necessary
to comply with the rule, it also believes that, given the option, most SCI entities would, in the
exercise of reasonable discretion, prefer to designate fewer members or participants to participate
in testing, than to designate more. On balance, the Commission believes that the adopted rule
will incentivize SCI entities to designate those members and participants that are in fact the
minimum necessary for the maintenance of fair and orderly markets in the event of the activation
of their BC/DR plans, and that this should reduce the number of designations to which any
particular member or participant would be subject, compared to the SCI Proposal.
It remains possible, as some commenters noted, that firms that are members of multiple
SCI entities will be the subject of multiple designations, and that multiple designations could
require certain firms to maintain connections to backup sites and participate in testing of the
BC/DR plans of multiple SCI entities. As discussed in Section IV.B.6.b, the Commission
believes this possibility, though real, may be mitigated by the fact that designations are likely to
be made to firms that are already connected to one or more SCI entity backup facilities, because
they are more likely to be significant members or participants of the applicable SCI entities; and
that, because some SCI entity backup facilities are located in close proximity to each other,
multiple connections to such backup facilities may be less costly than if SCI entity backup
facilities were not so located. The Commission recognizes that there would be greater costs to a
firm being designated by multiple SCI entities to participate in the testing of their business

693

continuity and disaster recovery plans, but believes that these greater costs are warranted for
such firms, as they represent significant participants in each of the SCI entities for which they are
designated, and their participation in the testing of each such SCI entity’s business continuity and
disaster recovery plans is necessary to evaluate whether such plans are reliable and effective.
The Commission recognizes that a firm that is designated to participate in testing with multiple
SCI entities may assess the costs and burdens of participating in every test to be too great, and
make business decisions to withdraw its membership or participation from one or more such SCI
entities so as to avoid the costs and burdens of such testing. The Commission believes such a
scenario is unlikely because such firm is likely to be a larger firm with a significant level of
participation in such SCI entity and is likely to already have connections to backup facilities of
the SCI entity.
The Commission believes that the cost associated with Rule 1004 is unlikely to induce
the designated members or participants to reduce the number of SCI entities through which they
trade and adversely affect price competitiveness in markets. 2066 As noted above, the
Commission also recognizes that costs to some SCI entity members or participants associated
with Rule 1004 could be significant, and also highly variable depending on the business
continuity and disaster recovery plans being tested. Based on industry sources, the Commission
understands that most of the larger members or participants of SCI entities already maintain
connectivity with the backup systems of SCI entities. However, the Commission understands
that there is a lower incidence of smaller members or participants maintaining connectivity with
the backup sites of SCI entities. 2067 As such, the Commission believes that the compliance costs
2066

See supra notes 2055 and 2059 and accompanying text.

2067

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18172, n. 642.
694

associated with Rule 1004 would be higher for those members or participants that are designated
for testing by SCI entities who would need to invest in additional infrastructure to maintain
connectivity with an SCI entity’s backup systems to participate in testing, which the Commission
believes is more likely to be the case for smaller members or participants designated for testing.
The Commission acknowledges that the compliance costs associated with Rule 1004
could raise barriers to entry and affect competition among members or participants of SCI
entities. Specifically, to the extent that members or participants could be subject to designation
in business continuity and disaster recovery plan testing and could incur additional compliance
costs, the member or participant designation requirement of Rule 1004 could raise barriers to
entry. Also, as discussed above, the compliance costs of the rule will likely be higher for smaller
members or participants of SCI entities compared to larger members or participants of SCI
entities. However, the Commission believes the adverse effect on competition may be mitigated
to some extent as the most likely members or participants to be designated for testing are larger
members or participants who already maintain connectivity with an SCI entity’s backup systems.
Further, the adverse effect on competition could be partially mitigated to the extent that larger
firms, which are members of multiple SCI entities, could incur additional compliance costs as
these larger member firms could be subject to multiple designations for business continuity and
disaster recovery plan testing.
One commenter noted that mere network connectivity to an exchange or ATS would be
insufficient for a market maker to provide meaningful liquidity on an SCI entity. 2068 This
commenter noted that, if the Commission does not intend for SCI entities to be able to trade in
the same way from a backup facility as it trades from the primary site, then market makers could
2068

See KCG Letter at 12.

695

maintain a more limited remote connectivity to the backup site and incur less cost, although this
commenter believed that such an approach would not facilitate the posting of competitive
quotes. 2069 This commenter believed that this alternative approach would result in unusually
wide markets, and would not result in any benefits. 2070
As discussed in Section IV.B.6, Rule 1001(a) does not require that backup facilities of
SCI entities fully duplicate the features of primary facilities. Further as discussed in Section
IV.B.6, SCI entity members or participants are not required by Regulation SCI to maintain the
same level of connectivity with the backup sites of an SCI entity as they do with the primary
sites. In the event of a wide-scale disruption in the securities markets, the Commission
acknowledges that SCI entities and their members or participants may not be able to provide the
same level of liquidity as on a normal trading day. However, the Commission expects that, on a
day when business continuity and disaster recovery plans are in effect due to a wide-scale
disruption in the securities markets, the requirements of Rule 1004 will help ensure adequate
levels of liquidity and pricing efficiency to facilitate trading and maintain fair and orderly
markets without imposing excessive costs on SCI entities and market participants by requiring
them to maintain the same connectivity with the backup systems as with the primary sites.
Alternatives
Several commenters suggested alternatives to the proposed BC/DR testing
requirements. 2071 Two commenters suggested that few ATSs are critical enough to warrant

2069

See id. at 13.

2070

See id. at 13.

2071

See SIFMA Letter at 17; BIDS Letter at 8; and ITG Letter at 15.

696

inclusion in the BC/DR testing requirement. 2072 One commenter suggested that only SCI entities
that provide market functions on which other market participants depend be subject to the
requirements for separate backup and recovery capabilities. 2073 Furthermore, one commenter
urged that BC/DR testing coordination only be required among providers of singular services in
the market (i.e., exchange that lists securities, exclusive processors under NMS plans, and
clearing and settlement agencies). 2074
The Commission is not persuaded that SCI ATSs should be excluded from the
requirements of BC/DR testing plans. In today’s market, as discussed in Section IV.A.1.b, ATSs
collectively represent a significant source of liquidity for stock trading. Although the concept of
“fair and orderly markets” when BC/DR plans are in effect does not require the same level of
liquidity, depth, volatility, and other characteristics of trading on a normal trading day, the
Commission believes that excluding significant ATSs from BC/DR testing could harm liquidity,
depth, and volatility when BC/DR plans are in effect and, thus, could significantly reduce the
benefits of Rule 1004. Furthermore, with respect to the commenter that urged the Commission
only to include providers of singular services in BC/DR testing coordination, as mentioned in
Section IV.A.1.b, because trading in the U.S. securities markets today is dispersed among
exchanges, ATSs, and other trading venues, and often involves trading strategies that require
access to multiple trading venues, including ATSs, simultaneously, including all SCI entities, the
Commission believes that requiring SCI entities to coordinate testing would result in testing
under more realistic market conditions and help ensure that securities markets have improved

2072

See BIDS Letter at 8; and ITG Letter at 15.

2073

See KCG Letter at 8.

2074

See Direct Edge Letter at 9.

697

backup infrastructure, fewer market shutdowns, and fair and orderly markets in the event of the
activation of BC/DR plans.
Furthermore, one commenter stated that coordinated BC/DR testing is a good aspirational
goal, but expressed concern that too much is outside of the control of an individual SCI entity,
and therefore the rule should, at most, require SCI entities to attempt to coordinate such
testing. 2075 With respect to the comment suggesting that BC/DR testing coordination should be
an aspirational goal rather than a requirement, the Commission believes that voluntary BC/DR
testing is insufficient and will not further the goal of Regulation SCI as evidenced by Superstorm
Sandy discussed in Section IV.B.6. As discussed above, the Commission acknowledges that
there could be potential difficulties, including communicating with other SCI entities, in
coordinating BC/DR testing on an industry- or sector-wide basis.
c.

Recordkeeping and Electronic Filing – Rules 1005-1007

Entities that participate in the ARP Inspection Program currently keep records related to
the ARP Inspection Program. However, the recordkeeping requirements of Rules 1005-1007
would apply to more entities, systems, and types of systems issues than the ARP Inspection
Program. In addition, SCI entities are already subject to certain Commission recordkeeping
requirements. 2076 However, records relating to Regulation SCI may not be specifically addressed

2075

See CME Letter at 13.

2076

See, e.g., 17 CFR 240.17a-1, applicable to SCI SROs; 17 CFR 240.17a-3 and 17a-4,
applicable to broker-dealers; and 17 CFR 242.301-303, applicable to ATSs.
It has been the experience of the Commission that SCI entities presently subject to the
ARP Inspection Program (nearly all of whom are SCI SROs that are also subject to the
recordkeeping requirements of Rule 17a-1(a)) do generally keep and preserve the types of
records that would be subject to the requirements of Rule 1005. Nevertheless, the
Commission continues to believe that Regulation SCI’s codification of these preservation
698

in the recordkeeping requirements of certain rules. 2077 The Commission believes that the
recordkeeping requirements specifically related to Regulation SCI would enhance the ability of
the Commission to evaluate SCI entities’ compliance with Regulation SCI.
With respect to SCI SROs in particular, the Commission notes that they are subject to the
recordkeeping requirements of Rule 17a-1 under the Exchange Act, and the breadth of Rule 17a1 is such that it would require SCI SROs to make, keep, and preserve records relating to their
compliance with Regulation SCI. Therefore, Rule 1005(a) requires each SCI SRO to make,
keep, and preserve all documents relating to its compliance with Regulation SCI as prescribed in
Rule 17a-1 under the Exchange Act. 2078
Rule 1005(b) requires each SCI entity that is not an SCI SRO to make, keep, and preserve
at least one copy of all documents relating to its compliance with Regulation SCI. Each such
SCI entity is required to keep all such documents for a period of not less than five years, the first
two years in a place that is readily accessible to the Commission or its representatives for
inspection and examination. Each such SCI entity is also required to promptly furnish copies of
such documents to Commission representatives upon request. Rule 1005(c) requires each such
SCI entity, upon or immediately prior to ceasing to do business or ceasing to be registered under
the Exchange Act, to take all necessary action to ensure that the records required to be made,
kept, and preserved by Rule 1005 shall be accessible to the Commission and its representatives
in the manner required by Rule 1005 and for the remainder of the period required by Rule 1005.

practices will support an accurate, timely, and efficient inspection and examination
process and help ensure that all types of SCI entities keep and preserve such records.
2077

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18128.

2078

See supra Section IV.C.1.a (discussing recordkeeping requirements for SROs under Rule
17a-1).

699

According to Rule 1007, if the records required to be filed or kept by an SCI entity under
Regulation SCI are prepared or maintained by a service bureau or other recordkeeping service on
behalf of the SCI entity, the SCI entity is required to ensure that such records are available for
review by the Commission and its representatives by submitting a written undertaking, in a form
acceptable to the Commission, by such service bureau or other recordkeeping service to that
effect.
For SCI entities other than SCI SROs, Rule 1005 specifically addresses recordkeeping
requirements with respect to records relating to Regulation SCI compliance. The Commission
believes that Rules 1005 and 1007 would allow Commission staff to perform efficient
inspections and examinations of SCI entities for their compliance with Regulation SCI, and
would increase the likelihood that Commission staff can identify conduct inconsistent with
Regulation SCI at earlier stages in the inspection and examination process. Furthermore, as
discussed in Section IV.C.1.a, although many SCI events may be resolved in a short time frame,
there may be other SCI events that may not be discovered for an extended period of time after
their occurrences, or may take significant periods of time to fully resolve. In such cases, having
an SCI entity’s records available for a longer period of time or even after it has ceased to do
business or be registered under the Exchange Act would be beneficial. Preserved information
should provide the Commission with an additional source to help determine the causes and
consequences of one or more SCI events and better understand how such events may have
impacted trade execution, price discovery, liquidity, and investor participation. Consequently,
the Commission believes that the requirements of Rules 1005 and 1007 would help ensure
compliance with Regulation SCI and help realize the potential benefits (e.g., better pricing
efficiency, price discovery, and liquidity flows) of the regulation.

700

As noted above, the breadth of Rule 17a-1 under the Exchange Act is such that it would
require SCI SROs to make, keep, and preserve records relating to their compliance with
Regulation SCI. Therefore, for SCI SROs, the incremental compliance costs associated with
Rules 1005 and 1007 will be modest. 2079 On the other hand, for SCI entities that are not SCI
SROs, the recordkeeping requirements of Rules 1005 and 1007 will impose additional costs,
including one-time cost to set up or modify an existing recordkeeping system to comply with
Rules 1005 and 1007. The initial and ongoing compliance costs associated with the
recordkeeping requirements are attributed to paperwork burdens, which are discussed in Section
V.D.4 above. 2080
Rule 1006 requires SCI entities to electronically file all written information to the
Commission on Form SCI (except for notifications submitted pursuant to Rules 1002(b)(1) and
(b)(3)). Rule 1006 should provide a uniform manner in which the Commission would receive—
and SCI entities would provide—written notifications, reviews, descriptions, analyses, or reports
required by Regulation SCI. 2081 Rule 1006 should add efficiency for SCI entities in drafting and
submitting the required reports, and for the Commission in reviewing, analyzing, and responding

2079

As noted above, it has been the experience of the Commission that SCI entities presently
subject to the ARP Inspection Program generally keep and preserve the types of records
that would be subject to the requirements of Rule 1005. Nearly all of these ARP
participants are SCI SROs that are also subject to the recordkeeping requirements of Rule
17a-1.

2080

When monetized, the paperwork burden associated with all recordkeeping requirements
would result in approximately $857,000 initially for all non-SRO SCI entities in the
aggregate, and $27,000 annually for all non-SRO SCI entities in the aggregate.

2081

See Proposing Release, supra note 13, at 18129-30.

701

to the information provided. 2082 All costs associated with Form SCI are attributed to paperwork
burdens discussed in Section V.
Every SCI entity will be required to have the ability to electronically submit Form SCI
through the EFFS system, and every person designated to sign Form SCI will be required to have
an electronic signature and a digital ID. Each SCI entity will also be required to submit
documents attached as exhibits through the EFFS system in a text-searchable format, subject to a
limited exception. 2083 The Commission believes that requiring documents to be submitted in a
text-searchable format, subject to a limited exception, is necessary to allow Commission staff to
efficiently review and analyze information provided by SCI entities. Additionally, the
Commission believes that this requirement will not impose an additional burden on SCI entities,
as SCI entities likely already prepare documents in an electronic format that is text searchable or
can readily be converted into a format that is text searchable. The Commission also believes that
many SCI entities currently have the ability to access the EFFS system and electronically submit
Form SCI such that the requirement to submit Form SCI electronically will not impose
significant new implementation or ongoing costs. 2084 The Commission also believes that some
of the persons who will be designated to sign Form SCI already have digital IDs and the ability

2082

See id. at 18130.

2083

As noted in Section IV.C.2, the General Instructions to Form SCI, Item A.
specify that documents filed through the EFFS system must be in a text-searchable
format without the use of optical character recognition, with a limited exception to allow
for a portion of a Form SCI submission (e.g., an image or diagram) that cannot be made
available in a text-searchable format to be submitted in a non-text-searchable format.

2084

The initial and ongoing costs associated with various electronic submissions of Form SCI
are discussed in the Paperwork Reduction Act section above. See supra Section V.

702

to provide an electronic signature. To the extent that some persons do not have digital IDs, the
additional cost to obtain and maintain digital IDs is accounted for in the paperwork burden. 2085
As an alternative to the adopted electronic submission requirement, the Commission
considered requiring data to be submitted in a tagged data format such as XBRL. Requiring
reports to be filed in a tagged data format such as XBRL would likely permit faster and more
efficient analysis of information disclosed in reports but would also likely impose additional
compliance costs associated with tagging information in the narrative responses.
Rather than requiring the use of XBRL formatting for Form SCI, the Commission notes
that certain fields in Sections I-III of Form SCI will require information provided by SCI entities
to be in a format that will allow the Commission to gather information in a structured manner
(e.g., the submission type and SCI event type in Section I). By collecting information on Form
SCI in a way that allows the Commission to gather key information in a structured manner, the
Commission believes it will be able to more efficiently review and process filings made on Form
SCI. Moreover, gathering certain information in Sections I-III of Form SCI in a structured
format should not result in an additional cost to SCI entities.
VII.

Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”) 2086 requires Federal agencies, in promulgating

rules, to consider the impact of those rules on small entities. The Commission certified in the
SCI Proposal, pursuant to Section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (“RFA”), 2087

2085

See supra Section V.D.2.e.

2086

5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.

2087

5 U.S.C. 605(b).
703

that proposed Regulation SCI would not, if adopted, have a significant impact on a substantial
number of small entities. The Commission received no comments on this certification.
A.

SCI Entities

Paragraph (a) of Rule 0-10 provides that for purposes of the RFA, a small entity when
used with reference to a “person” other than an investment company means a person that, on the
last day of its most recent fiscal year, had total assets of $5 million or less. 2088 With regard to
broker-dealers, small entity means a broker or dealer that had total capital of less than $500,000
on the date in the prior fiscal year as of which its audited financial statements were prepared
pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d) under the Exchange Act, or, if not required to file such statements, had
total capital of less than $500,000 on the last business day of the preceding fiscal year (or in the
time that it has been in business, if shorter), and that is not affiliated with any person (other than
a natural person) that is not a small business or small organization. 2089 With regard to clearing
agencies, small entity means a clearing agency that compared, cleared, and settled less than $500
million in securities transactions during the preceding fiscal year (or in the time that it has been
in business, if shorter), had less than $200 million of funds and securities in its custody or control
at all times during the preceding fiscal year (or in the time that it has been in business, if shorter),
and is not affiliated with any person (other than a natural person) that is not a small business or
small organization. 2090 With regard to exchanges, small entity means an exchange that has been
exempt from the reporting requirements of Rule 601 under Regulation NMS, and is not affiliated
with any person (other than a natural person) that is not a small business or small

2088

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(a).

2089

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(c).

2090

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(d).

704

organization. 2091 With regard to securities information processors, small entity means a
securities information processor that had gross revenue of less than $10 million during the
preceding fiscal year (or in the time it has been in business, if shorter), provided service to fewer
than 100 interrogation devices or moving tickers at all times during the preceding fiscal year (or
in the time it has been in business, if shorter), and is not affiliated with any person (that is not a
natural person) that is not a small business or small organization. 2092 Under the standards
adopted by the Small Business Administration (“SBA”), entities engaged in financial
investments and related activities are considered small entities if they have $35.5 million or less
in average annual receipts. 2093
Based on the Commission’s existing information about the entities that will be subject to
Regulation SCI, the Commission believes that SCI entities that are self-regulatory organizations
(national securities exchanges, national securities associations, registered clearing agencies, and
the MSRB) or exempt clearing agencies subject to ARP would not fall within the Commission’s
definition of small entity as described above. With regard to plan processors, which are defined
under Rule 600(b)(55) of Regulation NMS to mean a self-regulatory organization or securities
information processor acting as an exclusive processor in connection with the development,
implementation and/or operation of any facility contemplated by an effective NMS plan, 2094 the
2091

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(e).

2092

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(g).

2093

See SBA’s Table of Small Business Size Standards, Subsector 523 and 13 CFR 121.201.
Such entities include firms engaged in investment banking and securities dealing,
securities brokerage, commodity contracts dealing, commodity contracts brokerage,
securities and commodity exchanges, miscellaneous intermediation, portfolio
management, investment advice, trust, fiduciary and custody activities, and
miscellaneous financial investment activities.

2094

See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(55).
705

Commission’s definition of small entity as it relates to self-regulatory organizations and
securities information processors would apply. The Commission does not believe that any plan
processor would be a small entity as defined above. With regard to SCI ATSs, because they are
registered as broker-dealers, the Commission’s definition of small entity as it relates to brokerdealers would apply. The Commission does not believe that any of the SCI ATSs would be a
small entity as defined above.
B.

Certification

For the foregoing reasons, the Commission again certifies that Regulation SCI will not
have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.

VIII. Statutory Authority and Text of Amendments
Pursuant to the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq., and particularly, Sections 2, 3, 5, 6,
11A, 15, 15A, 17, 17A, 23(a), and 24 thereof, 15 U.S.C. 78b, 78c, 78e, 78f, 78k-1, 78o, 78o-3,
78q, 78q-1, 78x, and 78w(a), the Commission adopts Regulation SCI under the Exchange Act
and Form SCI under the Exchange Act, and amends Regulation ATS and Rule 24b-2 under the
Exchange Act.
List of Subjects in 17 CFR Parts 240, 242, and 249
Brokers; Confidential business information; Reporting and recordkeeping requirements;
and Securities.
In accordance with the foregoing, Title 17, Chapter II of the Code of Federal Regulations is
amended as follows:

PART 240—GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934
1.

The authority citation for part 240 continues to read in part as follows:
706

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss,
77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n-1,
78o, 78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a-23, 80a-29,
80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, 7201 et seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C. 5221(e)(3);
18 U.S.C. 1350, unless otherwise noted.
*

2.

*

*

*

*

Amend § 240.24b-2 by:
a. After the words PRELIMINARY NOTE: adding the words “Except as
otherwise provided in this rule,” and revising the word “Confidential” to read
“confidential”.
b. Adding at the beginning of paragraph (b) introductory text the words “Except
as otherwise provided in paragraph (g) of this section,” and revising the word
“The” to read “the”.
c. Adding paragraph (g).
The addition reads as follows:
§ 240.24b-2. Nondisclosure of information filed with the Commission and
with any exchange.
* * * * *
(g) An SCI entity (as defined in § 242.1000 of this chapter) shall not omit the
confidential portion from the material filed in electronic format on Form SCI
pursuant to Regulation SCI, § 242.1000 et. seq., and, in lieu of the procedures

707

described in paragraph (b) of this section, may request confidential treatment of
all information provided on Form SCI by completing Section IV of Form SCI.
PART 242—REGULATIONS M, SHO, ATS, AC, NMS AND SCI AND CUSTOMER
MARGIN REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITY FUTURES
3.

The authority citation for part 242 continues to read as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77g, 77q(a), 77s(a), 78b, 78c, 78g(c)(2), 78i(a), 78j, 78k-1(c),
78l, 78m, 78n, 78o(b), 78o(c), 78o(g), 78q(a), 78q(b), 78q(h), 78w(a), 78dd-1, 78mm, 80a23,
80a-29, and 80a-37.
*
4.

*

*

*

*

The heading of part 242 is revised to read as set forth above.

§ 242.301 [Amended]
5.

Amend § 242.301 by removing paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) and redesignating

paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(C) and (D) as paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B), respectively.
6.

Add §§ 242.1000 through 242.1007 to read as follows:

Sec.
Regulation SCI – Systems Compliance and Integrity
242.1000

Definitions.

242.1001

Obligations related to policies and procedures of SCI entities.

242.1002

Obligations related to SCI events.

242.1003

Obligations related to systems changes; SCI review.

242.1004

SCI entity business continuity and disaster recovery plans testing requirements for

members or participants.

708

242.1005

Recordkeeping requirements related to compliance with Regulation SCI.

242.1006

Electronic filing and submission.

242.1007

Requirements for service bureaus.

§ 242.1000

Definitions.

For purposes of Regulation SCI (§§ 242.1000 through 242.1007), the following
definitions shall apply:
Critical SCI systems means any SCI systems of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI
entity that:
(1) Directly support functionality relating to:
(i) Clearance and settlement systems of clearing agencies;
(ii) Openings, reopenings, and closings on the primary listing market;
(iii) Trading halts;
(iv) Initial public offerings;
(v) The provision of consolidated market data; or
(vi) Exclusively-listed securities; or
(2) Provide functionality to the securities markets for which the availability of
alternatives is significantly limited or nonexistent and without which there would be a material
impact on fair and orderly markets.
Electronic signature has the meaning set forth in §240.19b-4(j) of this chapter.
Exempt clearing agency subject to ARP means an entity that has received from the
Commission an exemption from registration as a clearing agency under Section 17A of the Act,
and whose exemption contains conditions that relate to the Commission’s Automation Review
Policies (ARP), or any Commission regulation that supersedes or replaces such policies.

709

Indirect SCI systems means any systems of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI entity
that, if breached, would be reasonably likely to pose a security threat to SCI systems.
Major SCI event means an SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates
would have:
(1) Any impact on a critical SCI system; or
(2) A significant impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants.
Plan processor has the meaning set forth in §242.600(b)(55).
Responsible SCI personnel means, for a particular SCI system or indirect SCI system
impacted by an SCI event, such senior manager(s) of the SCI entity having responsibility for
such system, and their designee(s).
SCI alternative trading system or SCI ATS means an alternative trading system, as
defined in §242.300(a), which during at least four of the preceding six calendar months:
(1) Had with respect to NMS stocks:
(i) Five percent (5%) or more in any single NMS stock, and one-quarter percent (0.25%)
or more in all NMS stocks, of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable transaction
reporting plans; or
(ii) One percent (1%) or more in all NMS stocks of the average daily dollar volume
reported by applicable transaction reporting plans; or
(2) Had with respect to equity securities that are not NMS stocks and for which
transactions are reported to a self-regulatory organization, five percent (5%) or more of the
average daily dollar volume as calculated by the self-regulatory organization to which such
transactions are reported;

710

(3) Provided, however, that such SCI ATS shall not be required to comply with the
requirements of Regulation SCI until six months after satisfying any of paragraphs (a) or (b) of
this section, as applicable, for the first time.
SCI entity means an SCI self-regulatory organization, SCI alternative trading system,
plan processor, or exempt clearing agency subject to ARP.
SCI event means an event at an SCI entity that constitutes:
(1) A systems disruption;
(2) A systems compliance issue; or
(3) A systems intrusion.
SCI review means a review, following established procedures and standards, that is
performed by objective personnel having appropriate experience to conduct reviews of SCI
systems and indirect SCI systems, and which review contains:
(1) A risk assessment with respect to such systems of an SCI entity; and
(2) An assessment of internal control design and effectiveness of its SCI systems and
indirect SCI systems to include logical and physical security controls, development processes,
and information technology governance, consistent with industry standards.
SCI self-regulatory organization or SCI SRO means any national securities exchange,
registered securities association, or registered clearing agency, or the Municipal Securities
Rulemaking Board; provided however, that for purposes of this section, the term SCI selfregulatory organization shall not include an exchange that is notice registered with the
Commission pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78f(g) or a limited purpose national securities association
registered with the Commission pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 78o-3(k).

711

SCI systems means all computer, network, electronic, technical, automated, or similar
systems of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI entity that, with respect to securities, directly
support trading, clearance and settlement, order routing, market data, market regulation, or
market surveillance.
Senior management means, for purposes of Rule 1003(b), an SCI entity’s Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Technology Officer, Chief Information Officer, General Counsel, and
Chief Compliance Officer, or the equivalent of such employees or officers of an SCI entity.
Systems compliance issue means an event at an SCI entity that has caused any SCI
system of such entity to operate in a manner that does not comply with the Act and the rules and
regulations thereunder or the entity’s rules or governing documents, as applicable.
Systems disruption means an event in an SCI entity’s SCI systems that disrupts, or
significantly degrades, the normal operation of an SCI system.
Systems intrusion means any unauthorized entry into the SCI systems or indirect SCI
systems of an SCI entity.
§ 242.1001

Obligations related to policies and procedures of SCI entities.

(a) Capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security. (1) Each SCI entity shall
establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure
that its SCI systems and, for purposes of security standards, indirect SCI systems, have levels of
capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, and security, adequate to maintain the SCI entity’s
operational capability and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets.
(2) Policies and procedures required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall include, at a
minimum:

712

(i) The establishment of reasonable current and future technological infrastructure
capacity planning estimates;
(ii) Periodic capacity stress tests of such systems to determine their ability to process
transactions in an accurate, timely, and efficient manner;
(iii) A program to review and keep current systems development and testing methodology
for such systems;
(iv) Regular reviews and testing, as applicable, of such systems, including backup
systems, to identify vulnerabilities pertaining to internal and external threats, physical hazards,
and natural or manmade disasters;
(v) Business continuity and disaster recovery plans that include maintaining backup and
recovery capabilities sufficiently resilient and geographically diverse and that are reasonably
designed to achieve next business day resumption of trading and two-hour resumption of critical
SCI systems following a wide-scale disruption;
(vi) Standards that result in such systems being designed, developed, tested, maintained,
operated, and surveilled in a manner that facilitates the successful collection, processing, and
dissemination of market data; and
(vii) Monitoring of such systems to identify potential SCI events.
(3) Each SCI entity shall periodically review the effectiveness of the policies and
procedures required by this paragraph (a), and take prompt action to remedy deficiencies in such
policies and procedures.
(4) For purposes of this paragraph (a), such policies and procedures shall be deemed to be
reasonably designed if they are consistent with current SCI industry standards, which shall be
comprised of information technology practices that are widely available to information

713

technology professionals in the financial sector and issued by an authoritative body that is a U.S.
governmental entity or agency, association of U.S. governmental entities or agencies, or widely
recognized organization. Compliance with such current SCI industry standards, however, shall
not be the exclusive means to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (a).
(b) Systems compliance. (1) Each SCI entity shall establish, maintain, and enforce
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that its SCI systems operate in a
manner that complies with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and the entity’s rules
and governing documents, as applicable.
(2) Policies and procedures required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall include, at a
minimum:
(i) Testing of all SCI systems and any changes to SCI systems prior to implementation;
(ii) A system of internal controls over changes to SCI systems;
(iii) A plan for assessments of the functionality of SCI systems designed to detect
systems compliance issues, including by responsible SCI personnel and by personnel familiar
with applicable provisions of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and the SCI
entity’s rules and governing documents; and
(iv) A plan of coordination and communication between regulatory and other personnel
of the SCI entity, including by responsible SCI personnel, regarding SCI systems design,
changes, testing, and controls designed to detect and prevent systems compliance issues.
(3) Each SCI entity shall periodically review the effectiveness of the policies and
procedures required by this paragraph (b), and take prompt action to remedy deficiencies in such
policies and procedures.

714

(4) Safe harbor from liability for individuals. Personnel of an SCI entity shall be deemed
not to have aided, abetted, counseled, commanded, caused, induced, or procured the violation by
an SCI entity of this paragraph (b) if the person:
(i) Has reasonably discharged the duties and obligations incumbent upon such person by
the SCI entity’s policies and procedures; and
(ii) Was without reasonable cause to believe that the policies and procedures relating to
an SCI system for which such person was responsible, or had supervisory responsibility, were
not established, maintained, or enforced in accordance with this paragraph (b) in any material
respect.
(c) Responsible SCI personnel. (1) Each SCI entity shall establish, maintain, and enforce
reasonably designed written policies and procedures that include the criteria for identifying
responsible SCI personnel, the designation and documentation of responsible SCI personnel, and
escalation procedures to quickly inform responsible SCI personnel of potential SCI events.
(2) Each SCI entity shall periodically review the effectiveness of the policies and
procedures required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and take prompt action to remedy
deficiencies in such policies and procedures.
§ 242.1002

Obligations related to SCI events.

(a) Corrective action. Upon any responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to
conclude that an SCI event has occurred, each SCI entity shall begin to take appropriate
corrective action which shall include, at a minimum, mitigating potential harm to investors and
market integrity resulting from the SCI event and devoting adequate resources to remedy the SCI
event as soon as reasonably practicable.
(b) Commission notification and recordkeeping of SCI events. Each SCI entity shall:

715

(1) Upon any responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that an
SCI event has occurred, notify the Commission of such SCI event immediately;
(2) Within 24 hours of any responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to
conclude that the SCI event has occurred, submit a written notification pertaining to such SCI
event to the Commission, which shall be made on a good faith, best efforts basis and include:
(i) A description of the SCI event, including the system(s) affected; and
(ii) To the extent available as of the time of the notification: the SCI entity’s current
assessment of the types and number of market participants potentially affected by the SCI event;
the potential impact of the SCI event on the market; a description of the steps the SCI entity has
taken, is taking, or plans to take, with respect to the SCI event; the time the SCI event was
resolved or timeframe within which the SCI event is expected to be resolved; and any other
pertinent information known by the SCI entity about the SCI event;
(3) Until such time as the SCI event is resolved and the SCI entity’s investigation of the
SCI event is closed, provide updates pertaining to such SCI event to the Commission on a
regular basis, or at such frequency as reasonably requested by a representative of the
Commission, to correct any materially incorrect information previously provided, or when new
material information is discovered, including but not limited to, any of the information listed in
paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section;
(4)(i)(A) If an SCI event is resolved and the SCI entity’s investigation of the SCI event is
closed within 30 calendar days of the occurrence of the SCI event, then within five business days
after the resolution of the SCI event and closure of the investigation regarding the SCI event,
submit a final written notification pertaining to such SCI event to the Commission containing the
information required in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.

716

(B)(1) If an SCI event is not resolved or the SCI entity’s investigation of the SCI event is
not closed within 30 calendar days of the occurrence of the SCI event, then submit an interim
written notification pertaining to such SCI event to the Commission within 30 calendar days after
the occurrence of the SCI event containing the information required in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this
section, to the extent known at the time.
(2) Within five business days after the resolution of such SCI event and closure of the
investigation regarding such SCI event, submit a final written notification pertaining to such SCI
event to the Commission containing the information required in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this
section.
(ii) Written notifications required by paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section shall include:
(A) A detailed description of: the SCI entity’s assessment of the types and number of
market participants affected by the SCI event; the SCI entity’s assessment of the impact of the
SCI event on the market; the steps the SCI entity has taken, is taking, or plans to take, with
respect to the SCI event; the time the SCI event was resolved; the SCI entity’s rule(s) and/or
governing document(s), as applicable, that relate to the SCI event; and any other pertinent
information known by the SCI entity about the SCI event;
(B) A copy of any information disseminated pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section by
the SCI entity to date regarding the SCI event to any of its members or participants; and
(C) An analysis of parties that may have experienced a loss, whether monetary or
otherwise, due to the SCI event, the number of such parties, and an estimate of the aggregate
amount of such loss.
(5) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section shall not apply to
any SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have, no or a de

717

minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants. For such events, each
SCI entity shall:
(i) Make, keep, and preserve records relating to all such SCI events; and
(ii) Submit to the Commission a report, within 30 calendar days after the end of each
calendar quarter, containing a summary description of such systems disruptions and systems
intrusions, including the SCI systems and, for systems intrusions, indirect SCI systems, affected
by such systems disruptions and systems intrusions during the applicable calendar quarter.
(c) Dissemination of SCI events. (1) Each SCI entity shall:
(i) Promptly after any responsible SCI personnel has a reasonable basis to conclude that
an SCI event that is a systems disruption or systems compliance issue has occurred, disseminate
the following information about such SCI event:
(A) The system(s) affected by the SCI event; and
(B) A summary description of the SCI event; and
(ii) When known, promptly further disseminate the following information about such SCI
event:
(A) A detailed description of the SCI event;
(B) The SCI entity’s current assessment of the types and number of market participants
potentially affected by the SCI event; and
(C) A description of the progress of its corrective action for the SCI event and when the
SCI event has been or is expected to be resolved; and
(iii) Until resolved, provide regular updates of any information required to be
disseminated under paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

718

(2) Each SCI entity shall, promptly after any responsible SCI personnel has a reasonable
basis to conclude that a SCI event that is a systems intrusion has occurred, disseminate a
summary description of the systems intrusion, including a description of the corrective action
taken by the SCI entity and when the systems intrusion has been or is expected to be resolved,
unless the SCI entity determines that dissemination of such information would likely
compromise the security of the SCI entity’s SCI systems or indirect SCI systems, or an
investigation of the systems intrusion, and documents the reasons for such determination.
(3) The information required to be disseminated under paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this
section promptly after any responsible SCI personnel has a reasonable basis to conclude that an
SCI event has occurred, shall be promptly disseminated by the SCI entity to those members or
participants of the SCI entity that any responsible SCI personnel has reasonably estimated may
have been affected by the SCI event, and promptly disseminated to any additional members or
participants that any responsible SCI personnel subsequently reasonably estimates may have
been affected by the SCI event; provided, however, that for major SCI events, the information
required to be disseminated under paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section shall be promptly
disseminated by the SCI entity to all of its members or participants.
(4) The requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section shall not apply to:
(i) SCI events to the extent they relate to market regulation or market surveillance
systems; or
(ii) Any SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have, no or
a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants.
§ 242.1003

Obligations related to systems changes; SCI review.

(a) Systems changes. Each SCI entity shall:

719

(1) Within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter, submit to the
Commission a report describing completed, ongoing, and planned material changes to its SCI
systems and the security of indirect SCI systems, during the prior, current, and subsequent
calendar quarters, including the dates or expected dates of commencement and completion. An
SCI entity shall establish reasonable written criteria for identifying a change to its SCI systems
and the security of indirect SCI systems as material and report such changes in accordance with
such criteria.
(2) Promptly submit a supplemental report notifying the Commission of a material error
in or material omission from a report previously submitted under this paragraph (a).
(b) SCI review. Each SCI entity shall:
(1) Conduct an SCI review of the SCI entity’s compliance with Regulation SCI not less
than once each calendar year; provided, however, that:
(i) Penetration test reviews of the network, firewalls, and production systems shall be
conducted at a frequency of not less than once every three years; and
(ii) Assessments of SCI systems directly supporting market regulation or market
surveillance shall be conducted at a frequency based upon the risk assessment conducted as part
of the SCI review, but in no case less than once every three years; and
(2) Submit a report of the SCI review required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section to
senior management of the SCI entity for review no more than 30 calendar days after completion
of such SCI review; and
(3) Submit to the Commission, and to the board of directors of the SCI entity or the
equivalent of such board, a report of the SCI review required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section,

720

together with any response by senior management, within 60 calendar days after its submission
to senior management of the SCI entity.
§ 242.1004

SCI entity business continuity and disaster recovery plans testing

requirements for members or participants.
With respect to an SCI entity’s business continuity and disaster recovery plans, including
its backup systems, each SCI entity shall:
(a) Establish standards for the designation of those members or participants that the SCI
entity reasonably determines are, taken as a whole, the minimum necessary for the maintenance
of fair and orderly markets in the event of the activation of such plans;
(b) Designate members or participants pursuant to the standards established in paragraph
(a) of this section and require participation by such designated members or participants in
scheduled functional and performance testing of the operation of such plans, in the manner and
frequency specified by the SCI entity, provided that such frequency shall not be less than once
every 12 months; and
(c) Coordinate the testing of such plans on an industry- or sector-wide basis with other
SCI entities.
§ 242.1005

Recordkeeping requirements related to compliance with Regulation SCI.

(a) An SCI SRO shall make, keep, and preserve all documents relating to its compliance
with Regulation SCI as prescribed in §240.17a-1 of this chapter.
(b) An SCI entity that is not an SCI SRO shall:
(1) Make, keep, and preserve at least one copy of all documents, including
correspondence, memoranda, papers, books, notices, accounts, and other such records, relating to

721

its compliance with Regulation SCI, including, but not limited to, records relating to any changes
to its SCI systems and indirect SCI systems;
(2) Keep all such documents for a period of not less than five years, the first two years in
a place that is readily accessible to the Commission or its representatives for inspection and
examination; and
(3) Upon request of any representative of the Commission, promptly furnish to the
possession of such representative copies of any documents required to be kept and preserved by
it pursuant to paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(c) Upon or immediately prior to ceasing to do business or ceasing to be registered under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, an SCI entity shall take all necessary action to ensure that
the records required to be made, kept, and preserved by this section shall be accessible to the
Commission and its representatives in the manner required by this section and for the remainder
of the period required by this section.
§ 242.1006

Electronic filing and submission.

(a) Except with respect to notifications to the Commission made pursuant to §
242.1002(b)(1) or updates to the Commission made pursuant to paragraph § 242.1002(b)(3), any
notification, review, description, analysis, or report to the Commission required to be submitted
under Regulation SCI shall be filed electronically on Form SCI (§249.1900 of this chapter),
include all information as prescribed in Form SCI and the instructions thereto, and contain an
electronic signature; and
(b) The signatory to an electronically filed Form SCI shall manually sign a signature page
or document, in the manner prescribed by Form SCI, authenticating, acknowledging, or
otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in typed form within the electronic filing.

722

Such document shall be executed before or at the time Form SCI is electronically filed and shall
be retained by the SCI entity in accordance with § 242.1005.
§ 242.1007

Requirements for service bureaus.

If records required to be filed or kept by an SCI entity under Regulation SCI are
prepared or maintained by a service bureau or other recordkeeping service on behalf of the SCI
entity, the SCI entity shall ensure that the records are available for review by the Commission
and its representatives by submitting a written undertaking, in a form acceptable to the
Commission, by such service bureau or other recordkeeping service, signed by a duly authorized
person at such service bureau or other recordkeeping service. Such a written undertaking shall
include an agreement by the service bureau to permit the Commission and its representatives to
examine such records at any time or from time to time during business hours, and to promptly
furnish to the Commission and its representatives true, correct, and current electronic files in a
form acceptable to the Commission or its representatives or hard copies of any or all or any part
of such records, upon request, periodically, or continuously and, in any case, within the same
time periods as would apply to the SCI entity for such records. The preparation or maintenance
of records by a service bureau or other recordkeeping service shall not relieve an SCI entity from
its obligation to prepare, maintain, and provide the Commission and its representatives access to
such records.
PART 249 – FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
7.

The general authority citation for part 249 continues to read in part as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. and 7201; and 18 U.S.C. 1350 unless otherwise noted.
*
8.

*

*

*

*

Add subpart T, consisting of § 249.1900 to read as follows:

723

Subpart T—Form SCI, for filing notices and reports as required by Regulation SCI.
§ 249.1900. Form SCI, for filing notices and reports as required by Regulation SCI.
Form SCI shall be used to file notices and reports as required by Regulation SCI (§§
242.1000 through 242.1007).
[Note: The text of Form SCI does not, and the amendments will not, appear in the Code of
Federal Regulations.]
Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, DC 20549
Form SCI
Page 1 of ______

File No. SCI-{name}-YYYY-###

SCI Notification and Reporting by: {SCI entity name}
Pursuant to Rules 1002 and 1003 of Regulation SCI under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 Initial
 Withdrawal
SECTION I:

Rule 1002 - Commission Notification of SCI Event

A. Submission Type (select one only)


Rule 1002(b)(1) Initial Notification of SCI event



Rule 1002(b)(2) Notification of SCI event



Rule 1002(b)(3) Update of SCI event: ####



Rule 1002(b)(4) Final Report of SCI Event



Rule 1002(b)(4) Interim Status Report of SCI event

If filing a Rule 1002(b)(1) or Rule 1002(b)(3) submission, please provide a brief description:
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________

B. SCI Event Type(s) (select all that apply)


Systems compliance issue



Systems disruption



Systems intrusion

C. General Information Required for (b)(2) filings.
1) Has the Commission previously been notified of the SCI event pursuant to 1002(b)(1)? yes/no
2) Date/time SCI event occurred: mm/dd/yyyy hh:mm am/pm

724

3) Duration of SCI event: hh:mm, or days
4) Please provide the date and time when a responsible SCI personnel had reasonable basis to
conclude the SCI event occurred:
mm/dd/yyyy

hh:mm am/pm

5) Has the SCI event been resolved? yes/no
a) If yes, provide date and time of resolution:

mm/dd/yyyy

hh:mm am/pm

6) Is the investigation of the SCI event closed? yes/no
a) If yes, provide date of closure: mm/dd/yyyy
7) Estimated number of market participants potentially affected by the SCI event: ####
8) Is the SCI event a major SCI event (as defined in Rule 1000)? yes/no

725

D. Information about impacted systems:
Name(s) of system(s):
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________
Type(s) of system(s) impacted by the SCI event (check all that apply):


Trading



Clearance and settlement



Order routing



Market data



Market regulation



Market surveillance



Indirect SCI systems (please describe):
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________

Are any critical SCI systems impacted by the SCI event (check all that apply)? Yes/No
1)

Systems that directly support functionality relating to:
 Clearance and settlement systems of clearing agencies
 Openings, reopenings, and closings on the primary listing market

2)

 Trading halts

 Initial public offerings

 The provision of consolidated market data

 Exclusively-listed securities



Systems that provide functionality to the securities markets for which the availability of alternatives

is significantly limited or nonexistent and without which there would be a material impact on fair and
orderly markets (please describe):
________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________

SECTION II: Periodic Reporting (select one only)
A. Quarterly Reports: For the quarter ended: mm/dd/yyyy
 Rule 1002(b)(5)(ii): Quarterly report of systems disruptions and systems intrusions with no or a
de minimis impact.
 Rule 1003(a)(1): Quarterly report of material systems changes
 Rule 1003(a)(2): Supplemental report of material systems changes
B. SCI Review Reports
 Rule 1003(b)(3): Report of SCI review, together with any response by senior management
Date of completion of SCI review: mm/dd/yyyy
Date of submission of SCI review to senior management: mm/dd/yyyy

726

SECTION III: Contact Information
Provide the following information of the person at the {SCI entity name} prepared to respond to questions
for this submission:
First Name:

Last Name:

Title:
E-Mail:
Telephone:

Fax:

Additional Contacts (Optional)
First Name:

Last Name:

Title:
E-Mail:
Telephone:

Fax:

First Name:

Last Name:

Title:
E-Mail:
Telephone:

Fax:

SECTION IV: Signature
Confidential treatment is requested pursuant to Rule 24b-2(g). Additionally, pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, {SCI Entity name} has duly caused this
{notification}{report} to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned duly authorized officer:
Date:
By (Name)

Title (_______________________)

“Digitally Sign and Lock Form”

727

Exhibit 1:
Rule 1002(b)(2)
Notification of SCI Event
Add/Remove/View

Within 24 hours of any responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude
that the SCI event has occurred, the SCI entity shall submit a written notification pertaining
to such SCI event to the Commission, which shall be made on a good faith, best efforts basis
and include:
(a) a description of the SCI event, including the system(s) affected; and
(b) to the extent available as of the time of the notification: the SCI entity’s current
assessment of the types and number of market participants potentially affected by
the SCI event; the potential impact of the SCI event on the market; a description of
the steps the SCI entity has taken, is taking, or plans to take, with respect to the
SCI event; the time the SCI event was resolved or timeframe within which the SCI
event is expected to be resolved; and any other pertinent information known by
the SCI entity about the SCI event.

Exhibit 2:
Rule 1002(b)(4)
Final or Interim Report of SCI
Event
Add/Remove/View

When submitting a final report pursuant to either Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(A) or Rule
1002(b)(4)(i)(B)(2), the SCI entity shall include:
(a) a detailed description of: the SCI entity’s assessment of the types and number of
market participants affected by the SCI event; the SCI entity’s assessment of the
impact of the SCI event on the market; the steps the SCI entity has taken, is taking,
or plans to take, with respect to the SCI event; the time the SCI event was resolved;
the SCI entity’s rule(s) and/or governing document(s), as applicable, that relate to
the SCI event; and any other pertinent information known by the SCI entity about
the SCI event;
(b) a copy of any information disseminated pursuant to Rule 1002(c) by the SCI entity
to date regarding the SCI event to any of its members or participants; and
(c)

an analysis of parties that may have experienced a loss, whether monetary or
otherwise, due to the SCI event, the number of such parties, and an estimate of the
aggregate amount of such loss.

When submitting an interim report pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(B)(1), the SCI entity
shall include such information to the extent known at the time.
Exhibit 3:
Rule 1002(b)(5)(ii)
Quarterly Report of De
Minimis SCI Events
Add/Remove/View

Exhibit 4:
Rule 1003 (a)
Quarterly Report of Systems
Changes
Add/Remove/View

The SCI entity shall submit a report, within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar
quarter, containing a summary description of systems disruptions and systems intrusions
that have had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have, no or a de minimis
impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants, including the SCI systems
and, for systems intrusions, indirect SCI systems, affected by such SCI events during the
applicable calendar quarter.
When submitting a report pursuant to Rule 1003(a)(1), the SCI entity shall provide a report,
within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter, describing completed,
ongoing, and planned material changes to its SCI systems and the security of indirect SCI
systems, during the prior, current, and subsequent calendar quarters, including the dates or
expected dates of commencement and completion. An SCI entity shall establish reasonable
written criteria for identifying a change to its SCI systems and the security of indirect SCI
systems as material and report such changes in accordance with such criteria.
When submitting a report pursuant to Rule 1003(a)(2), the SCI entity shall provide a
supplemental report of a material error in or material omission from a report previously
submitted under Rule 1003(a)(1).

Exhibit 5:
Rule 1003(b)(3)
Report of SCI review
Add/Remove/View
Exhibit 6:
Optional Attachments
Add/Remove/View

The SCI entity shall provide a report of the SCI review, together with any response by senior
management, within 60 calendar days after its submission to senior management of the SCI
entity.
This exhibit may be used in order to attach other documents that the SCI entity may wish to
submit as part of a Rule 1002(b)(1) initial notification submission or Rule 1002(b)(3)
update submission.

728

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR FORM SCI
A.

Use of the Form
Except with respect to notifications to the Commission made pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(1)

or updates to the Commission made pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(3), any notification, review,
description, analysis, or report required to be submitted pursuant to Regulation SCI under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”) shall be filed in an electronic format through an
electronic form filing system (“EFFS”), a secure website operated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission (“Commission”). Documents attached as exhibits filed through the EFFS
system must be in a text-searchable format without the use of optical character recognition. If,
however, a portion of a Form SCI submission (e.g., an image or diagram) cannot be made
available in a text-searchable format, such portion may be submitted in a non-text searchable
format.
B.

Need for Careful Preparation of the Completed Form, Including Exhibits
This form, including the exhibits, is intended to elicit information necessary for

Commission staff to work with SCI self-regulatory organizations, SCI alternative trading
systems, plan processors, and exempt clearing agencies subject to ARP (collectively, “SCI
entities”) to ensure the capacity, integrity, resiliency, availability, security, and compliance of
their automated systems. An SCI entity must provide all the information required by the form,
including the exhibits, and must present the information in a clear and comprehensible manner.
A filing that is incomplete or similarly deficient may be returned to the SCI entity. Any filing so
returned shall for all purposes be deemed not to have been filed with the Commission. See also
Rule 0-3 under the Act (17 CFR 240.0-3).
C.

When to Use the Form
729

Form SCI is comprised of six types of required submissions to the Commission pursuant
to Rules 1002 and 1003. In addition, Form SCI permits SCI entities to submit to the
Commission two additional types of submissions pursuant to Rules 1002(b)(1) and 1002(b)(3);
however, SCI entities are not required to use Form SCI for these two types of submissions to the
Commission. In filling out Form SCI, an SCI entity shall select the type of filing and provide all
information required by Regulation SCI specific to that type of filing.
The first two types of required submissions relate to Commission notification of certain
SCI events:
(1) “Rule 1002(b)(2) Notification of SCI Event” submissions for notifications regarding
systems disruptions, systems compliance issues, or systems intrusions (collectively, “SCI
events”), other than any systems disruption or systems intrusion that has had, or the SCI entity
reasonably estimates would have, no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on
market participants; and
(2) “Rule 1002(b)(4) Final or Interim Report of SCI Event” submissions, of which there
are two kinds (a final report under Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(A) or Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(B)(2); or an
interim status report under Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(B)(1)).
The other four types of required submissions are periodic reports, and include:
(1) “Rule 1002(b)(5)(ii)” submissions for quarterly reports of systems disruptions and
systems intrusions which have had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would have, no or a de
minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants (“de minimis SCI
events”);
(2) “Rule 1003(a)(1)” submissions for quarterly reports of material systems changes;
730

(3) “Rule 1003(a)(2)” submissions for supplemental reports of material systems changes;
and
(4) “Rule 1003(b)(3)” submissions for reports of SCI reviews.
Required Submissions for SCI Events
For 1002(b)(2) submissions, an SCI entity must notify the Commission using Form SCI
by selecting the appropriate box in Section I and filling out all information required by the form,
including Exhibit 1. 1002(b)(2) submissions must be submitted within 24 hours of any
responsible SCI personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that an SCI event has occurred.
For 1002(b)(4) submissions, if an SCI event is resolved and the SCI entity’s investigation
of the SCI event is closed within 30 calendar days of the occurrence of the SCI event, an SCI
entity must file a final report under Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(A) within five business days after the
resolution of the SCI event and closure of the investigation regarding the SCI event. However, if
an SCI event is not resolved or the SCI entity’s investigation of the SCI event is not closed
within 30 calendar days of the occurrence of the SCI event, an SCI entity must file an interim
status report under Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(B)(1) within 30 calendar days after the occurrence of the
SCI event. For SCI events in which an interim status report is required to be filed, an SCI entity
must file a final report under Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(B)(2) within five business days after the
resolution of the SCI event and closure of the investigation regarding the SCI event. For
1002(b)(4) submissions, an SCI entity must notify the Commission using Form SCI by selecting
the appropriate box in Section I and filling out all information required by the form, including
Exhibit 2.
Required Submissions for Periodic Reporting

731

For 1002(b)(5)(ii) submissions, an SCI entity must submit quarterly reports of systems
disruptions and systems intrusions which have had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would
have, no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations or on market participants. The
SCI entity must select the appropriate box in Section II and fill out all information required by
the form, including Exhibit 3.
For 1003(a)(1) submissions, an SCI entity must submit its quarterly report of material
systems changes to the Commission using Form SCI. The SCI entity must select the appropriate
box in Section II and fill out all information required by the form, including Exhibit 4.
Filings made pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(5)(ii) and Rule 1003(a)(1) must be submitted to
the Commission within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter (i.e., March 31st,
June 30th, September 30th and December 31st) of each year.
For 1003(a)(2) submissions, an SCI entity must submit a supplemental report notifying
the Commission of a material error in or material omission from a report previously submitted
under Rule 1003(a). The SCI entity must select the appropriate box in Section II and fill out all
information required by the form, including Exhibit 4.
For 1003(b)(3) submissions, an SCI entity must submit its report of its SCI review,
together with any response by senior management, to the Commission using Form SCI. A
1003(b)(3) submission is required within 60 calendar days after the report of the SCI review has
been submitted to senior management of the SCI entity. The SCI entity must select the
appropriate box in Section II and fill out all information required by the form, including Exhibit
5.
Optional Submissions

732

An SCI entity may, but is not required to, use Form SCI to submit a notification pursuant
to Rule 1002(b)(1). If the SCI entity uses Form SCI to submit a notification pursuant to Rule
1002(b)(1), it must select the appropriate box in Section I and provide a short description of the
SCI event. Documents may also be attached as Exhibit 6 if the SCI entity chooses to do so. An
SCI entity may, but is not required to, use Form SCI to submit an update pursuant to Rule
1002(b)(3). Rule 1002(b)(3) requires an SCI entity to, until such time as the SCI event is
resolved and the SCI entity’s investigation of the SCI event is closed, provide updates pertaining
to such SCI event to the Commission on a regular basis, or at such frequency as reasonably
requested by a representative of the Commission, to correct any materially incorrect information
previously provided, or when new material information is discovered, including but not limited
to, any of the information listed in Rule 1002(b)(2)(ii). If the SCI entity uses Form SCI to
submit an update pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(3), it must select the appropriate box in Section I and
provide a short description of the SCI event. Documents may also be attached as Exhibit 6 if the
SCI entity chooses to do so.
D.

Documents Comprising the Completed Form
The completed form filed with the Commission shall consist of Form SCI, responses to

all applicable items, and any exhibits required in connection with the filing. Each filing shall be
marked on Form SCI with the initials of the SCI entity, the four-digit year, and the number of the
filing for the year (e.g., SCI Name-YYYY-XXX).
E.

Contact Information; Signature; and Filing of the Completed Form
Each time an SCI entity submits a filing to the Commission on Form SCI, the SCI entity

must provide the contact information required by Section III of Form SCI. Space for additional
contact information, if appropriate, is also provided.
733

All notifications and reports required to be submitted through Form SCI shall be filed
through the EFFS. In order to file Form SCI through the EFFS, SCI entities must request access
to the Commission’s External Application Server by completing a request for an external
account user ID and password. Initial requests will be received by contacting (202) 551-5777.
An e-mail will be sent to the requestor that will provide a link to a secure website where basic
profile information will be requested. A duly authorized individual of the SCI entity shall
electronically sign the completed Form SCI as indicated in Section IV of the form. In addition, a
duly authorized individual of the SCI entity shall manually sign one copy of the completed Form
SCI, and the manually signed signature page shall be preserved pursuant to the requirements of
Rule 1005.
F.

Withdrawals of Commission Notifications and Periodic Reports
If an SCI entity determines to withdraw a Form SCI, it must complete Page 1 of the Form

SCI and indicate by selecting the appropriate check box to withdraw the submission.
G.

Paperwork Reduction Act Disclosure
This collection of information will be reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget

in accordance with the clearance requirements of 44 U.S.C. 3507. An agency may not conduct
or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it
displays a currently valid control number. The Commission estimates that the average burden to
respond to Form SCI will be between one and 125 hours, depending upon the purpose for which
the form is being filed. Any member of the public may direct to the Commission any comments
concerning the accuracy of this burden estimate and any suggestions for reducing this burden.

734

Except with respect to notifications to the Commission made pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(1)
or updates to the Commission made pursuant to Rule 1002(b)(3), it is mandatory that an SCI
entity file all notifications, reviews, descriptions, analyses, and reports required by Regulation
SCI using Form SCI. The Commission will keep the information collected pursuant to Form SCI
confidential to the extent permitted by law. Subject to the provisions of the Freedom of
Information Act, 5 U.S.C. 522 (“FOIA”), and the Commission’s rules thereunder (17 CFR
200.80(b)(4)(iii)), the Commission does not generally publish or make available information
contained in any reports, summaries, analyses, letters, or memoranda arising out of, in
anticipation of, or in connection with an examination or inspection of the books and records of
any person or any other investigation.
H.

Exhibits

List of exhibits to be filed, as applicable:
Exhibit 1: Rule 1002(b)(2) – Notification of SCI Event. Within 24 hours of any responsible SCI
personnel having a reasonable basis to conclude that the SCI event has occurred, the SCI entity
shall submit a written notification pertaining to such SCI event to the Commission, which shall
be made on a good faith, best efforts basis and include: (a) a description of the SCI event,
including the system(s) affected; and (b) to the extent available as of the time of the notification:
the SCI entity’s current assessment of the types and number of market participants potentially
affected by the SCI event; the potential impact of the SCI event on the market; a description of
the steps the SCI entity has taken, is taking, or plans to take, with respect to the SCI event; the
time the SCI event was resolved or timeframe within which the SCI event is expected to be
resolved; and any other pertinent information known by the SCI entity about the SCI event.

735

Exhibit 2: Rule 1002(b)(4) – Final or Interim Report of SCI Event. When submitting a final
report pursuant to either Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(A) or Rule 1002(b)(4)(i)(B)(2), the SCI entity shall
include: (a) a detailed description of: the SCI entity’s assessment of the types and number of
market participants affected by the SCI event; the SCI entity’s assessment of the impact of the
SCI event on the market; the steps the SCI entity has taken, is taking, or plans to take, with
respect to the SCI event; the time the SCI event was resolved; the SCI entity’s rule(s) and/or
governing document(s), as applicable, that relate to the SCI event; and any other pertinent
information known by the SCI entity about the SCI event; (b) a copy of any information
disseminated pursuant to Rule 1002(c) by the SCI entity to date regarding the SCI event to any
of its members or participants; and (c) an analysis of parties that may have experienced a loss,
whether monetary or otherwise, due to the SCI event, the number of such parties, and an estimate
of the aggregate amount of such loss. When submitting an interim report pursuant to Rule
1002(b)(4)(i)(B)(1), the SCI entity shall include such information to the extent known at the
time.
Exhibit 3: Rule 1002(b)(5)(ii) – Quarterly Report of De Minimis SCI Events. The SCI entity
shall submit a report, within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter, containing a
summary description of systems disruptions and systems intrusions that have had, or the SCI
entity reasonably estimates would have, no or a de minimis impact on the SCI entity’s operations
or on market participants, including the SCI systems and, for systems intrusions, indirect SCI
systems, affected by such SCI events during the applicable calendar quarter.
Exhibit 4: Rule 1003(a) – Quarterly Report of Systems Changes. When submitting a report
pursuant to Rule 1003(a)(1), the SCI entity shall provide a report, within 30 calendar days after
the end of each calendar quarter, describing completed, ongoing, and planned material changes
736

to its SCI systems and the security of indirect SCI systems, during the prior, current, and
subsequent calendar quarters, including the dates or expected dates of commencement and
completion. An SCI entity shall establish reasonable written criteria for identifying a change to
its SCI systems and the security of indirect SCI systems as material and report such changes in
accordance with such criteria. When submitting a report pursuant to Rule 1003(a)(2), the SCI
entity shall provide a supplemental report of a material error in or material omission from a
report previously submitted under Rule 1003(a); provided, however, that a supplemental report is
not required if information regarding a material systems change is or will be provided as part of a
notification made pursuant to Rule 1002(b).
Exhibit 5: Rule 1003(b)(3) – Report of SCI Review. The SCI entity shall provide a report of the
SCI review, together with any response by senior management, within 60 calendar days after its
submission to senior management of the SCI entity.
Exhibit 6: Optional Attachments. This exhibit may be used in order to attach other documents
that the SCI entity may wish to submit as part of a Rule 1002(b)(1) initial notification submission
or Rule 1002(b)(3) update submission.
I.

Explanation of Terms

Critical SCI systems means any SCI systems of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI entity
that: (1) directly support functionality relating to: (i) clearance and settlement systems of
clearing agencies; (ii) openings, reopenings, and closings on the primary listing market; (iii)
trading halts; (iv) initial public offerings; (v) the provision of consolidated market data; or (vi)
exclusively-listed securities; or (2) provide functionality to the securities markets for which the

737

availability of alternatives is significantly limited or nonexistent and without which there would
be a material impact on fair and orderly markets.
Indirect SCI systems means any systems of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI entity that, if
breached, would be reasonably likely to pose a security threat to SCI systems.
Major SCI event means an SCI event that has had, or the SCI entity reasonably estimates would
have: (1) any impact on a critical SCI system; or (2) a significant impact on the SCI entity’s
operations or on market participants.
Responsible SCI personnel means, for a particular SCI system or indirect SCI system impacted
by an SCI event, such senior manager(s) of the SCI entity having responsibility for such system,
and their designee(s).
SCI entity means an SCI self-regulatory organization, SCI alternative trading system, plan
processor, or exempt clearing agency subject to ARP.
SCI event means an event at an SCI entity that constitutes: (1) a systems disruption; (2) a
systems compliance issue; or (3) a systems intrusion.
SCI review means a review, following established procedures and standards, that is performed
by objective personnel having appropriate experience to conduct reviews of SCI systems and
indirect SCI systems, and which review contains: (1) a risk assessment with respect to such
systems of an SCI entity; and (2) an assessment of internal control design and effectiveness of its
SCI systems and indirect SCI systems to include logical and physical security controls,
development processes, and information technology governance, consistent with industry
standards.

738

SCI systems means all computer, network, electronic, technical, automated, or similar systems
of, or operated by or on behalf of, an SCI entity that, with respect to securities, directly support
trading, clearance and settlement, order routing, market data, market regulation, or market
surveillance.
Systems Compliance Issue means an event at an SCI entity that has caused any SCI system of
such entity to operate in a manner that does not comply with the Act and the rules and
regulations thereunder or the entity’s rules or governing documents, as applicable.
Systems Disruption means an event in an SCI entity’s SCI systems that disrupts, or significantly
degrades, the normal operation of an SCI system.
Systems Intrusion means any unauthorized entry into the SCI systems or indirect SCI systems
of an SCI entity.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields,
Secretary.

Dated: November 19, 2014.

739

Exhibit A
Key to Comment Letters Cited in Regulation SCI Adopting Release
(File No. S7-01-13)
Letter from Charles V. Rossi, President, The Securities Transfer Association, Inc. to Elizabeth
Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated April 3, 2013 (“STA Letter”)
Letter from John J. Rapa, President/Chief Executive Officer, Tellefsen and Company, L.L.C.,
Northborough, Massachusetts to Elizabeth Murphy, Commission, dated April 19, 2013
(“Tellefsen Letter”)
Letter from Cynthia Fuller, Executive Director, on behalf of Accredited Standards Committee
X9, Inc. Financial Industry Standards to the Commission, dated May 23, 2013 (“X9 Letter”)
Letter from Scott Cooper, Vice President, Government Relations and Public Policy, American
National Standards Institute to the Commission, dated May 23, 2013 (“ANSI Letter”)
Letter from James J. Angel, Ph.D., CFA, Visiting Associate Professor, The Wharton School,
University of Pennsylvania to the Commission, dated June 3, 2013 (“Angel Letter”)
Letter from Raymond M. Tierney III, President and Chief Executive Officer, Bloomberg
Tradebook LLC to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated June 19, 2013 (“Tradebook
Letter”)
Letter from Jay M. Goldstone, Chairman, Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, Alexandria,
Virginia to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated June 28, 2013 (“MSRB Letter”)
Letter from Thomas V. D’Ambrosio, Chairman, Committee on Futures and Derivatives, New
York City Bar Association to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 1, 2013
(“NYC Bar Letter”)
Letter from Richard M. Whiting, Executive Director and General Counsel, The Financial
Services Roundtable to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 5, 2013 (“FSR
Letter”)
Letter from Rob Flatley, Chief Executive Officer and President, CoreOne Technologies to
Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“CoreOne Letter”)
Letter from Manisha Kimmel, Executive Director, Financial Information Forum to Elizabeth
Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“FIF Letter”)
Letter from Larry E. Thompson, Managing Director and General Counsel, The Depository Trust
Clearing Corporation to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“DTCC
Letter”)

Letter from Raymond Tamayo, Chief Information Officer, Options Clearing Corporation to
Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“OCC Letter”)
Letter from Timothy J. Mahoney, CEO, BIDS Trading, L.P., New York, New York to Elizabeth
Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“BIDS Letter”)
Letter from Michael Simon, Secretary, International Securities Exchange, LLC to Elizabeth
Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“ISE Letter”)
Letter from Courtney D. McGuinn, Operations Director, FIX Protocol Ltd., New York, New
York to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“FIX Letter”)
Letter from R.T. Leuchtkafer to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013
(“Leuchtkafer Letter ”)
Letter from Dennis M. Kelleher, President & CEO; Stephen W.Hall, Securities Specialist;
Katelynn O. Bradley, Attorney; and David Frenk, Director of Research; Better Markets, Inc. to
Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“Better Markets Letter”)
Letter from Lev Lesokhin, Executive Vice President, Strategy and Markets, CAST, Inc., New
York, New York to the Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“CAST Letter”)
Letter from Robert J. McCarthy, Director of Regulatory Policy, Wells Fargo Advisors to
Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“Wells Fargo Letter”)
Letter from Marcia E. Asquith, Senior Vice President and Corporate Secretary, FINRA to
Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“FINRA Letter”)
Letter from Dr. Bill Curtis, Director, Consortium for IT Software Quality to Elizabeth Murphy,
Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“CISQ Letter”)
Letter from Howard Meyerson, General Counsel, Liquidnet, Inc., New York, New York to the
Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“Liquidnet Letter”)
Letter from David T. Bellaire, Esq., Executive Vice President and General Counsel, Financial
Services Institute, Washington, District of Columbia to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary,
Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“FSI Letter”)
Letter from Scott C. Goebel, General Counsel, Fidelity Management and Research Co., Boston,
Massachusetts to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“Fidelity
Letter”)
Letter from Joseph Adamczyk, Executive Director, Associate General Counsel, CME Group Inc.
to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“CME Letter”)

741

Letter from Norman M. Reed, Omgeo LLC, New York, New York to Elizabeth Murphy,
Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“Omgeo Letter”)
Letter from David Lauer, Market Structure and Technology Architecture Consultant, Step Ahead
Technologies, LLC to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“Lauer
Letter”)
Letter from Theodore R. Lazo, Managing Director and Associate General Counsel, SIFMA to
Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“SIFMA Letter”)
Letter from Jeffrey Wallis, Managing Partner, SunGard Consulting Services, New York, New
York to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 8, 2013 (“SunGard Letter”)
Letter from Janet McGinness, EVP & Corporate Secretary, NYSE Euronext to Elizabeth
Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 9, 2013 (“NYSE Letter”)
Letter from Eric J. Swanson, Secretary, BATS Global Markets to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary,
Commission, dated July 10, 2013 (“BATS Letter”)
Letter from Mary Ann Burns, Futures Industry Association Principal Traders Group,
Washington, District of Columbia to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 11,
2013 (“FIA PTG Letter”)
Letter from James P. Selway, III, P. Mats Goebels and Sudhanshu Arya, ITG Inc. to Elizabeth
Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 11, 2013 (“ITG Letter”)
Letter from Karrie McMillan, General Counsel, Investment Company Institute to Elizabeth
Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 12, 2013 (“ICI Letter”)
Letter from Stuart J. Kaswell, Executive Vice President & Managing Director, Managed Funds
Association, and Jirí Król, Deputy CEO, Head of Government and Regulatory Affairs,
Alternative Investment Management Association to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission,
dated July 17, 2013 (“MFA Letter”)
Letter from Anthony J. Saliba, Chief Executive Officer, LiquidPoint, LLC to Elizabeth Murphy,
Secretary, Commission, dated July 22, 2013 (“LiquidPoint Letter”)
Letter from Elizabeth K. King, Global Head of Regulatory Affairs, KCG Holdings, Inc., Jersey
City, New Jersey to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 25, 2013 (“KCG
Letter”)
Letter from Roger Anerella, Managing Director, Global Head of Securities Execution Services,
UBS Investment Bank to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 26, 2013 (“UBS
Letter”)

742

Letter from Eric Swanson, SVP, General Counsel and Secretary, BATS Global Markets, Inc., et
al. to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated July 30, 2013 (“Joint SROs Letter”)
Letter from Thomas S. Vales, Chief Executive Officer, TMC Bonds LLC to Elizabeth Murphy,
Secretary, Commission, dated August 6, 2013 (“TMC Bonds Letter”)
Letter from James J. Angel, Ph.D., CFA, Visiting Associate Professor, The Wharton School,
University of Pennsylvania to the Commission, dated September 3, 2013 (“Angel2 Letter”)
Letter from Benjamin R. Londergan, Chief Executive Officer, Group One Trading L.P. to
Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated September 3, 2013 (“Group One Letter”)
Letter from Ari Gabinet, Executive Vice President and General Counsel, OFI Global Asset
Management to Elizabeth Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated September 9, 2013
(“Oppenheimer Letter”)
Letter from Daniel Zinn, General Counsel, OTC Markets Group Inc. to Elizabeth Murphy,
Secretary, Commission, dated September 12, 2013 (“OTC Markets Letter”)
Letter from Dr. Bill Curtis, Director, Consortium for IT Software Quality to Elizabeth Murphy,
Secretary, Commission, dated September 17, 2013 (“CISQ2 Letter”)
Letter from William O’Brien, Chief Executive Officer, Direct Edge Holdings to Elizabeth M.
Murphy, Secretary, Commission, dated September 25, 2013 (“Direct Edge Letter”)
Letter from Richie Prager, Managing Director, Head of Trading & Liquidity Strategies, Hubert
De Jesus, Managing Director, Co-Head of Market Structure & Electronic Trading, Supurna
Vedbrat, Managing Director, Co-Head of Market Structure & Electronic Trading, and Joanne
Medero, Managing Director, Government Relations & Public Policy, BlackRock, Inc. to Mary Jo
White, Chair, Commission, dated September 12, 2014 (“BlackRock Letter”).

743

