UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 76878 / January 12, 2016
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4310 / January 12, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-17046
ORDER INSTITUTING
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
AND SECTION 203(f) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING
REMEDIAL SANCTIONS

In the Matter of
Richard M. Higgins,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(f) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) against Richard M. Higgins (“Respondent”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose
of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to
which the Commission is a party, Respondent admits the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and
the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in Sections III.2 and III.4
below, and consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to
Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, Making Findings, and
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
Higgins, 55 years old, is a resident of Stratham, New Hampshire. He was employed
as a licensed registered representative for two different registered broker-dealers from September
2001 through June 2007, but he has not been associated with a broker dealer since June 2007.
Higgins created and registered with the State of New Hampshire Higgins Equity Partners LLP
(“HEP”) and Higgins Capital Management (“HCM”) in 2007; HEP was dissolved in 2009 and
HCM is currently inactive, each for failure to pay annual fees. Higgins offered and sold partnership
interests in HEP in 2007 but instead deposited investor money in HCM, which was registered by
Higgins in his personal capacity. Neither HEP nor HCM have been registered with the Commission
in any capacity. Through HCM and individually, Higgins provided investment advice regarding
securities to clients for compensation and traded stock on behalf of different brokerage firms’
customers for transaction-based compensation. During the relevant period, Higgins acted as an
unregistered broker-dealer and unregistered investment adviser.
2.
On June 29, 2015, Higgins pled guilty to Sale of Securities Fraud in violation of
New Hampshire Revised Statutes Annotated (“NHRSA”) 421-B:3 and Investment Advisor Fraud
in violation of NHRSA 421-B:4 before the Superior Court of the State of New Hampshire, in State
of New Hampshire v. Richard M. Higgins, No. 217-2015-CR-00484. On August 10, 2015, a
judgment in the criminal case was entered against Higgins. He was sentenced to a minimum prison
term of seven years with a maximum term of fourteen years, with a two-year suspension of the
minimum sentence conditioned upon good behavior. Higgins was ordered to make restitution in
the amount of $624,771.00 plus a 17% statutory administrative fee.
3.
The counts of the criminal information to which Higgins pled guilty alleged, inter
alia, that between 2007 and 2014 Higgins defrauded investors and advisory clients by advising
such persons as to the value of securities or their purchase or sale through the issuance of analyses
or reports and otherwise; by knowingly employing devices, schemes, and artifices to defraud such
investors; and by engaging in acts, practices, and courses of business that operated as a fraud on
such persons. In connection with that plea, Higgins admitted that he sent investors quarterly
statements that falsely overstated the current value of their investment and that they were investing
in HEP, even though HEP no longer existed and even though Higgins had in fact deposited and
was investing in his personal name using HCM.
4.
On August 10, 2015, the State of New Hampshire Bureau of Securities Regulation
(“BSR”) entered a Consent Order against Higgins in an administrative action entitled Richard M.
Higgins (CRD #4450943), No. I-2014-000016. The Consent Order required Higgins
(i) permanently to cease and desist from further violations of the New Hampshire Uniform
Securities Act, (ii) be permanently barred from any securities licensure in any capacity in the State
of New Hampshire, (iii) pay restitution to investors totaling $996,443.42 (which was inclusive of
and to be offset by any restitution made in the criminal case), and (iv) pay a fine of $100,000 and
costs of $25,000 to BSR.

2

5.

In the Consent Order, Higgins admitted that:
a)

He invested other people’s money in securities for a fee and employed
unsuitably risky strategies with their funds, all without disclosing that he
was not registered or licensed as a securities professional in any capacity in
any jurisdiction;

b)

He offered and sold limited partnership interests in HEP, through which
investors believed Higgins was investing their money from 2007 through
2014, when in reality Higgins had deposited their funds in bank and
brokerage accounts in the name of HCM, for which he was the sole
proprietor; and

c)

The HEP Limited Liability Partnership Agreement indicated what Higgins’s
fee would be, but HEP was abandoned in 2007 and Higgins subsequently
never notified any of the investors when fees were taken or how much fees
would be. And from December 2009 through March 2014, while Higgins
was suffering significant investment losses and still taking fees for himself,
Higgins sent fraudulent quarterly statements to investors that showed
inflated gains in their investments despite the fact that he was suffering
significant losses.
IV.

In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Higgins’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act,
and Section 203(f) of the Advisers Act, that Respondent Higgins be, and hereby is barred from
association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal
advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent Higgins be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;

3

and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

4

