(Corrected to Conform to Federal Register Version)
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 240, 242, 249
[Release No. 34-76474; File No. S7-23-15]
RIN 3235-AL66
Regulation of NMS Stock Alternative Trading Systems
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rule.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission is proposing to amend the regulatory
requirements in Regulation ATS under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”)
applicable to alternative trading systems (“ATSs”) that transact in National Market System
(“NMS”) stocks (hereinafter referred to as (“NMS Stock ATSs”), including so called “dark
pools.” First, the Commission is proposing to amend Regulation ATS to adopt Form ATS-N to
provide information about the broker-dealer that operates the NMS Stock ATS (“broker-dealer
operator”) and the activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates in connection with the
NMS Stock ATS, and to provide detailed information about the manner of operations of the ATS
Second, the Commission is proposing to make filings on Form ATS-N public by posting certain
Form ATS-N filings on the Commission’s internet website and requiring each NMS Stock ATS
that has a website to post on the NMS Stock ATS’s website a direct URL hyperlink to the
Commission’s website that contains the required documents. Third, the Commission is proposing
to amend Regulation ATS to provide a process for the Commission to determine whether an
entity qualifies for the exemption from the definition of “exchange” under Exchange Act Rule
3a1-1(a)(2) with regard to NMS stocks and declare an NMS Stock ATS’s Form ATS-N either

effective or, after notice and opportunity for hearing, ineffective. Fourth, under the proposal, the
Commission could suspend, limit, or revoke the exemption from the definition of “exchange”
after providing notice and opportunity for hearing. Fifth, the Commission is proposing to require
that an ATS’s safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information
be written. The Commission is also proposing to make conforming changes to Regulation ATS
and Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a). Additionally, the Commission is requesting comment about,
among other things, changing the requirements of the exemption from the definition of
“exchange” pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a) for ATSs that facilitate transactions in
securities other than NMS stocks. Lastly, the Commission is also requesting comment regarding
its consideration to amend Exchange Act Rules 600 and 606 to improve transparency around the
handling and routing of institutional customer orders by broker-dealers.
DATES: Comments should be received on or before February 26, 2016.
ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:

•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment form (http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed); or

•

Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S7-23-15 on the
subject line; or

•

Use the Federal eRulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.

Paper comments:
•

Send paper comments to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.
2

All submissions should refer to File Number S7-23-15. This file number should be included on
the subject line if e-mail is used. To help the Commission process and review your comments
more efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the
Commission’s Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml). Comments will also
be available for website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100
F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m.
and 3:00 p.m. All comments received will be posted without change; the Commission does not
edit personal identifying information from submissions. You should submit only information
that you wish to make available publicly.
Studies, memoranda, or other substantive items may be added by the Commission or staff
to the comment file during this rulemaking. A notification of the inclusion in the comment file
of any such materials will be made available on the Commission’s website. To ensure direct
electronic receipt of such notifications, sign up through the “Stay Connected” option at
www.sec.gov to receive notifications by e-mail.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Tyler Raimo, Senior Special Counsel, at
(202) 551-6227; Matthew Cursio, Special Counsel, at (202) 551-5748; Marsha Dixon, Special
Counsel, at (202) 551-5782; Jennifer Dodd, Special Counsel, at (202) 551-5653; David Garcia,
Special Counsel, at (202) 551-5681; or Derek James, Special Counsel, at (202) 551-5792; Office
of Market Supervision, Division of Trading and Markets, Securities and Exchange Commission,
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-7010.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
The Commission is proposing: (1) new Form ATS-N under the Exchange Act provided
by Rule 3a1-1(a) of the Exchange Act [17 CFR 240.3a1-1(a)], which NMS Stock ATSs would
3

rely on to qualify for the exemption from the definition of “exchange”; (2) to amend Regulation
ATS under the Exchange Act [17 CFR 242.300 through 242.303] to add new Rule 304 to
provide new conditions for NMS Stock ATSs seeking to rely on the exemption from the
definition of “exchange”; and (3) related amendments to Rule 300, 301, and 303 of Regulation
ATS and Rule 3a1-1(a) under the Exchange Act [17 CFR 242.300; 17 CFR 242.301, 17 CFR
242.303; and 17 CFR 240.3a1-1]. The Commission is also proposing amendments to Rules
301(b)(10) and 303 of Regulation ATS under the Exchange Act [17 CFR 242.301(b)(10) and 17
CFR 242.303] to require all ATSs to make and keep written safeguards and written procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential trading information.
Table of Contents
I.

Introduction

II.

Current ATS Regulatory Framework

A.

Exemption from National Securities Exchange Registration

B.

Conditions to the ATS Exemption; Confidential Notice Regime

III.

Role of ATSs in the Current Equity Market Structure

A.

Significant Source of Liquidity for NMS Stocks

B.

Heightened Operational Complexity and Sophistication of NMS Stock ATSs

C.

Lack of Operational Transparency for NMS Stock ATSs

D.

Prior Comments on Operational Transparency and Regulatory Framework for NMS
Stock ATSs

IV.

Proposed Amendments to Regulation ATS and Rule 3a1-1 to Heighten Regulatory
Requirements for ATSs that Transact in NMS Stocks

4

A.

Proposed Definition of NMS Stock ATS

B.

Rule 3a1-1(a)(2): Proposed Amendments to the Exemption from the Definition of
“Exchange” for NMS Stock ATSs

C.

Proposed Rule 304: Enhanced Filing Requirements for NMS Stock ATSs
1.

Application of Existing Requirements to NMS Stock ATSs

2.

Rule 301(b)(2) and Form ATS; ATSs That Trade in Non-NMS Stocks

3.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(i) and (ii): Filing and Review of Form ATS-N

4.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iii): Declarations of Effectiveness or Ineffectiveness of Form

ATS-N
5.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv): Orders Regarding Form ATS-N Effectiveness

6.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(2): Form ATS-N Amendments

7.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(3): Notice of Cessation

8.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(4): Suspension, Limitation, or Revocation of the Exemption

from the Definition of Exchange
D.

Rule 304(b): Public Disclosure of Form ATS-N and Related Commission Orders

E.

Rule 304(c)(1) and (2): Proposed Form ATS-N Requirements

V.

Proposed Form ATS-N: Submission Type and Part I of Form ATS-N

VI.

Part II of Proposed Form ATS-N: Broker-Dealer Operator Registration Information

VII.

Part III of Proposed Form ATS-N: Activities of the Broker-Dealer Operator and Its
Affiliates

5

A.

The Relationship between the Broker-Dealer Operator’s Operation of the NMS Stock
ATS and Its Other Operations

1.

Background

2.

Potential Conflicts of Interest for the Broker-Dealer Operator or its Affiliates

B.

Disclosures Required under Part III of Proposed Form ATS-N
1.

Proposed Definitions of “Affiliate” and “Control”

2.

Non-ATS Trading Centers of the Broker-Dealer Operator

3.

Multiple NMS Stock ATS Operations of the Broker-Dealer Operator

4.

Products or Services Offered to Subscribers by the Broker-Dealer Operator

5.

Broker-Dealer Operator Arrangements with Unaffiliated Trading Centers

6.

Trading on the NMS Stock ATS by the Broker-Dealer Operator and its Affiliates

7.

Broker-Dealer Operator Smart Order Routers (or Similar Functionalities) and

Algorithms
8.

Shared Employees of NMS Stock ATS

9.

Service Providers to the NMS Stock ATS

10.

Differences in Availability of Services, Functionality, or Procedures

11.

Confidential Treatment of Trading Information

VIII.

Part IV of Proposed Form ATS-N: The Manner of Operations of the NMS Stock ATS

A.

Subscribers

B.

Hours of Operations
6

C.

Types of Orders

D.

Connectivity, Order Entry, and Co-location

E.

Segmentation of Order Flow and Notice About Segmentation

F.

Display of Order and Trading Interest

G.

Trading Services

H.

Suspension of Trading, System Disruption or Malfunction

I.

Opening, Reopening, and Closing Processes, and After Hours Procedures

J.

Outbound Routing

K.

Market Data

L.

Fees

M. Trade Reporting, Clearance and Settlement
N.

Order Display and Execution Access

O.

Fair Access

P.

Market Quality Statistics Published or Provided by the NMS Stock ATS to Subscribers

IX.

Proposed Amendment to Rule 301(b)(10): Written Safeguards and Written Procedures to
Protect Confidential Trading Information

X.

Recordkeeping Requirements

XI.

General Request for Comment

XII.

Paperwork Reduction Act

A.
1.

Summary of Collection of Information
Requirements Relating to Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS
7

2.

Requirements Relating to Proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(viii) and 304 of Regulation ATS,

including Proposed Form ATS-N
B.

Proposed Use of Information
1.

Proposed Amendments to Rules 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS

2.

Proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(viii), 304 of Regulation ATS, Including Proposed Form

ATS-N, and 301(b)(9)
C.

Respondents

D.

Total Initial and Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burdens

1.

Proposed Rules 301(b)(10) and 303(a)(1)(v) of Regulation ATS

2.

Proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(viii) and 304 of Regulation ATS, including Proposed Form

ATS-N
E.

Collection of Information is Mandatory

F.

Confidentiality of Responses to Collection of Information

G.

Retention Period for Recordkeeping Requirements

H.

Request for Comments

XIII.

Economic Analysis

A.

Background

B.

Baseline
1.

Current NMS Stock ATSs

2.

Current Reporting Requirements for NMS Stock ATSs

8

3.

Lack of Public Disclosure of NMS Stock ATS Operations and the Activities of the

Broker-Dealer Operator and the Broker-Dealer Operator’s Affiliates
4.

NMS Stock ATS Treatment of Subscriber Confidential Trading Information

5.

Current State of Competition Between NMS Stock ATSs and Registered National

Securities Exchanges
6.

Competition Among NMS Stock ATSs

7.

Competition Between Broker-Dealers That Operate NMS Stock ATSs and Broker-

Dealers That Do Not Operate NMS Stock ATSs
8.
C.

Effect of NMS Stock ATSs on the Current Market for NMS Stock Execution Services
Economic Effects and Effects on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital Formation

1.

Costs and Benefits of Proposed Enhanced Filing Requirements

2.

Costs and Benefits of Public Disclosures of Proposed Form ATS-N

3.

Written Safeguards and Written Procedures to Protect Subscribers’ Confidential

Trading Information, and Proposed Recordkeeping Requirements
D.

Alternatives

1.

Require NMS Stock ATSs to Publicly Disclose Current Form ATS

2.

Require Proposed Form ATS-N But Deem Information Confidential

3.

Require NMS Stock ATSs to Publicly Disclose Proposed Form ATS-N But Not Declare

Proposed Form ATS-N Effective or Ineffective

9

4.

Initiate Differing Levels of Public Disclosure Depending on NMS Stock ATS

Characteristics
5.

Require NMS Stock ATSs to Register as National Securities Exchanges and Become

SROs
6.

Discontinue Quarterly Volume Reports on Form ATS-R

7.

Require NMS Stock ATSs to Operate as Limited Purpose Entities

8.

Lower the Fair Access Threshold for NMS Stock ATSs

9.

Apply Proposed Rule 304 to ATSs that Trade Fixed Income Securities and ATSs that

Solely Trade Government Securities
XIV. Consideration of Impact on the Economy
XV.

Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification

XVI. Statutory Authority and Text of Proposed Amendments

10

I.

Introduction
Section 11A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act, 1 enacted as part of the Securities Acts

Amendments of 1975 (“1975 Amendments”), 2 directs the Commission, having due regard for the
public interest, the protection of investors, and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, to
use its authority under the Exchange Act to facilitate the establishment of a national market
system for securities in accordance with the Congressional findings and objectives set forth in
Section 11A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act. 3 Among the findings and objectives in Section
11A(a)(1) are that “[n]ew data processing and communications techniques create the opportunity
for more efficient and effective market operations” 4 and “[i]t is in the public interest and
appropriate for the protection of investors and the maintenance of fair and orderly markets to
assure . . . the economically efficient execution of securities transactions” 5 and the “practicability
of brokers executing investors’ orders in the best markets.” 6 Congress also found, as noted by
the Commission when it adopted Regulation ATS, that it was in the public interest to assure
‘‘fair competition . . . between exchange markets and markets other than exchange markets.’’ 7

1

15 U.S.C. 78k-1(a)(2).

2

Pub. L. 94-29, 89 Stat. 97 (1975).

3

15 U.S.C. 78k-1(a)(1).

4

Section 11A(a)(1)(B) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78k-1(a)(1)(B).

5

Section 11A(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78k-1(a)(1)(C)(i).

6

Section 11A(a)(1)(C)(iv) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78k-1(a)(1)(C)(iv).

7

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 40760 (December 8, 1998), 63 FR 70844
(December 22, 1998) (Regulation of Exchanges and Alternative Trading Systems,
hereinafter “Regulation ATS Adopting Release”) at 70858 n.113 and accompanying text
(citing Section 11A(a)(1)(C)(ii) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78k-1(a)(1)(C)(ii)). The
Commission also noted that a fundamental goal of a national market system was to
“achieve a market characterized by economically efficient executions, fair competition,

11

Congress recognized that the securities markets dynamically change and, accordingly, granted
the Commission broad authority to oversee the implementation, operation, and regulation of the
national market system in accordance with Congressional goals and objectives. 8
In December 1998, the Commission adopted Regulation ATS to advance the goals of the
national market system and establish a regulatory framework for ATSs. 9 At that time, there had
been a surge in a variety of alternative trading systems that traded NMS stocks and furnished
services traditionally provided by national securities exchanges, 10 such as matching
counterparties’ orders, executing trades, operating limit order books, and facilitating active price
discovery. 11 The Commission observed at the time that, among other things, activity on ATSs
was not fully disclosed, or accessible, to investors, and that these systems had no obligation to
provide investors a fair opportunity to participate on the systems or to treat their participants
fairly. 12 The Commission noted in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release that while ATSs at
that time operated in a manner similar to registered national securities exchanges, each type of
trading center was subject to different regulatory regimes, and that these differences created

[and the] broad dissemination of basic market information.” See id. at 70858 n.113
(quoting S. Rep. No. 75, 94th Cong., 1st Sess. 8 (1975) at 101).
8

See id. at 70858 n.110 and accompanying text (citing S. Rep. No. 75, 94th Cong., 1st
Sess. 8 (1975) at 8-9). The Commission also noted that Congress explicitly rejected
mandating specific components of a national market system because of uncertainty as to
how technological and economic changes would affect the securities market. See id. at
70858 n.109 and accompanying text (citing S. Rep. No. 75, 94th Cong., 1st Sess. 8
(1975) at 8-9).

9

See generally Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7.

10

See id. at 70845.

11

See id. at 70848.

12

See id. at 70845.

12

disparities that affected investor protection and the operation of the markets as a whole, calling
into question the fairness of the then-current regulatory requirements. 13
In response to the substantial changes in the way securities were traded at the time, and
the regulatory disparity between registered national securities exchanges and non-exchange
markets, the Commission adopted a new regulatory framework that the Commission believed
would encourage market innovation, while ensuring basic investor protections, 14 by giving
securities markets a choice to register as national securities exchanges, or to register as brokerdealers and comply with Regulation ATS. Regulation ATS was designed to permit market
centers meeting the Commission’s updated interpretation of the definition of “exchange,” as set
forth in Exchange Act Rule 3b-16, 15 to select the regulatory framework more applicable to their
business models. Among other things, Regulation ATS was intended to better integrate ATSs
into the national market system, and ensure that market participants have fair access to ATSs
with significant volume. 16
In the seventeen years since the Commission adopted Regulation ATS, the equity
markets have evolved significantly, resulting in an increased number of trading centers and a

13

See id. at 70845-46 (noting that alternative trading systems prior to the adoption of
Regulation ATS were private markets, which were open to only chosen subscribers, and
were regulated as broker-dealers and not like registered national securities exchanges).

14

See id. at 70847.

15

17 CFR 240.3b-16.

16

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70846, 70874. The Commission
also notes that when it adopted Regulation ATS, it stated its belief that the Commission’s
regulation of markets should both accommodate traditional market structures and provide
sufficient flexibility to ensure that new markets promote fairness, efficiency, and
transparency. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70846.

13

reduced concentration of trading activity in NMS stocks. 17 The growth in trading centers and
trading activity has been fueled primarily by advances in technology for generating, routing, and
executing orders. These technologies have markedly improved the speed, capacity, and
sophistication of the trading mechanisms and processes that are available to market participants.
Today, ATSs that trade NMS stocks have become an integral part of the national market system,
as the number of these ATSs, and the volume of NMS stocks transacted on them, has increased
significantly since the adoption of Regulation ATS. 18 Despite the emergence of ATSs as a
significant source of liquidity in NMS stocks among today’s markets, and the fact that ATSs
compete with, and operate with almost the same complexity and sophistication as, registered
national securities exchanges, the regulatory requirements applicable to ATSs have remained, for
the most part, the same since Regulation ATS was adopted. 19

17

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 73639 (November 19, 2014), 79 FR 72251
(December 5, 2014), 72262 (adopting final rules for systems compliance and integrity)
(“SCI Adopting Release”) at 72262 n.105 and n.106 and accompanying text (discussing
the increased significance of NMS Stock ATSs).

18

See infra notes 116-122 and accompanying text.

19

The Commission notes that when the Commission adopted Regulation NMS, it also
amended Regulation ATS to lower the threshold that triggers the Regulation ATS fair
access requirements from 20% of the average daily volume in a security to 5%. See
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 51808 (June 9, 2005), 70 FR 37496, 37550 (June
29, 2005) (“Regulation NMS Adopting Release”). See also infra notes 92-95 and
accompanying text (discussing the fair access requirements of Regulation ATS).
When adopting Regulation ATS, the Commission noted that the 20% volume threshold
was based on current market conditions, and that if such conditions changed, or if the
Commission believed that alternative trading systems with less than 20% of the trading
volume were engaging in inappropriate exclusionary practices or in anticompetitive
conduct, the Commission could revisit the fair access thresholds. See Regulation ATS
Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70873 n.245. The Commission also stated its intent to
monitor the impact and effect of the fair access rules, as well as the practices of ATSs,
and consider changing the rules if necessary to prevent anticompetitive behavior and

14

Although ATSs and registered national securities exchanges generally operate in a
similar manner and compete as trading centers for order flow in NMS stocks, each of these types
of trading centers is subject to a separate regulatory regime with a different mix of benefits and
obligations, including with respect to their obligations to disclose information about their trading
operations. Unlike ATSs, national securities exchanges must register with the Commission
pursuant to Section 6 of the Exchange Act, 20 and undertake self-regulatory21 obligations over
their members. Before a national securities exchange may commence operations, the
Commission must approve the national securities exchange’s application for registration filed on
Form 1. Section 6(b) of the Exchange Act requires, among other things, that the national
securities exchange be so organized and have the capacity to carry out the purposes of the
Exchange Act and to comply and enforce compliance by its members, and persons associated
with its members, with the federal securities laws and the rules of the exchange. 22 Both a
national securities exchange’s registration application and the Commission’s order approving the
application are public. After registering, a national securities exchange must file with the

ensure that qualified investors have access to significant sources of liquidity in the
securities markets. See id.
See also infra note 107 and accompanying text (discussing amendments to Regulation
ATS in connection with the adoption of Regulation SCI).
20

15 U.S.C. 78f.

21

Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act defines a self-regulatory organization (“SRO”) as
any national securities exchange, registered securities association, registered clearing
agency, or (with limitations) the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board. See 15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(26).

22

See Section 6(b)(1) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1). The Commission must
also find that the national securities exchange has rules that meet certain criteria. See
generally Exchange Act Section 6(b)(2) through (10), 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(2) through (10).

15

Commission any proposed changes to its rules. 23 The initial application on Form 1, amendments
thereto, and filings for proposed rule changes, in combination, publicly disclose important
information about national securities exchanges, such as trading services and fees. As an SRO, a
national securities exchange enjoys certain unique benefits, such as limited immunity from
private liability with respect to its regulatory functions and the ability to receive market data
revenue, among others.
Although falling within the statutory definition of “exchange,” an ATS is exempt from
that definition if it complies with Regulation ATS. Regulation ATS includes the requirement
that, as an alternative to registering as a national securities exchange, an ATS must register as a
broker-dealer with the Commission, which entails becoming a member of an SRO, such as the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”). 24 Unlike national securities exchanges,
ATSs are not approved by the Commission, but are instead required only to provide notice of
their operations by filing a Form ATS with the Commission 20 days before commencing
operations as an ATS. 25 Form ATS is “deemed confidential when filed,” 26 and it only requires
an ATS to disclose limited aspects of the ATS’s operations. ATSs are neither required to file
proposed rule changes with the Commission nor otherwise publicly disclose their trading
services, operations, or fees.

23

See generally Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b).

24

Section 15(b)(8) of the Exchange Act requires a broker or dealer to become a member of
a registered national securities association, unless it effects transactions in securities
solely on an exchange of which it is a member. 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(8).

25

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70863 and infra Section II.B
(discussing the current requirements of Regulation ATS applicable to all ATSs).

26

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii).

16

The Commission is concerned that the current regulatory requirements relating to
operational transparency for ATSs, particularly those that execute trades in NMS stocks, may no
longer fully meet the goals of furthering the public interest and protecting investors. Today,
ATSs account for approximately 15.4% of the total dollar volume in NMS stocks27 and as noted,
compete with, and operate with respect to trading in a manner similar to, registered national
securities exchanges. Unlike registered national securities exchanges, however, there is limited
public information available to market participants about the operations of ATSs, including how
orders and other trading interest may interact, match, and execute on ATSs. The Commission is
concerned that the differences between ATSs that trade NMS stocks and registered national
securities exchanges with regard to operational transparency may be creating a competitive
imbalance between two functionally similar trading centers that may trade the same security but
are subject to different regulatory requirements. The Commission is also concerned that this
difference in operational transparency disadvantages market participants by limiting their ability
to adequately assess the relative merits of many trading centers. 28 Specifically, the Commission
is concerned that the lack of operational transparency around ATSs limits market participants’
ability to adequately discern how their orders interact, match, and execute on ATSs and to find
the optimal market or markets for their orders.
The Commission is also concerned about the current lack of transparency around

27

See infra Table 1 “NMS Stock ATSs Ranked by Dollar Trading Volume – March 30,
2015 to June 26, 2015.” Total dollar trading volume on all exchanges and off-exchange
trading in the second quarter of 2015 was approximately $16.3 trillion and approximately
397 billion shares. See id.

28

Market participants may include many different types of persons seeking to transact in
NMS stocks, including broker-dealers and institutional or retail investors.

17

potential conflicts of interest that arise from the activities of the broker-dealer operator of the
NMS Stock ATS and its affiliates 29 in connection with the ATS. As discussed herein, an ATS
must register as a broker-dealer pursuant to Rule 301(b)(1) of Regulation ATS. This brokerdealer operator, its affiliates, or both, however, may also conduct brokerage or dealing activities
in NMS stocks in addition to operating the ATS. 30 Broker-dealer operators may also have
affiliates that support the operations of the ATS or trade on it. The Commission notes that these
multi-service broker-dealers that engage in brokerage and dealing activities, in addition to the
operation of their ATSs, have become more prevalent since the adoption of Regulation ATS and
the other services multi-service broker-dealers provide have become increasingly intertwined
with the operation of their ATSs. Given the unique position that the broker-dealer operator and
its affiliates occupy with regard to the operation of an ATS, potential conflicts of interest arise
when the various business interests of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates compete with the
interests of market participants that access and trade on the ATS. 31 Some of the recent settled

29

The Commission is proposing to define “affiliate” for purposes of proposed Form ATS-N
as described and discussed further below. See infra note 378 and accompanying text.
See also Instruction G to proposed Form ATS-N.

30

Throughout this release, broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs that also provide
brokerage or dealing services in addition to operating an NMS Stock ATS are referred to
as “multi-service broker-dealers”.

31

See infra Section VII.A (discussing the relationship between NMS Stock ATSs and the
other business functions of their broker-dealer operators). The Commission notes that,
although it was concerned at the time of adoption of Regulation ATS about conflicts of
interest that may be present when the broker-dealer operator of an ATS also performs
other trading functions (see infra notes 530-532 and accompanying text discussing the
Commission’s concerns regarding the potential for misuse of confidential trading
information that led to the adoption of Rule 301(b)(10)), the business structure of brokerdealers that operate NMS Stock ATSs has changed since 1998.

18

actions against ATSs highlight this potential. 32 As discussed further below, although the
operations of most ATSs and their broker-dealer operators have become more closely connected,
market participants receive limited information about the activities of the broker-dealer operator
and its affiliates and the potential conflicts of interest that arise from these activities.
Transparency is a hallmark of the U.S. securities markets and a primary tool by which
investors protect their own interests, and the Commission is concerned that the current lack of
transparency around potential conflicts of interest of the broker-dealer operator may impede
market participants from adequately protecting their interests when doing business on the NMS
Stock ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that if market participants have more
information about the operations of NMS Stock ATSs and the activities of the broker-dealer
operators and the broker-dealer operators’ affiliates, they could better evaluate whether to do
business with an ATS and make more informed decisions about where to route their orders.33
The Commission has long recognized that effective competition requires transparency
and access across the national market system. 34 The Commission preliminarily believes that the
proposals discussed below could promote more efficient and effective market operations by

32

See infra note 375 and accompanying text.

33

See, e.g., infra notes 187 and 189 and accompanying text (discussing a comment by the
Consumer Federation of America about how more detailed information about ATS
operations would allow participants to assess whether it makes sense to trade on that
venue, and a comment by Bloomberg Tradebook LLC that because buy-side
representatives might not be customers of all ATSs, they could not assess order
interaction that occurs across the market structure); and infra note 374 (citing recent
enforcement actions settled by the Commission, many of which, such as the Liquidnet
Settlement, the Pipeline Settlement, the UBS Settlement, and the ITG Settlement,
included allegations that subscribers were fraudulently misled about the operations of
certain ATSs).

34

See generally Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7.

19

providing more transparency to market participants about the operations of ATSs and the
potential conflicts of interest of the controlling broker-dealer operator and its affiliates. 35 The
Commission preliminarily believes that the operational transparency rules being proposed today
could increase competition among trading centers in regard to order routing and execution
quality. For example, the proposed rules could reveal order interaction procedures that may
result in the differential treatment of some order types handled by an NMS Stock ATS. This
improved visibility, in turn, could cause market participants to shift order flow to NMS Stock
ATSs that provide better opportunities for executions. The Commission preliminarily believes
that the proposal could facilitate comparisons among trading centers in NMS stocks and increase
competition by informing market participants about the operations of NMS Stock ATSs.
The Commission preliminarily believes that a wide range of market participants would
benefit from the operational transparency that would result from the proposal. For example,
many brokers subscribe to NMS Stock ATSs and route their orders, and those of their customers,
to NMS Stock ATSs for execution. The Commission preliminarily believes that improved
transparency about the operations of NMS Stock ATSs could aid brokers with meeting their best
execution obligations to their customers, as they can better assess the trading venues to which

35

See infra Sections XIII.B and C (analyzing the possible impact from the current lack of
public disclosure of NMS Stock ATSs’ operations, as well as disparate levels of
information available to market participants about NMS Stock ATS operations and the
activities of their broker-dealer operators and their affiliates; the competitive environment
between national securities exchanges and NMS Stock ATSs, between NMS Stock ATSs,
and between broker-dealers that operate NMS Stock ATSs and broker-dealers that do not
operate NMS Stock ATSs; and the anticipated costs and benefits of improving
transparency).

20

they route orders. 36 The duty of best execution requires broker-dealers to execute customers’
trades at the most favorable terms reasonably available under the circumstances (i.e., at the best
reasonably available price). 37 The Commission has not viewed the duty of best execution as
inconsistent with the automated routing of orders or requiring automated routing on an order-byorder basis to the market with the best quoted price at the time. 38 Rather, the duty of best
execution requires broker-dealers to periodically assess the quality of competing markets to

36

See, e.g., infra note 187 and accompanying text (noting that The Consumer Federation of
America previously commented that Form ATS should require ATSs to provide “critical
details about an ATS’s participants, segmentation, and fee structure” because the
“information will allow market participants, regulators, and third party analysts to assess
whether an ATS’s terms of access and service are such that it makes sense to trade on
that venue”).

37

A broker-dealer’s duty of best execution derives from common law agency principles and
fiduciary obligations, and is incorporated in SRO rules and, through judicial and
Commission decisions, in the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws. See
Order Execution Obligations, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 37619A (Sept. 6,
1996), 61 FR 48290, 48322 (Sept. 12, 1996). See also Newton v. Merrill, Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith, Inc., 135 F.3d 266, 270, 273 (3d Cir. 1998) (en banc), cert. denied, 525
U.S. 811 (1998) (finding that failure to satisfy the duty of best execution can constitute
fraud because a broker-dealer, in agreeing to execute a customer’s order, makes an
implied representation that it will execute it in a manner that maximizes the customer’s
economic gain in the transaction, and stating that‘‘[T]he basis for the duty of best
execution is the mutual understanding that the client is engaging in the trade—and
retaining the services of the broker as his agent—solely for the purpose of maximizing
his own economic benefit, and that the broker receives her compensation because she
assists the client in reaching that goal.’’); Matter of Marc N. Geman, Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 43963 (Feb. 14, 2001), aff’d, Geman v. SEC, 334 F.3d 1183 (10th Cir.
2003) (citing Newton, but deciding against finding a violation of the duty of best
execution based on the record). See also Payment for Order Flow, Securities Exchange
Act Release No. 34902 (Oct. 27, 1994), 59 FR 55006, 55009 (Nov. 2, 1994). If the
broker-dealer intends not to act in a manner that maximizes the customer’s economic
gain when he accepts the order and does not disclose this to the customer, a trier of fact
could find that the broker-dealer’s implied representation was false. See Newton, 135
F.3d at 273–274.

38

See Regulation NMS Adopting Release, supra note 19, at 37538.

21

assure that order flow is directed to the markets providing the most beneficial terms for their
customer orders.39
In addition, the Commission preliminarily believes that the proposal could also help
customers of broker-dealers, whose orders are routed to an NMS Stock ATS for possible
execution in the ATS, evaluate whether their broker-dealer fulfilled its duty of best-execution.
The Commission preliminarily believes that institutional investors, who may subscribe to an
NMS Stock ATS or whose orders may be routed to an NMS Stock ATS by their brokers, should
have more information about how NMS Stock ATSs operate, including how the ATS may match
and execute customer orders.40 The Commission preliminarily believes that additional
information about how NMS Stock ATSs operate could aid these investors in evaluating the
routing decisions of their brokers and understanding whether their broker routed their orders to a
39

Id.

40

See, e.g., Consumer Federation of America letter, infra note 175, at 22, 37-38 (expressing
support for requiring all ATSs to publicly disclose Form ATS “so that the public can see
how these venues operate,” and opining that the Commission should “undertake an
exhaustive investigation of the current order types, requiring exchanges and all ATSs . . .
to disclose in easily understandable terms what their purpose is, how they are used in
practice, who is using them, and why they are not discriminatory or resulting in undue
benefit or harm to any traders”); Citadel letter, infra note 214, at 4 (expressing the view
that “dark pools should be subject to increased transparency,” and that “ATS operational
information and filings should be publicly available”); KOR Group letter, infra note 175,
at 12 (opining that the fact that “ATS filings are hidden from the public while the burden
is on SROs to file publicly . . . does not serve the public interest in any way” and that
there “should not be any reasoned argument against” making Form ATS publicly
available); Liquidnet letter #1, infra note 166, at D-5-6, -11 (stating that the Commission
should require institutional brokers, including institutional ATSs, to disclose to their
customers specific order handling practices, including identification of external venues to
which the broker routes orders, the process for crossing orders with other orders,
execution of orders as agent and principal, a detailed description of the operation and
function of each ATS or trading desk operated by the broker, and a clear and detailed
description of each algorithm and order type offered by the broker and expressing the
view that Form ATS should be made publicly available).

22

trading venue that best fits their needs. To illustrate this point, institutional investors would
likely find it useful to know whether an NMS Stock ATS provides execution priority to customer
order flow, uses strict price-time priority rules to rank and execute orders, or applies certain
execution allocation methodologies for institutional orders. Such information could permit an
institutional investor to compare NMS Stock ATSs against each other, as well as against national
securities exchanges, to determine which trading centers would best fit its needs. Additionally,
there may be market participants, who may not currently subscribe to an NMS Stock ATS, that
may wish to obtain information about how a particular NMS Stock ATS operates before sending
orders to that trading venue.
This proposal is primarily designed to provide market participants with greater
transparency around the operations of NMS Stock ATSs and potential conflicts of interest that
may arise involving the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates. The proposed rules would
require public, detailed information to be disclosed about the activities of the broker-dealer
operator and its affiliates in connection with the NMS Stock ATS, including: their operation of
non-ATS trading centers and other NMS Stock ATSs; the products and services offered to
subscribers; any arrangements with unaffiliated trading centers; trading activities on the NMS
Stock ATS of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates; the use of smart order routers (“SORs”)
(or similar functionality) and algorithms used to send or receive orders or other trading interest to
or from the NMS Stock ATS; shared employees of the NMS Stock ATS and third parties used to
operate the NMS Stock ATS; any differences in the availability of services, functionalities, or
procedures to subscribers and the availability of those services, functionalities, or procedures to
the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates; and the NMS Stock ATS’s safeguards and procedures
to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information. Form ATS-N would also require
23

detailed information about the operations of the NMS Stock ATS, including: any eligibility
requirements and any terms and conditions imposed for subscribers; the NMS Stock ATS’s
hours of operation; the types of orders or other trading interest that can be entered on the NMS
Stock ATS; any connectivity, order entry, and co-location procedures or services; the
segmentation of order flow (and notice given about segmentation); the display of order and other
trading interest; trading services, including matching methodologies, order interaction rules, and
order handling and execution procedures; procedures governing the suspension of trading and
trading during a system disruption or malfunction; opening, re-opening, closing, and after hours
processes or trading procedures; any outbound routing services; the NMS Stock ATS’s use of
market data; fees, rebates, or other charges of the NMS Stock ATS; any trade reporting,
clearance or settlement arrangements or procedures; order display and execution access and fair
access information (if applicable); and market quality statistics published or provided to one or
more subscribers. The Commission preliminarily believes that greater transparency in this
regard would provide important information to market participants so they can evaluate whether
submitting order flow to a particular NMS Stock ATS aligns with their trading or investment
objectives. Among other things, these enhanced, public disclosures also are designed to limit the
potential that a broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS could provide certain subscribers
with greater disclosure about the operations and system functionalities of the ATS than it
provides to other market participants.
The Commission also preliminarily believes that proposing a process for the Commission
to determine whether an NMS Stock ATS qualifies for the exemption from the Exchange Act
definition of “exchange” would facilitate better Commission oversight of NMS Stock ATSs and

24

thus, better protection of investors.41 The proposed process would provide the Commission with
an opportunity to review disclosures on Form ATS-N for compliance with the Form ATS-N
requirements, Regulation ATS, and other applicable requirements of the federal securities laws
and regulations. To qualify for the exemption from the Exchange Act definition of “exchange,”
an NMS Stock ATS would be required to file with the Commission a Form ATS-N, in
accordance with the instructions therein, and the Form ATS-N would need to be declared
effective by the Commission. The Commission would declare ineffective a Form ATS-N if it
finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is necessary or appropriate in the
public interest and is consistent with the protection of investors.42 If the Commission declares a
Form ATS-N ineffective, the NMS Stock ATS would be prohibited from operating as an NMS
Stock ATS,43 but would not be prohibited from subsequently filing a new Form ATS-N. The
Commission also preliminarily believes that proposing a process for the Commission to review
and declare ineffective Form ATS-N Amendments, if it finds that such action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest and is consistent with the protection of investors, would aid the
Commission’s ongoing oversight of NMS Stock ATSs. 44
In this light, the Commission is proposing to amend Regulation ATS, including as
follows: (1) define in proposed Rule 300(k) of Regulation ATS the term NMS Stock ATS,
41

See proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(i). See also infra Section IV.C (discussing the proposed
process for Commission review of Form ATS-N and circumstances under which an NMS
Stock ATS may not qualify for the exemption, as well as the benefits that the process
should provide to market participants).

42

See proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iii).

43

See proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv).

44

See infra Section IV.C (discussing the proposed process for Commission review of
amendments). See also proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(ii).

25

amend the definition of “control” under current Rule 300(f) of Regulation ATS to specify that
control means to direct the management or policies of the broker-dealer of an ATS, and amend
the exemption from the definition of “exchange” in Rule 3a1-1(a) to require NMS Stock ATSs to
comply with proposed Rule 304 (in addition to the other requirements of Regulation ATS) as a
condition of the exemption; (2) amend Rule 301(b)(2) to require NMS Stock ATSs to file the
reports and amendments mandated by proposed Rule 304, which would include filing proposed
Form ATS-N, in lieu of current Form ATS, to provide detailed disclosures about an NMS Stock
ATS’s operations and the activities of its broker-dealer operator and its affiliates and amend Rule
301(b)(2) to require an ATS that effects transactions in both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks to
file the reports and amendments mandated by proposed Rule 304 for its NMS stock trading
activity and the reports and amendments required under current Rule 301(b)(2) of Regulation
ATS for its non-NMS stock trading activity; (3) amend Rule 301(b)(9) to require an ATS that
trades both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks to separately report its transactions in NMS stocks
on one Form ATS-R, and its transactions in securities other than NMS stocks on another Form
ATS-R; (4) provide a process for the Commission, pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(1), to
declare a Form ATS-N effective or, after notice and opportunity for hearing, ineffective; (5)
establish the requirements for amending Form ATS-N pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(2); (6)
provide, pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(3), that a notice of cessation shall cause the Form
ATS-N to be ineffective on the date designated by the NMS Stock ATS; (7) provide a process
for the Commission, pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(4), to suspend, limit, or revoke the
exemption of an NMS Stock ATS’s Form ATS-N upon notice and after opportunity for hearing;
(8) provide that the Commission, pursuant to proposed Rule 304(b), will publicly post on its
website: each effective Form ATS-N, each properly filed Form ATS-N Amendment, and each
26

properly filed Form ATS-N notice of cessation, as well as each order of effectiveness or
ineffectiveness of a Form ATS-N, order of ineffectiveness of a Form ATS-N Amendment, and
order suspending, limiting, or revoking an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption, issued by the
Commission; and also require each NMS Stock ATS that has a website to post on the NMS
Stock ATS’s website a direct URL hyperlink to the Commission’s website that contains the
documents enumerated in proposed Rule 304(b)(2); (9) amend existing Rule 301(b)(10) of
Regulation ATS to require all ATSs to adopt written safeguards and written procedures to protect
subscribers’ confidential trading information, as well as written oversight procedures to ensure
those safeguards and procedures are followed; and (10) amend Rule 303(a) to require that the
written safeguards and written procedures required by proposed Rule 301(b)(10) and reports
pursuant to proposed Rule 304 be preserved.

27

II.

Current ATS Regulatory Framework
A. Exemption from National Securities Exchange Registration
A fundamental component of the current ATS regulatory framework adopted by the

Commission in 1998 is Exchange Act Rule 3b-16. 45 Rule 3b-16 was designed to address the
blurring of traditional classifications between exchanges and broker-dealers as a result of
advances in technology by providing a more comprehensive and meaningful interpretation of
what constitutes an exchange under Section 3(a) of the Exchange Act. 46 Rule 3b-16(a) provides
a functional test to assess whether a trading platform meets the definition of exchange under
Section 3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, and thus is required to register as a national securities
exchange pursuant to Sections 5 and 6 of the Exchange Act. 47 Under Rule 3b-16, an
organization, association, or group of persons shall be considered to constitute, maintain, or
provide “a market place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of securities or
for otherwise performing with respect to securities the functions commonly performed by a stock
exchange,” if such organization, association, or group of persons: (1) brings together the orders
for securities of multiple buyers and sellers; and (2) uses established, non-discretionary methods

45

See 17 CFR 240.3b-16.

46

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70847. Pursuant to Section
3(a)(1) of the Exchange Act, the statutory definition of “exchange” means “any
organization, association, or group of persons, whether incorporated or unincorporated,
which constitutes, maintains, or provides a market place or facilities for bringing together
purchasers and sellers of securities or for otherwise performing with respect to securities
the functions commonly performed by a stock exchange….” 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(1).

47

See 15 U.S.C. 78e and 78f. A “national securities exchange” is an exchange registered as
such under Section 6 of the Exchange Act.

28

(whether by providing a trading facility or by setting rules) under which such orders interact with
each other, and the buyers and sellers entering such orders agree to the terms of a trade. 48
The Commission adopted Exchange Act Rule 3b-16(b) to explicitly exclude certain
systems that the Commission believed did not meet the exchange definition. 49 Specifically, Rule
3b-16(b) excludes systems that perform only traditional broker-dealer activities, including: (1)
systems that route orders to a national securities exchange, a market operated by a national
securities association, or a broker-dealer for execution, or (2) systems that allow persons to enter
orders for execution against the bids and offers of a single dealer if certain additional conditions
are met.50 Accordingly, a system is not included in the Commission’s interpretation of
“exchange” if: (1) the system fails to meet the two-part test in paragraph (a) of Rule 3b-16; (2)
the system falls within one of the exclusions in paragraph (b) of Rule 3b-16; or (3) the
48

See 17 CFR 240.3b-16(a).

49

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70852.

50

See 17 CFR 240.3b-16(b). Rule 3b-16(b)(2) excludes systems that allow persons to enter
orders for execution against the bids and offers of a single dealer if, as an incidental part
of such activities, the system matches orders that are not displayed to any person other
than the dealer and its employees; or in the course of acting as a registered market maker
with an SRO, the system displays the limit orders of the market maker’s, or other brokerdealer’s, customers, and in addition, matches customer orders with those displayed limit
orders and, as an incidental part of its market making activities, the system crosses or
matches orders that are not displayed to any person other than the market maker and its
employees. See 17 CFR 240.3b-16(b)(2). The purpose of the exclusions in 17 CFR
240.3b-16(b)(2) was to encompass systems operated by third market makers, as well as
those systems operated by dealers, primarily in debt securities, who display their own
quotations to customers and other broker-dealers on a proprietary basis. Rule 3b16(b)(2)(ii) was adopted to exclude registered market makers that display their own
quotes and, in order to comply with a Commission or SRO rule, customer limit orders,
and allow their customers and other broker-dealers to enter orders of execution against
the displayed orders. Additionally, it was designed to allow registered market makers, as
an incidental activity resulting from their market maker status, to match or cross orders
for securities in which they make a market, even if those orders are not displayed. See
Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70854.

29

Commission otherwise conditionally or unconditionally exempts 51 the system from the
definition.
For those systems that meet the criteria of Rule 3b-16(a) and are not excluded under Rule
3b-16(b) of the Exchange Act, 52 Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) 53 provides an exemption from the definition of
“exchange.” Specifically, Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exempts from the Exchange Act
Section 3(a)(1) definition of “exchange” an organization, association, or group of persons that
complies with Regulation ATS, 54 which includes, among other things, the requirement to register
as a broker-dealer. 55 Therefore, an organization, association, or group of persons that complies
with Regulation ATS is not subject to Section 5 of the Exchange Act, 56 which requires that an
“exchange” register with the Commission as a national securities exchange pursuant to Section 6
of the Exchange Act 57 or otherwise be exempt. Additionally, an ATS that is not required to
register as a national securities exchange pursuant to Section 5 is not an SRO 58 and is not
required to comply with applicable requirements. 59

51

See 17 CFR 240.3b-16(e).

52

See 17 CFR 240.3b-16(b).

53

See 17 CFR 240.3a1-1(a)(2).

54

See 17 CFR 240.3a1-1(a)(2). Rule 3a1-1 also provides two other exemptions from the
definition of “exchange” for any ATS operated by a national securities association and
any ATS not required to comply with Regulation ATS pursuant to Rule 301(a) of
Regulation ATS. See 17 CFR 240.3a1-1(a)(1) and (3).

55

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(1).

56

15 U.S.C. 78e.

57

15 U.S.C. 78f.

58

See supra note 21 (setting forth the statutory definition of SRO).

59

See, e.g., Section 19 of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s.

30

To satisfy the requirements of the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption, a system that otherwise
meets the definition of an “exchange” must comply with Regulation ATS. An ATS that fails to
comply with the requirements of Regulation ATS would no longer qualify for the exemption
from the definition of an “exchange” provided under Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2), and thus,
risks operating as an unregistered exchange in violation of Section 5 of the Exchange Act. 60
B. Conditions to the ATS Exemption; Confidential Notice Regime
Rule 300(a) of Regulation ATS defines an ATS as: “any organization, association,
person, group of persons, or system: (1) [t]hat constitutes, maintains, or provides a market place
or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of securities or for otherwise performing
with respect to securities the functions commonly performed by a stock exchange within the
meaning of [Rule 3b-16]; and (2) [t]hat does not: (i) [s]et rules governing the conduct of
subscribers other than the conduct of such subscribers’ trading on such organization, association,
person, group of persons, or system; or (ii) [d]iscipline subscribers other than by exclusion from
trading.” 61 Governing the conduct of or disciplining subscribers are functions performed by an
SRO that the Commission believes should be regulated as such. 62 Accordingly, pursuant to the

60

See 15 U.S.C. 78e.

61

See 17 CFR 242.300(a).

62

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70859. As the Commission
noted when it adopted Regulation ATS, the Commission believes that any system that
uses its market power to regulate its participants should be regulated as an SRO. The
Commission noted that it would consider a trading system to be “governing the conduct
of subscribers” outside the trading system if it imposed on subscribers, as conditions of
participation in trading, any requirements for which the trading system had to examine
subscribers for compliance. In addition, the Commission stated its belief that if a trading
system imposed as conditions of participation, directly or indirectly, restrictions on
subscribers’ activities outside of the trading system, such a trading system should be a
registered exchange or operated by a national securities association, but that the

31

definition in Rule 300(a), a trading system that performs SRO functions, or performs functions
common to national securities exchanges, such as establishing listing standards, is precluded
from the definition of ATS and would be required to register as a national securities exchange or
be operated by a national securities association (or seek another exemption). 63
Rule 301(b)(1) of Regulation ATS requires that every ATS that is subject to Regulation
ATS, pursuant to paragraph (a) of Rule 301, 64 be registered as a broker-dealer under Section 15
of the Exchange Act, 65 and thus become a member of an SRO, such as FINRA. 66 In the
Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission stated that an ATS that registers as a brokerdealer must, in addition to complying with Regulation ATS, comply with the filing and conduct

limitation would not preclude an alternative trading system from imposing credit
conditions on subscribers or requiring subscribers to submit financial information to the
alternative trading system. See id.
63

See id.

64

Pursuant to Rule 301(a), certain ATSs that are subject to other appropriate regulations are
not required to comply with Regulation ATS. These ATSs include those that are:
registered as an exchange under Section 6 of the Exchange Act; exempt from exchange
registration based on the limited volume of transactions effected; operated by a national
securities association; registered as a broker-dealer under Sections 15(b) or 15C of the
Exchange Act, or is a bank, that limits its activities to certain instruments; or exempted,
conditionally or unconditionally, by Commission order, after application by such
alternative trading system. See 17 CFR 242.301(a). For example, an ATS that is
registered as a broker-dealer, or is a bank, and limits its securities activities solely to
government securities is not required to comply with Regulation ATS. See 17 CFR
242.301(a)(4).

65

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(1).

66

See Section 15(b)(8) of the Exchange Act; 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(8). See also supra 24 note
and infra note 295 and accompanying text (setting forth the requirements of Section
15(b)(8) of the Exchange Act).

32

obligations associated with being a registered broker-dealer, including membership in an SRO
and compliance with SRO rules. 67
In addition, Rule 301(b)(2) of Regulation ATS requires an ATS to file an initial operation
report with the Commission on Form ATS 68 at least 20 days before commencing operations. 69
The Commission stated in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release that Form ATS would provide
the Commission the opportunity to identify problems that might impact investors before the
system begins to operate. 70 Unlike a Form 1 filed by a national securities exchange, Form ATS
is not approved by the Commission. Instead, Form ATS provides the Commission with notice
about its operations prior to commencing operations. 71
Form ATS requires, among other things, that an ATS provide information about: classes
of subscribers and differences in access to the services offered by the ATS to different groups or
classes of subscribers; securities the ATS expects to trade; any entity other than the ATS
involved in its operations; the manner in which the system operates; how subscribers access the
trading system; procedures governing order entry and execution; and trade reporting, clearance
and settlement of trades on the ATS. Regulation ATS states that information filed by an ATS on

67

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70903.

68

Form ATS and the Form ATS Instructions are available at
http://www.sec.gov/about/forms/formats.pdf.

69

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(i).

70

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70864.

71

See id. As discussed more fully below, the current notice process applicable to ATSs is
very different than the process by which exchanges register with the Commission and
how amendments to exchange rules are regulated. See infra notes 158-162 and
accompanying text.

33

Form ATS is “deemed confidential when filed.” 72 Thus, under the current regulatory
requirements, market participants generally do not have information about, for example, how
orders are entered, prioritized, handled, and executed on an NMS Stock ATS, ATSs are not
otherwise required to publicly disclose such information. 73
In addition to providing notice of its initial operation, an ATS must notify the
Commission of any changes in its operations by filing an amendment to its initial operation
report. There are three types of amendments to an initial operation report. 74 First, if any
material change is made to its operations, the ATS must file an amendment on Form ATS at least
20 calendar days before implementing such change. 75 Second, if any information contained in
the initial operation report becomes inaccurate for any reason and has not been previously
reported to the Commission as an amendment on Form ATS, the ATS must file an amendment
on Form ATS correcting the information within 30 calendar days after the end of the calendar
quarter in which the system has operated.76 Third, an ATS must promptly file an amendment on
Form ATS correcting information that it previously reported on Form ATS after discovery that
72

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii).

73

The Commission does note, however, that some ATSs may currently make voluntary
public disclosures. See, e.g., infra note 156.

74

Form ATS is used for three types of submissions: initial operation reports; amendments
to initial operation reports; and cessation of operations reports. An ATS designates the
type of submission on the form. See Form ATS.

75

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(ii). A “material change,” includes, but is not limited to, any
change to the operating platform, the types of securities traded, or the types of
subscribers. In addition, the Commission has stated that ATSs implicitly make
materiality decisions in determining when to notify their subscribers of changes. See
Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70864. See also supra Section IV.C.6
(discussing the proposed materiality standard that would apply to the filing of
amendments on Form ATS-N).

76

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(iii).

34

any information was inaccurate when filed. 77 Also, upon ceasing to operate as an ATS, an ATS
is required to promptly file a cessation of operations report on Form ATS. 78 As is the case with
respect to initial operation reports, Form ATS amendments and cessation of operations reports
serve as notice to the Commission of changes to the ATS’s operations, 79 and Rule 301(b)(2)(vii)
and the instructions to the form state that Form ATS is “deemed confidential.” 80
Rule 301(b)(9) of Regulation ATS also requires ATSs to periodically report certain
information about transactions on the ATS and information about certain activities on Form
ATS-R within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter in which the market has
operated.81 Form ATS-R requires quarterly volume information for specified categories of
securities, as well as a list of all securities traded on the ATS during the quarter and a list of all
subscribers that were participants during the quarter.82 Form ATS-R also requires an ATS that is
subject to the fair access obligations under Rule 301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS to: (1) provide a
list of all persons granted, denied, or limited access to the ATS during the period covered by the
ATS-R and (2) designate for each person: (a) whether they were granted, denied, or limited
access; (b) the date the ATS took such action; (c) the effective date of such action; and (d) the

77

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(iv).

78

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(v).

79

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70864.

80

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii); Form ATS at 3, General Instructions A.7.

81

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(9)(i). Form ATS-R and the Form ATS-R Instructions are
available at https://www.sec.gov/about/forms/formats-r.pdf.

82

See Form ATS-R at 4, Items 1 and 2 (describing the requirements for Exhibit A and
Exhibit B of Form ATS-R). ATSs must also complete and file Form ATS-R within 10
calendar days after ceasing to operate. See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(9)(ii); Form ATS-R at 2,
General Instructions A.2 to Form ATS-R.

35

nature of any denial or limitation of access. 83 In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the
Commission stated that the information provided on Form ATS-R would permit the Commission
to monitor the trading on ATSs. 84 Like Form ATS, Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) and the instructions to
Form ATS-R state that Form ATS-R is “deemed confidential.” 85
In addition to the reporting requirements under Rules 301(b)(2) and 301(b)(9) of
Regulation ATS, an ATS’s exemption from national securities exchange registration is
conditioned on the ATS complying with the other requirements under Regulation ATS. Under
Rule 301(b)(3), an ATS that (1) displays subscriber orders in an NMS stock to any person (other
than an employee of the ATS) and (2) during at least four of the preceding six calendar months,
had an average daily trading volume of 5% or more of the aggregate average daily share volume
for that NMS stock, as reported by an effective transaction reporting plan, must: 86
•

pursuant to Rule 301(b)(3)(ii), 87 provide to a national securities exchange or national
securities association the prices and sizes of the orders at the highest buy price and
the lowest sell price for such NMS stock, displayed to more than one person in the
ATS, for inclusion in the quotation data made available by the national securities
exchange or national securities association pursuant to Rule 602 under Regulation
NMS; 88 and

83

See Form ATS-R at 6, Item 7 (explaining requirements for Exhibit C).

84

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70878.

85

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii); Form ATS-R at 2, General Instruction A.7.

86

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(3)(i).

87

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(3)(ii).

88

See 17 CFR 242.602.

36

•

pursuant to Rule 301(b)(3)(iii), 89 with respect to any such order displayed pursuant to
Rule 301(b)(3)(ii), provide to any broker-dealer that has access to the national
securities exchange or national securities association to which the ATS provides the
prices and sizes of displayed orders pursuant to Rule 301(b)(3)(ii), the ability to effect
a transaction with such orders that is:
o equivalent to the ability of such broker-dealer to effect a transaction with other
orders displayed on the exchange or by the association; and
o at the price of the highest priced buy order or lowest priced
sell order displayed for the lesser of the cumulative size of such priced orders
entered therein at such price, or the size of the execution sought by such
broker-dealer.

These order display and execution access obligations were adopted by the Commission with the
expectation they would promote additional market integration and further discourage two-tier
markets when trading in an NMS stock on an ATS reaches a certain level. 90
Under Rule 301(b)(4), an ATS must not charge any fee to broker-dealers that access the
ATS through a national securities exchange or national securities association that is inconsistent
with the equivalent access to the ATS that is required under Rule 301(b)(3)(iii). 91

89

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(3)(iii).

90

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70867.

91

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(4). In addition, if the national securities exchange or national
securities association to which an ATS provides the prices and sizes of orders under
Rules 301(b)(3)(ii) and 301(b)(3)(iii) establishes rules designed to assure consistency
with standards for access to quotations displayed on such national securities exchange, or
the market operated by such national securities association, the ATS shall not charge any

37

Under Rule 301(b)(5) – and even if the ATS does not display subscribers’ orders to any
person (other than an ATS employee) – an ATS with 5% or more of the average daily volume in
an NMS stock during at least four of the preceding six calendar months, as reported by an
effective transaction reporting plan, must: 92
•

establish written standards for granting access to trading on its system;

•

not unreasonably prohibit or limit any person in respect to access to services offered by
such ATS by applying the above standards in an unfair or discriminatory manner;

•

make and keep records of:
o all grants of access including, for all subscribers, the reasons for granting such
access; and
o all denials or limitations of access and reasons, for each applicant, for denying or
limiting access; and

•

report the information required in Exhibit C of Form ATS-R regarding grants, denials,
and limitations of access. 93

The above requirements of Rule 301(b)(5) are referred to as the “fair access” requirements and
apply on a security-by-security basis. 94 A denial of access to a market participant after an ATS
fee to members that is contrary to, that is not disclosed in the manner required by, or that
is inconsistent with any standard of equivalent access established by such rules. See id.
92

17 CFR 242.301(b)(5)(i).

93

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5)(ii). Regulation ATS does not mandate compliance with these
requirements when an ATS reaches the 5% trading threshold in an NMS stock if the
following conditions are met: the ATS matches customer orders for a security with other
customer orders; such customers’ orders are not displayed to any person, other than
employees of the ATS; and such orders are executed at a price for such security
disseminated by an effective transaction reporting plan, or derived from such prices. See
17 CFR 242.301(b)(5)(iii).

38

reaches the above 5% fair access threshold in an NMS stock would be reasonable if it is based on
objective standards. 95
Additionally, under Rule 301(b)(6), an ATS that trades only municipal securities or
corporate fixed income debt with 20% or more of the average daily volume traded in the U.S.
during at least four of the preceding six calendar months, must do the following with respect to
those systems that support order entry, order routing, order execution, transaction reporting, and
trade comparison: 96
•

establish reasonable current and future capacity estimates;

•

conduct periodic capacity stress tests of critical systems to determine such system’s
ability to process transactions in an accurate, timely, and efficient manner;

•

develop and implement reasonable procedures to review and keep current its system
development and testing methodology;

•

review the vulnerability of its systems and data center computer operations to internal
and external threats, physical hazards, and natural disasters;

•

establish adequate contingency and disaster recovery plans;

•

on an annual basis, perform an independent review, in accordance with established audit
procedures and standards, of the ATS’s controls for ensuring that the above requirements

94

The fair access requirements also apply for non-NMS stocks when an ATS reaches a 5%
trading threshold in certain securities other than NMS stocks, including certain equity
securities, municipal securities and corporate debt securities. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(5)(i).

95

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70874.

96

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(i).

39

are met, and conduct a review by senior management of a report containing the
recommendations and conclusions of the independent review; and
•

promptly notify the Commission and its staff of material systems outages and significant
systems changes. 97

Prior to the Commission’s adoption of Regulation SCI,98 the requirements of Rule 301(b)(6) also
applied to ATSs with regard to their trading in NMS stocks and non-NMS equity securities. 99
Regulation SCI superseded and replaced Rule 301(b)(6)’s requirements with regard to ATSs that
trade NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks. 100 In general, Regulation SCI requires SCI entities, 101

97

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(6)(ii). Also, as with the fair access requirements pursuant to
Rule 301(b)(5), Regulation ATS does not mandate compliance with the requirements
under Rule 301(b)(6) when an ATS reaches a 20% trading threshold if the following
conditions are met: the ATS matches customer orders for a security with other customer
orders; such customers’ orders are not displayed to any person, other than employees of
the ATS; and such orders are executed at a price for such security disseminated by an
effective transaction reporting plan, or derived from such prices. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(6)(iii).

98

See SCI Adopting Release, supra note 17.

99

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70875-76.

100

Regulation SCI does not apply to ATSs that trade only municipal securities or corporate
debt securities. See SCI Adopting Release, supra note 17, at 72262. Prior to the adoption
of Regulation SCI, Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation ATS imposed by rule certain aspects of
Commission policy statements with respect to technology systems of significant-volume
ATSs.
Specifically, Regulation SCI, with regard to SCI entities (as defined in Regulation SCI;
see infra note 101), superseded and replaced the Commission’s prior Automation Review
Policy (“ARP”), established by the Commission’s two policy statements, each titled
“Automated Systems of Self-Regulatory Organizations,” issued in 1989 and 1991, see
Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 27445 (November 16, 1989), 54 FR 48703
(November 24, 1989), and 29185 (May 9, 1991), 56 FR 22490 (May 15, 1991), including
the aspects of those policy statements previously codified in Rule 301(b)(6) of Regulation
ATS applicable to significant-volume ATSs that trade NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks.
See SCI Adopting Release, supra note 17, at 72252.

40

including NMS Stock ATSs that meet the definition of an “SCI ATS,” 102 to establish written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to ensure that their systems have levels of capacity,
integrity, resiliency, availability, and security adequate to maintain their operational capability
and promote the maintenance of fair and orderly markets, and that they operate in a manner that
complies with the Exchange Act.103 In addition, Regulation SCI requires SCI entities, including
NMS Stock ATSs that are SCI entities, to take corrective action with respect to SCI events
(defined to include systems disruptions, systems compliance issues, and systems intrusions), and
notify the Commission of such events. 104 Regulation SCI further requires SCI entities, including
NMS Stock ATSs that are SCI entities, to disseminate information about certain SCI events to
affected members or participants and, for certain major SCI events, to all members or
participants of the SCI entity. In addition, Regulation SCI requires SCI entities, including NMS
Stock ATSs that are SCI entities, to conduct a review of their systems by objective, qualified

101

Regulation SCI defines “SCI entity” to mean “an SCI self-regulatory organization, SCI
alternative trading system, plan processor, or exempt clearing agency subject to [the
Commission’s Automation Review Policies].” See 17 CFR 242.1000.

102

Regulation SCI defines “SCI alternative trading system” or “SCI ATS” to mean an ATS,
which during at least four of the preceding six calendar months: (1) had with respect to
NMS stocks (a) five percent (5%) or more in any single NMS stock, and one-quarter
percent (0.25%) or more in all NMS stocks, of the average daily dollar volume reported
by applicable transaction reporting plans, or (b) one percent (1%) or more in all NMS
stocks of the average daily dollar volume reported by applicable transaction reporting
plans; or (2) had with respect to equity securities that are not NMS stocks and for which
transactions are reported to a self-regulatory organization, five percent (5%) or more of
the average daily dollar volume as calculated by the self-regulatory organization to which
such transactions are reported. However, an SCI ATS is not required to comply with the
requirements of Regulation SCI until six months after satisfying the aforementioned
criteria. See 17 CFR 242.1000.

103

See SCI Adopting Release, supra note 17, at 72252.

104

See id.

41

personnel at least annually, submit quarterly reports regarding completed, ongoing, and planned
material changes to their SCI systems to the Commission, and maintain certain books and
records.105 It also requires SCI entities, including NMS Stock ATSs that are SCI entities, to
mandate participation by designated members or participants in scheduled testing of the
operation of their business continuity and disaster recovery plans, including backup systems, and
to coordinate such testing on an industry- or sector-wide basis with other SCI entities. 106
Regulation SCI, as compared to the former Rule 301(b)(6), also modified the volume thresholds
applicable to SCI ATSs.107
Rule 301(b)(7) 108 requires all ATSs, regardless of the volume traded on their systems, to
permit the examination and inspection of their premises, systems, and records, and cooperate
with the examination, inspection, or investigation of subscribers, whether such examination is
being conducted by the Commission or by an SRO of which such subscriber is a member. Rule
301(b)(8) 109 requires all ATSs to make and keep current the records specified in Rule 302 of
Regulation ATS 110 and preserve the records specified in Rule 303 of Regulation ATS. 111

105

See id.

106

See id.

107

See supra note 102. Prior to the adoption of Regulation SCI, the requirements of Rule
301(b)(6) also applied to ATSs that, during at least 4 of the preceding 6 calendar months,
had with respect to any NMS stock, 20% or more of the average daily volume reported
by an effective transaction reporting plan.

108

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(7).

109

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(8).

110

See 17 CFR 242.302.

111

See 17 CFR 242.303. In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission stated
that these requirements to make, keep, and preserve records are necessary to create a

42

Under Rule 301(b)(10), all ATSs must establish adequate safeguards and procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential trading information, which must include the following:
•

limiting access to the confidential trading information of subscribers to those employees
of the ATS who are operating the system or responsible for its compliance with these or
any other applicable rules; and

•

implementing standards controlling employees of the ATS trading for their own
accounts. 112

Furthermore, all ATSs must adopt and implement adequate oversight procedures to ensure that
the above safeguards and procedures are followed. 113
Finally, Rule 301(b)(11) 114 expressly prohibits any ATS from using the word “exchange”
or derivations of the word “exchange,” such as the term “stock market,” in its name. 115

meaningful audit trail and to permit surveillance and examination to help ensure fair and
orderly markets. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70877-78.
112

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(10)(i).

113

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(10)(ii).

114

See 17 CFR 240.301(b)(11).

115

When the Commission proposed Regulation ATS, it said that “it is important that the
investing public not be confused about the market role [ATSs] have chosen to assume.”
See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 39884 (April 21, 1998), 63 FR 23504, 23523
(April 29, 1998) (“Regulation ATS Proposing Release”). The Commission expressed
concern that “use of the term ‘exchange’ by a system not regulated as an exchange would
be deceptive and could mislead investors that such alternative trading system is registered
as a national securities exchange.” See id.

43

III.

Role of ATSs in the Current Equity Market Structure
A. Significant Source of Liquidity for NMS Stocks
The equity market structure in 1998 was starkly different than it is today. At the time

Regulation ATS was proposed, there were only 8 registered national securities exchanges, 116 and
the Commission estimated that there were approximately 43 systems that would be eligible to
operate as ATSs.117 Currently, there are 18 registered national securities exchanges, of which
there are 11 national securities exchanges that trade NMS stocks,118 and 84 ATSs with a Form
ATS on file with the Commission. Currently, there are 46 ATSs that have noticed on their Form
ATS that they expect to trade NMS stocks.119 As the Commission noted in the SCI Adopting
Release, even smaller trading centers, such as certain high-volume ATSs, now collectively
represent a significant source of liquidity for NMS stocks, and some ATSs have similar and, in
some cases, greater trading volume than some national securities exchanges. 120 In the second
quarter of 2015, there were 38 ATSs that reported transactions in NMS stocks, accounting for 59
billion shares traded in NMS stocks ($2.5 trillion), and represented approximately 15.0% of total
share trading volume (15.4% of total dollar trading volume) on all national securities exchanges,
ATSs, and non-ATS OTC trading venues combined. 121 During this period, no individual ATS

116

See Regulation ATS Proposing Release, supra note 115, at 23543 n.341.

117

See id. at 23540 n.313 and accompanying text.

118

The Commission notes that National Stock Exchange, Inc. ceased trading on its system as
of the close of business on May 30, 2014. See Securities Exchange Act Release No.
72107 (May 6, 2014), 79 FR 27017 (May 12, 2014) (SR-NSX-2014-14).

119

Data compiled from Forms ATS submitted to the Commission as of November 1, 2015.

120

See SCI Adopting Release, supra note 17, at 72262.

121

See infra Table 1 – “NMS Stock ATSs Ranked by Dollar Trading Volume – March 30,
2015 to June 26, 2015.” Total dollar trading volume on all exchanges and off-exchange

44

executed more than approximately 13% of the total share volume on NMS Stock ATSs and no
more than approximately 2% of total NMS stock share volume. 122 Given this dispersal of
trading volume in NMS stocks among an increasing number of trading centers, NMS Stock
ATSs, with their approximately 15% market share, represent a significant source of liquidity in
NMS stocks.

trading in the second quarter of 2015 was approximately $16.3 trillion and approximately
397 billion shares. See Market Volume Summary,
https://www.batstrading.com/market_summary/. See also infra Section XIII.B.1.
Competitors for listed-equity (NMS) trading services also include several hundred OTC
market makers and broker-dealers.
122

The NMS Stock ATS with the greatest volume executed approximately 12.7% of NMS
Stock ATS share volume and 1.9% of the total consolidated NMS stock share trading
volume.
The market share percentages were calculated by Commission staff using market volume
statistics reported by BATS and FINRA ATS data collected from ATSs pursuant to
FINRA Rule 4552. See infra Table 1 – “NMS Stock ATSs Ranked by Dollar Trading
Volume – March 30, 2015 to June 26, 2015.”
FINRA recently adopted a rule that requires NMS Stock ATSs to report aggregate
weekly volume information and number of trades to FINRA in certain equity securities,
including NMS stocks, some of which FINRA makes publicly available. Reporting is on
a security-by-security basis for transactions occurring within the ATS. Each ATS is also
required to use a unique MPID in its reporting to FINRA, such that its volume reporting
is distinguishable from other transaction volume reported by the broker-dealer operator of
the ATS, including volume reported for other ATSs operated by the same broker-dealer.
See FINRA Rules 4552, 6160, 6170, 6480 and 6720. See also Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 71341 (January 17, 2014), 79 FR 4213 (January 24, 2014) (SR-FINRA2013-042) (order granting approval of a proposed rule change to require alternative
trading systems to report volume information to FINRA and use a unique market
participant identifier) (“FINRA ATS Reporting Approval”).
FINRA publishes on its website the trading information (volume and number of trades)
reported for each equity security, with appropriate disclosures that the information is
based on ATS-submitted reports and not on reports produced or validated by FINRA.
See id. at 4214. See also Alternative Trading System (ATS) Transparency on FINRA’s
website, http://www.finra.org/Industry/Compliance/MarketTransparency/ATS/.

45

Another significant aspect of the increased role of NMS Stock ATSs in equity market
structure is the proliferation of ATSs that trade NMS stocks but do not publicly display
quotations in the consolidated quotation data, commonly referred to as “dark pools.” 123 Dark
pools originally were designed to offer certain market participants, particularly institutional
investors, the ability to minimize transaction costs when executing trades in large size by
completing their trades without prematurely revealing the full extent of their trading interest to
the broader market. The disclosure of large size trades could have an impact on the market, and
reduce the likelihood of the orders being filled. 124 As the Commission has previously noted,
some dark pools, such as block crossing networks, offer specialized size discovery mechanisms
that attempt to bring large buyers and sellers in the same stock together anonymously and to
facilitate a trade between them. 125 The traditional definition of block orders are orders for more

123

The term “dark pool” is not used or defined in the Exchange Act or Commission rules.
For purposes of this release, the term refers to NMS Stock ATSs that do not publicly
display quotations in the consolidated quotation data. See Regulation of Non-Public
Trading Interest, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 60997 (November 13, 2009), 74
FR 61208, 61209 (November 23, 2009) (“Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest”)
(proposing rules and amendment to joint-industry plans describing the term dark pool).
Some trading centers, such as OTC market makers, also offer dark liquidity, primarily in
a principal capacity, and do not operate as ATSs. For purposes of this release, these
trading centers are not defined as dark pools because they are not ATSs. These trading
centers may, however, offer electronic dark liquidity services that are analogous to those
offered by dark pools. See id. at 61209 n.8.

124

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 61358 (January 14, 2010), 75 FR 3594,
3599 n.28 (January 21, 2010) (“2010 Equity Market Structure Release”).

125

See id. at 3599.

46

than 10,000 shares, 126 however average trade sizes can far exceed this and be as high as 500,000
shares per trade. 127
Most dark pools today, however, primarily execute trades with small sizes that are more
comparable to the average size of trades on registered national securities exchanges, which is
181 shares. 128 These dark pools that primarily match smaller orders (though the matched orders
may be “child” orders of much larger “parent” orders) execute more than 90% of dark pool
volume. 129 The majority of this volume is executed by dark pools that are operated by multiservice broker-dealers. 130 These broker-dealers typically also offer order routing services, trade
as principal in the ATS that they are operating, or both. 131
In recent years, as the number of NMS Stock ATSs has increased, so has the number of
dark pools. The number of active dark pools trading NMS stocks has increased from
approximately 10 in 2002, 132 to 32 in 2009, 133 to over 40 today. 134 Furthermore, in 2009, dark

126

See Rule 600(b)(9) of Regulation NMS (defining block size with respect to an order), 17
CFR 242.600(b)(9). See also Laura Tuttle , Alternative Trading Systems: Description of
ATS Trading in National Market System Stocks, at 9-10 (October 2013),
http://www.sec.gov/marketstructure/research/alternative-trading-systems-march-2014.pdf
(“Tuttle: ATS Trading in NMS Stocks”).

127

See infra, Table 2 – “NMS Stock ATSs Ranked by Average Trade Size – March 30, 2015
to June 26, 2015.”

128

See infra note 725 and accompanying text.

129

See 2010 Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124, 75 FR at 3599; see also infra,
Table 2 – “NMS Stock ATSs Ranked by Average Trade Size – March 30, 2015 to June
26, 2015.”

130

See infra note 364 and accompanying text and Table 1 – “NMS Stock ATSs Ranked by
Dollar Trading Volume – March 30, 2015 to June 26, 2015.”

131

See 2010 Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124, at 3599.

132

See Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest, supra note 123, at 61209 n.9 and
accompanying text.

47

pools accounted for 7.9% of NMS share volume. 135 It is now estimated that of the
approximately 397 billion shares traded in NMS stocks ($16.3 trillion), 14.9% of total NMS
stock share volume is attributable to dark pools, with no single individual dark pool executing
more than 1.9% of total NMS stock share volume. 136 The Commission also notes that some
NMS Stock ATSs, which do not provide their best priced-orders for inclusion in the consolidated
quotation data, make available to subscribers real-time information about quotes, orders, or other
trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS.
In contrast to dark pools, an ATS could be an Electronic Communication Network
(“ECN”). ECNs are ATSs that provide their best-priced orders for inclusion in the consolidated
quotation data, whether voluntarily or as required by Rule 301(b)(3) of Regulation ATS. 137 In
general, ECNs offer trading services (such as displayed or non-displayed order types, makertaker pricing, and data feeds) that are analogous to registered national securities exchanges. 138

133

See 2010 Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124, at 3598 n.22 and
accompanying text.

134

Data compiled from Forms ATS and Forms ATS-R filed to the Commission as of the end
of, and for the third quarter of, 2015.

135

See 2010 Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124, at 3598.

136

See infra Section XIII.B.1.

137

See Rule 600(b)(23) of Regulation NMS, 17 CFR 242.600(b)(23) (definition of
“electronic communications network”); see also 2010 Equity Market Structure Release,
supra note 124, at 3599.

138

See 2010 Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124, at 3599. See infra note 494
(describing the maker-taker pricing model).

48

B. Heightened Operational Complexity and Sophistication of NMS Stock ATSs
Since Regulation ATS was adopted, ATSs have gained market share in NMS stocks and
have also evolved to become more complex and sophisticated trading centers. In addition, ATSs
that transact in NMS stocks increasingly are operated by multi-service broker-dealers that engage
in significant brokerage and dealing activities in addition to their operation of their ATSs, and
the operations of NMS Stock ATSs have become increasingly intertwined with operations of
their broker-dealer operator, adding to the complexity of the manner in which those ATSs
operate. 139 The Commission is concerned that market participants have limited information
about the complex operations of NMS Stock ATSs and the unique relationship between an NMS
Stock ATS and its broker-dealer operator and the affiliates of the broker-dealer operator, who
often provide a significant source of liquidity on the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission
preliminarily believes that improving transparency of information available to market
participants would enable them to better assess NMS Stock ATSs as potential trading venues. 140
Since Regulation ATS was adopted, ATSs that effect transactions in NMS stocks have
grown increasingly complex in terms of the services and functionalities that they offer
subscribers. Over the past 16 years, these ATSs, like registered national securities exchanges,
have used advances in technology to improve the speed, capacity, and efficiency of their trading

139

As exemplified by some commenters’ responses and as discussed further below, market
participants are interested in information about, among other things, ATS affiliations,
sharing of order information, operation of smart order routers and to whom they give
preference, priority rules, order types, calculation of reference prices, and segmentation.
See, e.g., infra notes 186 and 190 and accompanying text (describing comments received
from Blackrock, Inc. and Bloomberg Tradebook LLC).

140

See, e.g., infra note 187 and accompanying text (describing a comment received from the
Consumer Federation of America).

49

functionalities to bring together the orders in NMS stocks of multiple buyers and sellers using
established, non-discretionary methods under which such orders interact and trade. Before
Regulation ATS was adopted, ATSs primarily operated as ECNs, as dark pools were not
prevalent during that period. Today, the vast majority of NMS Stock ATSs operate as dark
pools. Furthermore, based on Commission experience, ATSs that traded NMS stocks prior to the
adoption of Regulation ATS did not offer the same services and functionalities as they do today.
Today, most NMS Stock ATSs, like most registered national securities exchanges, are fullyelectronic, automated systems that provide a myriad of trading services to facilitate order
interaction among various types of users on the NMS Stock ATS. For example, NMS Stock
ATSs offer a wide range of order types, which are a primary means by which subscribers
communicate their instructions for the handling of their orders on the ATS. Based on
Commission experience, some NMS Stock ATSs allow subscribers to submit indications of
interests, conditional orders, and various types of pegged orders, often with time-in-force, or
other specifications, which are similar to those offered by exchanges, such as all or none,
minimum execution quantity, immediate or cancel, good till cancelled, and day. Unlike
registered national securities exchanges, however, most NMS Stock ATSs have adopted a dark
trading model, and do not display any quotations in the consolidated quotation data.
Additionally, at the time Regulation ATS was adopted, SORs were not a primary point of
access to ATSs that trade NMS stocks. Today, however, brokers compete to offer sophisticated
technology tools to monitor liquidity at many different venues and to implement order routing
strategies. 141 Using that knowledge of available liquidity, many brokers offer smart order
141

See 2010 Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124, 75 FR at 3602.

50

routing technology to route orders to various trading centers to access such liquidity. 142 Based on
Commission experience, broker-dealer operators frequently use SORs (or similar functionality)
to route orders to their NMS Stock ATSs in today’s marketplace. Furthermore, for some NMS
Stock ATSs, most orders must pass through the broker-dealer operator’s SOR (or similar
functionality) to enter the ATS. 143
In today’s highly automated trading environment, NMS Stock ATSs offer various
matching systems to bring together orders and counterparties in NMS stocks. These automated
matching systems, including limit order books, crossing systems, and various types of auctions,
are generally pre-programmed to execute orders pursuant to established non-discretionary
methods. These established non-discretionary methods dictate the terms of trading among
multiple buyers and sellers entering orders into the NMS Stock ATS and generally include
priority and allocation procedures. Based on Commission experience, some NMS Stock ATSs
offer price-time priority, while others offer midpoint only matching with time priority, or time
priority at other prices derived from the NBBO. Some NMS Stock ATSs may also offer priority
mechanisms with additional overlays. For example, amongst orders at a given price, priority
may be given to a certain type of order (e.g., agency orders), before then applying time priority.
Additionally, some NMS Stock ATSs offer order routing services similar to those offered by
national securities exchanges. 144

142

See id.

143

For a further discussion about the increased use of SORs (or similar functionalities) by
broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs, see infra Section VII.B.7.

144

For example, based on Commission experience, some NMS Stock ATSs, like national
securities exchanges, will route a subscriber’s order to another trading center when the

51

Some NMS Stock ATSs also offer subscribers the ability to further customize trading
parameters, or the broker-dealer operator may set parameters around the interaction of various
order flow. Based on Commission experience with information disclosed on Form ATS, some
NMS Stock ATSs may enable subscribers to select the types of, or even specific, subscriber or
order flow with which the subscriber wishes to interact. For example, some NMS Stock ATSs
may enable subscribers to prevent their orders from interacting with principal order flow of the
ATS’s broker-dealer operator, or may enable subscribers to prohibit execution of their order flow
against that of subscribers with certain execution characteristics (e.g., so called high-frequency
traders or “HFTs”). Subscribers may also have the option to prevent self-matching with other
order flow originating from the same firm. Some NMS Stock ATSs may also segment order
flow into various classifications of subscribers based upon parameters set by the broker-dealer
operator, such as historical execution characteristics, or may limit access to certain crossing
mechanisms based on a subscriber’s profile (e.g., the system may be programmed such that
institutional order flow only executes against other institutional order flow). 145 Subscribers may
or may not be aware that they have been classified as a particular type of participant on the NMS
Stock ATS, which may limit their ability to interact with order flow of certain other subscribers
to that NMS Stock ATS.
The Commission also preliminarily believes that, since Regulation ATS was adopted, the
operations of NMS Stock ATSs have become increasingly intertwined with operations of the

NMS Stock ATS cannot execute the order without trading through the NBBO, or if
otherwise directed by the subscriber.
145

A purported reason for such segmentation may be to help reduce information leakage or
the possibility of trading with undesirable counterparties.

52

broker-dealer operator, providing additional complexity to the manner in which NMS Stock
ATSs operate. Given this close relationship, the Commission preliminarily believes that
conflicts of interest can arise between the broker-dealer operator’s interest in its NMS Stock ATS
and its interest in its other non-ATS businesses. As discussed further below, at the time
Regulation ATS was adopted, the Commission recognized that broker-dealer operators may
perform additional functions other than the operation of their ATS, such as other trading
services, and adopted Rule 301(b)(10), which requires that ATSs have safeguards and procedures
to protect confidential subscriber trading information. 146 The Commission is concerned that
today, the potential for conflicts of interest as a result of a broker-dealer operator’s other business
interests, including those of its affiliates, may be greater than it was at that time, particularly due
to trading centers that multi-service broker-dealer operators own and operate.147 Additionally,
the broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS controls all aspects of the operation of the
ATS, including, among other things: means of access; who may trade; how orders interact,
match, and execute; market data used for prioritizing or executing orders; display of orders and
trading interest, and determining the availability of ATS services among subscribers. 148 The
non-ATS operations of a broker-dealer operator and its NMS Stock ATS typically are connected
in many ways. For example, in some cases, the broker-dealer operator, or its affiliates, owns,

146

See infra Section IX.

147

See infra Section VII.A (discussing the activities of broker-dealer operators of NMS
Stock ATSs and the possible conflicts of interest that may result, and the Commission’s
preliminary belief that providing market participants with information about such
activities will enable market participants to assess whether potential conflicts of interest
exist so that they may make more informed decisions about whether to send their order
flow to a particular NMS Stock ATS).

148

See infra Section VII.A.1.

53

and controls access to, the technology and systems that support the trading facilities of the NMS
Stock ATS, and provides and directs personnel to service the trading facilities of the ATS. As
discussed in more detail below, 149 the Commission is aware that most NMS Stock ATSs are
operated by broker-dealers that also engage in brokerage and dealing activities, and offer their
customers a variety of brokerage services, including algorithmic trading software, agency sales
desk support, and automated smart order routing services, often with, or through, their affiliates.
In addition, multi-service broker-dealers and their affiliates may operate, among other things, an
OTC market making desk or proprietary trading desk in addition to operating an ATS, or may
have other business units that actively trade NMS stocks on a principal or agency basis in the
ATS or at other trading centers. Furthermore, the broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS
may have arrangements with third-parties to perform certain aspects of its ATS’s operations, and
affiliates of those third parties may subscribe to the NMS Stock ATS, which the Commission is
concerned give rise to the potential for information leakage or conflicts of interest, of which
market participants may be unaware. 150
As discussed further below, the Commission preliminarily believes that details about the
operations and trading services of ATSs, such as those described above, are useful to market
participants’ understanding of the terms and conditions under which their orders will be handled
and executed on a given ATS. 151 The Commission also preliminarily believes that market
participants should have access to information about the relationship between a broker-dealer, its
149

See id.

150

See infra Sections VII.B.6 and 9 (discussing trading on the ATS by the broker-dealer
operator and its affiliates, and the relationship between an NMS Stock ATS and its
service providers, and proposing to require related disclosure).

151

See generally infra Sections VII and VIII.

54

affiliates, and the NMS Stock ATS that it operates, to adequately understand the operations of
the ATS and potential conflicts of interest that may arise.
C. Lack of Operational Transparency for NMS Stock ATSs
The Commission believes that one of the most important functions it can perform for
investors is to ensure that they have access to the information they need to protect and further
their own interests.152 As noted above, although transparency has long been a hallmark of the
U.S. securities markets and is one of the primary tools used by investors to protect their interests,
market participants have limited knowledge of the operations of ATSs and how orders interact,
match, and execute on ATSs. 153 The Commission is concerned that market participants have
limited information about the non-ATS activities of the broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock
ATSs and potential conflicts of interest that might arise from those activities. 154 The
Commission is also concerned that different classes of subscribers may have different levels of
information about the operations of NMS Stock ATSs and how their orders or other trading
interests may interact on the NMS Stock ATS. To address these concerns, the Commission’s
proposal is designed to provide better access to information about the operations of NMS Stock
ATSs to all market participants, including subscribers and potential subscribers.

152

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 42208, 64 FR 70613, 70614 (December
17, 1999) (concept release reviewing regulation of market information fees and
revenues).

153

See supra notes 40 and 139 (citing prior comment letters expressing the view that Form
ATS should be made publicly available and expressing support for making publicly
available ATS filings with the Commission, and exemplifying the kinds of information
about NMS Stock ATS operations that market participants, including broker-dealers and
intuitional investors, seek, but to which they may not currently have access).

154

See infra Section VII.A.

55

Under current rules, a Form ATS is “deemed confidential when filed.” 155 As a result,
market participants typically have, at best, limited access to Form ATS filings and the
information contained therein. Additionally, Form ATS discloses only limited aspects of an
ATS’s operations, and the Commission preliminarily believes that even where an ATS has
voluntarily made public its Form ATS, 156 market participants currently might not be able to
obtain a complete understanding of how ATSs operate. In addition, Form ATS does not solicit
information about possible circumstances that give rise to potential conflicts of interest resulting
from the activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates. Despite the confidentiality
afforded Form ATS, based on Commission experience, including the Commission’s experience
reviewing disclosures made by ATSs on Form ATS over the past 16 years, ATSs have often
provided minimal, summary disclosures about their operations on Form ATS. Furthermore, the
Commission preliminarily believes that the complexity of the operations of NMS Stock ATSs
has increased substantially and in a manner that causes the current disclosure requirements of
Form ATS to result in a potentially insufficient, and inconsistent, level of detail about the
operations of NMS Stock ATSs.
155

See 17 CR 242.301(b)(2)(vii). The information on Form ATS is available for
examination by staff, state securities authorities, and SROs. See Form ATS at 3,
Instruction A.7.

156

The Commission notes that some ATSs have chosen to make Form ATS filings publicly
available. See, e.g., IEX ATS Form ATS Amendment, dated July 29, 2015,
http://www.iextrading.com/policy/ats/; PDQ ATS Inc’s Form ATS Amendment, dated
January 30, 2015, http://www.pdqats.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/10/PDQ-FORMATS-FILING_01_30_15-website.pdf; Liquidnet H20 ATS Form ATS Amendment, dated
February 4, 2015, http://www.liquidnet.com/uploads/ATS_(H2O)_FormExhibits_CLEAN_4feb2015.pdf; SIGMA X Form ATS Amendment, dated May 21,
2014, http://www.goldmansachs.com/media-relations/in-the-news/current/pdf-media/gsform-ats-amendment.pdf; POSIT Form ATS Amendment, dated January 26, 2015,
http://www.itg.com/marketing/ITG_Form_ATS_for_POSIT_02112015.pdf.

56

By comparison, national securities exchanges, with which NMS Stock ATSs directly
compete, are subject to comprehensive registration and rule filing requirements under Section
19(b) of the Exchange Act. 157 Under these requirements, national securities exchanges must
make public their trading rules and detail their trading operations. As discussed above, national
securities exchanges register with the Commission on Form 1, and thereafter file proposed rule
changes on Form 19b-4, which are not confidential, are approved by the Commission or become
effective by operation of law, and are made public. 158 These mandatory filings publicly disclose,
among other things, details about the exchange’s trading services, operations, order types, order
interaction protocols, priority procedures, and fees. 159 A national securities exchange must file
such a proposed rule change any time it seeks to change its rules, 160 and even non-controversial
rule changes cannot be implemented until the exchange files a Form 19b-4 with the
Commission. 161 In contrast, an ATS can change its operations in certain cases before notifying

157

15 USC 78s(b).

158

See generally 15 U.S.C. 78s(a) and (b); and 17 CFR 240.19b-4. See also supra notes 2023 and accompanying text; http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml.

159

Among other things, Form 1 requires an exchange applying for registration as a national
securities exchange to disclose its procedures governing entry and display of quotations
and orders in its system, procedures governing the execution, reporting, clearance and
settlement of transactions in connection with the system, and fees. See Form 1, Exhibits
E.2-E.4. The disclosures required in Form 1 must include sufficient detail for the
Commission to determine the exchange’s rules are consistent with the Act. See generally
15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1). Once registered, a national securities exchange must file any
proposed rule or any proposed change in, addition to, or deletion from its rules. See 15
U.S.C. 78s(b)(2).

160

See 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

161

See 17 CFR 240.19b-4(f).

57

the Commission, and in all cases, without obtaining Commission approval or notifying ATS
subscribers or the public about the change. 162
The Commission preliminarily believes that the increased complexity of NMS Stock
ATS operations and the business structures of their broker-dealer operators, combined with a
lack of transparency around the operation of NMS Stock ATSs and the activities of their brokerdealer operators, could inhibit a market participant’s ability to assess an NMS Stock ATS as a
potential trading venue. Further, the Commission recognizes that Form ATS was designed
before NMS Stock ATSs operated at the level of complexity that they do today, and the equity
market structure has substantially changed since Regulation ATS was adopted. 163 As such, the
Commission preliminarily believes that transparency of NMS Stock ATSs’ operations will

162

See supra notes 20-25 and accompanying text and infra notes 342-343 and accompanying
text (discussing, in more detail, the differences in the regulatory regimes for registered
national securities exchanges and ATSs, including with respect to requirements related to
transparency of operations). See also 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2) (requiring ATSs to file
amendments on Form ATS at least 20 days prior to implementing a material change to
the operation of the ATS, and within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar
quarter to update any other information that has become inaccurate and not previously
reported).

163

The Commission preliminarily believes that information solicited on Form ATS-N would
be similar to portions of what registered national securities exchange are required to
publicly disclose, and thus, that disclosure of the information would not place NMS
Stock ATSs at a competitive disadvantage with respect to competing trading venues. See
infra Section IV.D. The Commission notes that, while some of the questions on Form
ATS-N are designed to provide information about potential conflicts of interest arising
from the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates and are dissimilar to
information required to be disclosed by a national securities exchange, national securities
exchanges must have rules that are consistent with the Exchange Act, and in particular
Section 6. To date, national securities exchanges have implemented rules to address the
potential for conflicts of interest when the national securities exchange is affiliated with a
broker-dealer that is a member of the national securities exchange. See, infra, notes 369373 and accompanying text (discussing the Commission’s concerns regarding conflicts of
interest in the context of national securities exchanges).

58

promote competition and benefit investors by informing market participants about differences
between trading venues that could impact the quality of the execution of their orders.164 The
Commission preliminarily believes that requiring ATSs to respond to proposed Form ATS-N,
which would require more detailed information about the ATSs’ operations and be made
available to the public on the Commission’s website, would facilitate the public’s understanding
of NMS Stock ATSs by improving the information available to market participants, enabling
them to make better decisions about where to route their orders to achieve their investing or
trading objectives.
D. Prior Comments on Operational Transparency and Regulatory Framework for
NMS Stock ATSs
The Commission is proposing to amend Regulation ATS to adopt Form ATS-N, which
would require an NMS Stock ATS to publicly disclose detailed information about its operations
and the activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates. The Commission is also
proposing to modify the regulatory requirements that apply to NMS Stock ATSs and qualify
NMS Stock ATSs for the exemption from the definition of “exchange” under Exchange Act Rule
3a1-1(a)(2) by declaring the Form ATS-N effective or ineffective.
In 2009, the Commission proposed to amend the regulatory requirements of the
Exchange Act that apply to non-public trading interest in NMS stocks, including dark pools. 165
Among other things, the Commission proposed to substantially lower the trading volume
164

See infra Section XIII.C (discussing the Commission’s preliminary belief that the
proposal would help market participants make better decisions about where to route their
orders, improve the efficiency of capital allocation, and execution quality, and also
addressing the effect of the disclosure of proprietary information on competition).

165

See Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest, supra note 123, at 62108 (proposing rules
and amendment to joint-industry plans).

59

threshold in Regulation ATS that triggers public display obligations for ATSs and to amend
joint-industry plans for publicly disseminating consolidated trade data to require real-time
disclosure of the identity of an ATS in the consolidated last-sale report. The Commission
received four comments on its Regulation of Non-Public Interest proposal that directly relate to
the amendments to Regulation ATS that the Commission is proposing today. 166
Three commenters expressed the view that the Commission should address the regulatory
disparity between national securities exchanges and ATSs. Senator Edward E. Kaufman
expressed the view that “as trading continues to become faster and more dispersed, it is that
much more difficult for regulators to perform their vital oversight and surveillance functions,”
and that “the Commission should consider strengthening the regulatory requirements for
becoming an Alternative Trading System or starting a new trading platform for existing market
centers.” 167 Senator Kaufman further urged the Commission to “harmonize rules across all
market centers to ensure exchanges and ATSs are competing on a level playing field that serves
the interests of all investors.” NYSE Euronext stated that because “ATSs now represent a
significant share of trading volume in NMS stocks . . . the time is ripe to move to a framework
that has consistent regulatory requirements when the trading activity at issue is essentially the
166

See letter to Mary L. Schapiro, Chairman, Commission, from Sen. Edward E. Kaufman,
United States Senate, dated August 5, 2010 (“Kaufman letter”); letters to Elizabeth M.
Murphy, Secretary, Commission, from Janet M. Kissane, Senior Vice President, Legal &
Corporate Secretary Office of the General Counsel, NYSE Euronext, dated February 22,
2010 (“NYSE Euronext letter #1”); from Jeffrey D. Morgan, CAE, President and CEO,
National Investor Relations Institute, dated February 16, 2010 (“National Investor
Relations Institute letter”); letter to the Commission, from Seth Merrin, Chief Executive
Officer; Anthony Barchetto, Head of Trading Strategy; Jay Biancamo, Global Head of
Marketplace; Vlad Khandros, Market Structure Analyst; Howard Meyerson, General
Counsel, Liquidnet, Inc., dated December 21, 2009 (“Liquidnet letter #1”).

167

Kaufman letter, supra note 166, attachment at 4-5.

60

same.” 168 The National Investor Relations Institute opined that “the same regulatory oversight,
market surveillance, reporting, and other investor safeguards that exist for exchanges should be
in place for all trading venues to ensure maximum investor protection.” 169
Liquidnet expressed the view that the Commission should require institutional brokers,
including institutional ATSs, to disclose to their customers specific order handling practices and
that Regulation ATS should be amended to enhance the review process of new ATSs and
material changes to ATSs’ business operations. 170 Liquidnet stated that disclosures by
institutional brokers, including institutional ATSs, to their customers should include, among
other things, identification of external venues to which the broker routes orders, the process for
crossing orders with other orders received by the broker, execution of orders as agent and
principal, a detailed description of the operation and function of each ATS or trading desk
operated by the broker, a clear and detailed description of each algorithm and order type offered
by the broker, categories of participant and admission criteria for each ATS or trading desk with
which the customer’s order can interact, and internal processes and policies to control
dissemination of the institution’s order and trade information and other confidential
information. 171 Liquidnet also suggested that the Commission amend “Regulation ATS to
permit the Commission to delay the effective date of a new ATS commencing operation or of an
existing ATS implementing a material business change if the Commission believes that
information in the ATS filing is unclear or incomplete or raises an issue of potential non168

NYSE Euronext letter #1, supra note 166, at 3.

169

National Investor Relations Institute letter, supra note 166, at 2.

170

See Liquidnet letter #1, supra note 166, at D-5-6, 11.

171

See Liquidnet letter #1, supra note 166, at D-5-6.

61

compliance with applicable law or regulation,” and expressed support for making publicly
available ATS filings with the Commission. 172
In 2010, the Commission issued a Concept Release that, among other things, solicited
comment on whether trading centers offering undisplayed liquidity are subject to appropriate
regulatory requirements for the type of business they conduct. 173 Specifically, the Commission
asked, among other things, for comment on the following: 174
•

Do investors have sufficient information about dark pools to make informed decisions
about whether in fact they should seek access to dark pools? Should dark pools be
required to provide improved transparency on their trading services and the nature of
their participants? If so, what disclosures should be required and in what manner should
ATSs provide such disclosures?

•

Are there any other aspects of ATS regulation that should be enhanced for dark pools or
for all ATSs, including ECNs?

•

Are there any ways in which Regulation ATS should be modified or supplemented to
appropriately reflect the significant role of ATSs in the current market structure?
The Commission received 20 comment letters that addressed these questions as they

relate to the proposal. 175 The 20 comment letters offered contrasting views.

172

Id. at D-11.

173

See 2010 Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124, at 3614.

174

See id.

175

See letters from Theodore R. Lazo, Managing Director and Associate General Counsel,
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, dated October 24, 2014 (“SIFMA
letter #2); Richie Prager, Hubert De Jesus, Supurna Vedbrat, and Joanne Medero,
BlackRock, Inc., dated September 12, 2014 (“Blackrock letter”); Micah Hauptman,

62

Five commenters expressed support for Commission action to address the regulatory
disparity between national securities exchanges and ATSs, particularly where such trading
venues perform similar functions. Security Traders Association of New York noted that it has
“called for the harmonization of regulatory oversight and the need for similar rules across
venues, including exchanges, ATSs and other liquidity sources that are connected through the
Reg. NMS regulatory framework.”176 Nasdaq OMX expressed the view that the “Commission
has flexibility to adopt a more principles-based regulatory structure” which it could use to “level
the competitive playing field between ATSs and exchanges,” and that “[i]n areas where ATS and

Consumer Federation of America, dated September 9, 2014 (“Consumer Federation of
America letter”); Christopher Nagy and Dave Lauer, KOR Group LLC, dated April 4,
2014 (“KOR Group letter”); Bill Neuberger, Andrew Silverman, Paul Fitzgerald, and
Sapna Patel, Morgan Stanley, dated March 7, 2011 (“Morgan Stanley letter”); Raymond
M. Tierney III and Gary Stone, Bloomberg Tradebook LLC, dated June 28, 2013
(“Bloomberg Tradebook letter”); Greg Tusar, Goldman Sachs Execution & Clearing,
L.P., and Matthew Lavicka, Goldman Sachs & Co., dated June 25, 2010 (“Goldman
Sachs letter”); Jeffrey S. Wecker, Lime Brokerage LLC, dated May 21, 2010 (“Lime
Brokerage letter”); Andrew C. Small, Scottrade, dated May 19, 2010 (“Scottrade letter”);
Kimberly Unger, The Security Traders Association of New York, Inc., dated May 10,
2010 (“Security Traders Association of New York letter”); Stuart J. Kaswell, Managed
Funds Association, dated May 7, 2010 (“Managed Funds Association letter”); Raymond
M. Tierney III, Bloomberg L.P., dated May 7, 2010 (“Bloomberg L.P. letter”); James J.
Angel, Georgetown University, McDonough School of Business, dated January 16, 2011
(“Angel letter”); Joan C. Conley, Nasdaq OMX Group, Inc., dated April 30, 2010
(“Nasdaq OMX letter”); Ann Vlcek, Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, dated April 29, 2010 (“SIFMA letter #1”); Joseph M. Velli, BNY
ConvergEx Group, LLC, dated April 29, 2010 (“BNY CovergEx Group letter”); O.
Mason Hawkins, Richard W. Hussey, Deborah L. Craddock, Jeffrey D. Engelberg, and
W. Douglas Schrank, Southeastern Asset Management, Inc., dated April 28, 2010
(“Southeastern Asset Management letter”); Janet M. Kissane, NYSE Euronext, dated
April 23, 2010 (“NYSE Euronext letter #2”); David C. Cushing, Wellington Management
Company, LLP, dated April 21, 2010 (“Wellington Management Company letter”); Seth
Merrin, Howard Meyerson, and Vlad Khandros, Liquidnet, Inc., dated March 26, 2010
(“Liquidnet letter #2”).
176

Security Traders Association of New York letter, supra note 175, at 2.

63

exchange activities overlap, differences in [regulatory] approach should persist only if there is a
clear policy basis for those differences.” 177 NYSE Euronext opined that the “lighter regulatory
oversight for ATSs puts transparent, regulated markets at a competitive disadvantage, to the
potential detriment of investors” and that “now that ATSs represent a significant share of trading
volume in NMS stocks, . . . the Commission should address the regulatory disparity between
registered exchanges and ATSs that engage in trading activities analogous to traditional
exchange trading.” 178 Wellington Management Company expressed the view that “regulatory
requirements for types of venues should differ only to the extent the differentiated requirements
are specifically designed to address clearly identifiable and compelling needs” and that “material
disparities in regulatory requirements could make it difficult for exchanges to compete with
ATSs and broker-dealers and could threaten their long-term survival.” 179 Liquidnet stated that
“[t]o the extent that an exchange conducts the equivalent business function as a broker or an
ATS, regulators should ensure that levels of regulation are consistent.” 180
However, three commenters expressed the view that in order to rectify the regulatory
disparity, the Commission should lessen regulatory burdens on exchanges, rather than enhance
its regulation of ATSs. Goldman Sachs urged the Commission to “consider expanding the types
of rule changes that exchanges . . . can propose on an immediately effective basis,” which
“would help to level the playing field between exchanges and ATSs.” 181 Wellington

177

Nasdaq OMX letter, supra note 175, at 13, 16.

178

NYSE Euronext letter #2, supra note 175, at 7.

179

Wellington Management Company letter, supra note 175, at 3.

180

Liquidnet letter #2, supra note 175, at F-7.

181

Goldman Sachs letter, supra note 175, at 10.

64

Management Company opined that “the burden of regulation should be shared fairly by
execution venues” and that “exchanges should be granted the ability to make certain rule changes
in a manner similar to ATSs (i.e., as a notification with SEC veto authority, and not as part of a
lengthy notice, comment, and approval process).” 182 Liquidnet stated that “regulators should not
impose unnecessary burdens on ATSs and brokers, but rather should remove unnecessary
regulatory burdens from exchanges, to the extent that they exist.” 183
Ten commenters expressed the view that ATSs and broker-dealers should be required to
provide more enhanced disclosures regarding their operations, and described specific disclosures
that the Commission should require of ATSs. SIFMA stated that the Commission “should
require broker-dealers to publish on their websites, on a monthly basis, a standardized disclosure
report that provides an overview of key macro issues that are of interest to clients,” including,
among other things, “order types supported on the broker-dealer’s ATS (if applicable).” 184
Blackrock, Inc. expressed the view that although some ATSs voluntarily publish their Form ATS
filings and supplemental materials, the “particular operational features specified and degree of
detail lack consistency from one [Form ATS] submission to another” and that “[a]dditional
standardization and information are required in disclosures about ATS practices.” 185 Blackrock
further stated that “[m]andatory ATS disclosures should include greater detail on how the
platform calculates reference prices, determines order priority, matches orders between client
segments, monitors execution quality, advertises orders, interacts with affiliates and is
182

Wellington Management Company letter, supra note 175, at 3.

183

Liquidnet letter #2, supra note 175, at F-7.

184

SIFMA letter #2, supra note 175, at 13.

185

Blackrock letter, supra note 175, at 4.

65

compensated by subscribers.” 186 The Consumer Federation of America stated that Form ATS
should require ATSs to provide “critical details about an ATS’s participants, segmentation, and
fee structure” because the “information will allow market participants, regulators, and third party
analysts to assess whether an ATS’s terms of access and service are such that it makes sense to
trade on that venue.” 187 The Consumer Federation of America further opined that “the
Commission should undertake an exhaustive investigation of the current order types, requiring
exchanges and all ATSs, including dark pools, to disclose in easily understandable terms what
their purpose is, how they are used in practice, who is using them, and why they are not
discriminatory or resulting in undue benefit or harm to any traders.”188
Bloomberg Tradebook LLC noted that buy-side representatives with whom it met at a
workshop for members of equity trading desks of asset managers stated that although they
periodically send questionnaires to their brokers regarding order handling and internalization
(dark pool) matching protocols, because the buy-side representatives might not be customers of
all ATSs, they could not assess order interaction that occurs across the market structure. 189
Bloomberg Tradebook also recommended that the Commission ask exchanges and ATSs to
complete a questionnaire with “Yes” and “No” checkboxes that would provide an overview of
each exchange’s or ATS’s operations, and which Bloomberg Tradebook suggested could be
posted on the Commission’s website. Bloomberg Tradebook provided a sample questionnaire
that included questions relating to, among other things, affiliations, riskless principal trades,
186

Id.

187

Consumer Federation of America letter, supra note 175, at 22.

188

Id. at 37-38.

189

Bloomberg Tradebook letter, supra note 175, at 1.

66

trades effected in a proprietary capacity, sharing of orders or order information with affiliates or
other trading venues and compensation for such sharing, operation of a smart order router and
whether it gives preference to the exchange or ATS or an affiliate, priority rules, order types that
enable customers to gain preference, and special fees or rebates which lead to a preference of one
order over another. 190
Goldman Sachs recommended an enhanced disclosure regime for exchanges and ATSs
consisting of four components. First, exchanges and ATSs would be required to “provide
descriptions of the types of functionalities that they provide, such as types of orders (e.g.,
flash/pinging orders, conditional orders), services (e.g., co-location, special priority), and data
(e.g., depth-of-book quotations, per order information).” Second, they would “disclose the basis
upon which members/subscribers access the type of order, service or data,” and “whether only a
certain class of market participants has access.” Third, they would be required to disclose how
commonly the functionality is used. Fourth, the exchanges and ATSs would disclose more
market quality statistics “so that investors and other market participants could better gauge
execution quality.” 191
Lime Brokerage, LLC recommended that the Commission should require “transparency
around pricing, access criteria and membership of dark pools.” 192 Managed Funds Association
stated that “as long as co-location is available to investors, traders and larger brokers on an equal
basis, the secondary market for such services to smaller customers from their brokers should be
competitive and thus, fairly priced,” and therefore, “we believe market centers should disclose if
190

Id. at 2-3.

191

Goldman Sachs letter, supra note 175, at 9-10.

192

Lime Brokerage letter, supra note 175, at 7.

67

they or third parties offer co-location services on a priority basis other than first available.” 193
SIFMA stated its belief that “added disclosure about co-location and other market access
arrangements would be beneficial to market participants,” and that “[s]uch disclosure might
describe standard, high speed, co-location, or other means by which members may access an
exchange or ATS, and provide market participants with details regarding the categories of
market participants that use each means of access, the data capacity associated with each
arrangement, and the quotation and transaction volume attributable to each arrangement.” 194
Southeastern Asset Management, Inc. commented that brokers and trading venues should
disclose to investors information such as payments, rebates, and fees related to execution venues,
venue rankings by routing brokers and routing venues, and the inputs that create the routing
rankings, and the transparency of customer specific order routing and execution available to the
specific customer. 195 Liquidnet recommended that institutional ATSs make similar disclosures
to those it recommended when commenting on the Regulation of Non-Public Interest proposing
rules and amendment to joint-industry plans. 196
In addition to the ten commenters that provided specific Form ATS disclosure
recommendations, one commenter provided some examples of customer questions and requests
specific to dark pools that it received. Such questions and requests related to, among other
things, whether the commenter’s dark pool is truly dark, categorization or tagging of order flow,
whether participants may opt out of or into interaction with certain flow, proprietary orders
193

Managed Funds Association letter, supra note 175, at 27.

194

SIFMA letter #1, supra note 175, at 7.

195

See Southeastern Asset Management letter, supra note 175, at 7.

196

See Liquidnet letter #2, supra note 175, at F-1-F-2; see also supra note 129.

68

interaction with the dark pool, priority rules, requests to exclude certain types of venues for
routing of orders, maintenance of confidential trading information, use of direct market data
feeds by the dark pool’s servers and algorithmic strategies, and co-location of servers and
algorithmic strategies to exchange and ATS servers. 197 The commenter also provided some
sample questions for its clients to ask of their dark pool providers. These included questions
relating to the dark pools methods of access, client/subscriber base, types of orders permitted,
matching of dark pool orders at the NBBO, price improvement, interaction of the dark pool’s
principal and proprietary orders with client orders on the dark pool, categorization or tagging of
order flow, and order types. 198 The commenter also included several questions that clients
should ask dark pools about the sell-side broker-dealers and exchanges that the dark pools
access.
In response to the questions the Commission raised in the Equity Market Structure
Release, one commenter raised questions relating to the transparency of ATSs’ operations. The
commenter asked, among other things, whether:
•

Form ATS filings provide the Commission with complete and timely information
about the operation of ATSs, and whether such filings are sufficiently frequent and
detailed to allow the Commission to understand planned system changes by ATSs;

197

See Morgan Stanley letter, supra note 175, at 12-14. Additionally, representatives from
Morgan Stanley met with staff from the Commission’s Division of Trading and Market to
discuss market structure issues. During that meeting, Morgan Stanley provided, among
other things, examples of frequently asked questions that it believes could be
standardized to provide mandated transparency about how orders are handled on dark
pools. See Memorandum from the Division of Trading and Markets regarding an
October 1, 2015, meeting with representatives of Morgan Stanley,
https://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-02-10/s70210.shtml.

198

See Morgan Stanley letter, supra note 175.

69

•

the Commission has adequate tools to respond to concerns about the operations of
ATSs;

•

the Commission has adequate information about the relationships between ATSs and
their subscribers, including how “toxicity” ratings are assigned to subscribers, and
their impact on individual subscriber’s access and fees, and whether it is acceptable
that ATS subscribers can assign such ratings to counterparties within and outside the
ATS without disclosing objective criteria;

•

the Commission has adequate information about ATS pricing, noting that but for the
Rule 3a1-1 exemption from exchange registration, ATSs would be required to charge
fees that are fair and not unreasonably discriminatory; and

•

the Commission receives enough information from ATSs about their access policies
to make comprehensive assessment about competitive dynamics at work in the
market.199

The commenter stated its belief that responding to the Commission’s questions in the Equity
Market Structure Release with the commenter’s own responsive questions was “entirely
appropriate” because the “public cannot comment on the adequacy of Form ATS filings,” and
therefore, “the Commission and its staff are uniquely qualified to assess whether the
requirements of the Form and the content of actual submitted filings provide adequate and timely
information.” 200

199

See Nasdaq OMX letter, supra note 175, at 14-16.

200

Id. at 16.

70

One commenter discussed a May 2009 Opinion Research Corporation survey of 284
executives from NYSE-listed companies, noting that only 17% of the executives were satisfied
with the transparency of trading in their company’s stock, and that 69% of the executives
“indicated there is inadequate regulatory oversight of non-exchange trading venues, including
dark pools.” 201
Five commenters expressed the view that Form ATS filings should be made publicly
available. SIFMA opined that “[t]o enhance transparency and confidence, all ATSs should
publish the Form ATS and make their forms available on their websites.” 202 Blackrock stated
that current and historical Form ATS filings for active ATSs “should be made immediately
available to the public, subject to appropriate redaction of confidential information,” noting that
some ATS operators “have already displayed exemplary transparency by voluntarily publishing
their Form ATS filings and supplemental materials.” 203 The Consumer Federation of America
stated its support for requiring all ATSs, including dark pools, to publicly disclose their Forms
ATS “so that the public can see how these venues operate.”204 KOR Group LLC opined that the
fact that “ATS filings are hidden from the public while the burden is on SROs to file publicly . . .
does not serve the public interest in any way, and makes it easy for media and others to
sensationalize and demonize what is occurring in this part of the market,” further opining that
there “should not be any reasoned argument against” making Form ATS publicly available. 205

201

NYSE Euronext letter #2, supra note 175, at 7.

202

SIFMA letter #2, supra note 175, at 13.

203

Blackrock letter, supra note 175, at 4.

204

Consumer Federation of America letter, supra note 175, at 22.

205

KOR Group letter, supra note 175, at 12.

71

Goldman Sachs recommended disclosing Form ATS publicly because “[s]uch disclosure would
provide investors with useful information regarding the business practices of ATSs,” and
supported a requirement for “ATSs to provide public notice of material changes to their business
practices,” but also stated its opposition to “any requirement that ATSs disclose information
about their matching algorithms or the nature of their subscribers” because such disclosure
“could result in information leakage that would detrimentally impact liquidity.” 206 James J.
Angel commented that Form ATS should be publicly available on the Commission’s Electronic
Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval System (“EDGAR”). 207 As it had done when
commenting on the Regulation of Non-Public Interest proposing rules and amendment to jointindustry plans, 208 Liquidnet recommended that ATS filings with the Commission be made
publicly available. 209
Three commenters expressed their opposition to enhanced regulation of ATSs. Scottrade,
Inc. stated it believed that ATSs had “brought innovation and better execution quality to the
equity markets,” and that it “would not be in favor of additional regulation that would reduce
competition, raise barriers to entry for ATSs or force orders to be routed to specific
destinations.” 210 Bloomberg L.P. stated that it had “heard exchanges argue it would be in the
interest of the exchanges to regulate ATSs more aggressively,” but that it had “not seen evidence
why that which is in the exchanges’ interest is necessarily in the public interest,” and suggested

206

Goldman Sachs letter, supra note 175, at 10.

207

See Angel letter, supra note 175, at 13.

208

See Liquidnet letter #1 supra note 166.

209

See Liquidnet letter #2, supra note 175, at F-8.

210

Scottrade letter, supra note175, at 4.

72

that the Commission should “look to investors’ needs,” which Bloomberg L.P. thought “do not . .
. justify increasing the regulatory burdens on alternative trading systems.” 211 BNY ConvergEx
Group stated its belief that “the current system of ATS regulation works well and structural
changes are not necessary,” and that because “[d]ark ATSs market their services to institutional
customers and prospective customers on a continuous basis . . . institutions know full well what
types of customers each ATS caters to and the services they offer.” 212 BNY ConvergEx Group
acknowledged that “some retail investors may not understand precisely how dark ATSs operate,”
but opined that “[a]ny perceived lack of information for retail investors about an ATS’s trading
services would only become an issue if the ATS was to become subject to the Fair Access
provisions of Regulation ATS,” and that “because retail investors are unlikely to pass the
objective credit and other financial standards that would be required under a Fair Access regime
to become subscribers of the ATS, this may not be a real issue.” 213
The Commission received two comment letters on its Market Structure website relevant
to the Commission’s proposal to amend Regulation ATS. 214
Blackrock submitted the same comment letter to the Market Structure website that it
submitted with respect to the 2010 Equity Market Structure Release. 215 Citadel expressed the

211

Bloomberg L.P. letter, supra note175, at 4-5.

212

BNY ConvergEx Group letter, supra note175, at 18, 21.

213

See id. at 21.

214

See Blackrock letter, supra note 175; letter from John C. Nagel, Managing Director and
Senior Deputy Counsel, Citadel LLC, dated July 21, 2014 (“Citadel letter”). See also
Securities and Exchange Commission Market Structure website (“Market Structure
website”), http://www.sec.gov/marketstructure/.

215

See Blackrock letter, supra notes 175, 185, 186, and 203 and accompanying text.

73

view that “dark pools should be subject to increased transparency,” and that “ATS operational
information and filings should be publicly available.” 216
The Commission has considered these comments, and, for the reasons set forth
throughout this release, is proposing the amendments to Regulation ATS and Exchange Act Rule
3a1-1 as described herein.

216

See Citadel letter, supra note 214, at 4.

74

IV.

Proposed Amendments to Regulation ATS and Rule 3a1-1 to Heighten Regulatory
Requirements for ATSs that Transact in NMS Stocks
A. Proposed Definition of NMS Stock ATS
The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 300 of Regulation ATS to provide for the

definition of “NMS Stock ATS” in a new paragraph (k). The purpose of proposed Rule 300(k) is
to specify the type of ATS that would be subject to the heightened conditions under Exchange
Act Rule 3a1-1, as described further below. Proposed Rule 300(k) would define “NMS Stock
ATS” to mean an “an alternative trading system, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 300(a), that
facilitates transactions in NMS stocks, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 300(g).” 217 Rule 300(g)
of Regulation ATS currently provides, and would continue to provide, that the term “NMS
stock” has the meaning provided in Exchange Act Rule 600 of Regulation NMS; provided,
however, that a debt or convertible debt security shall not be deemed an NMS stock for purposes
of Regulation ATS. 218 Pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 600(b), an NMS stock is any NMS
security other than an option, 219 and an NMS security is “any security or class of securities for
which transaction reports are collected, processed, and made available pursuant to an effective
transaction reporting plan, or an effective national market system plan.” 220 Thus, under the

217

See proposed Rule 300(k).

218

See 17 CFR 242.300(g).

219

See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(47).

220

See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(46). Transaction reports for securities that are listed and
registered, or admitted to unlisted trading privileges on a national securities exchange, are
collected, processed, and made available pursuant to the Consolidated Tape Association
(“CTA”) plan (“CTA Plan”) and the OTC/UTP Plan. See, e.g., CTA Plan (dated as of
October 1, 2013), https://www.ctaplan.com/publicdocs/ctaplan/notifications/plans/traderupdate/5929.pdf at 34 (describing the types of securities to which the CTA plan
applies).

75

proposed amendment to Regulation ATS, an NMS Stock ATS would include any ATS that
effects transactions in securities that are listed on a national securities exchange (other than
options, debt or convertible debt). In addition, to meet the definition of an NMS Stock ATS, the
organization, association, person, group of persons or system must meet the definition of an
alternative trading system under Rule 300(a) of Regulation ATS. 221

See also Joint Self-Regulatory Organization Plan Governing the Collection,
Consolidation and Dissemination of Quotation and Transaction Information for NasdaqListed Securities Traded on Exchange on an Unlisted Trading Privilege Basis,
http://web.archive.org/web/20070114023844/http://www.utpdata.com/docs/UTP_PlanA
mendment.pdf at 2, 10-13 (“OTC/UTP Plan”) (describing the securities for which
transaction information is collected and disseminated as any Nasdaq Global Market or
Nasdaq Capital Market security, as defined in then-operative NASDAQ Rule 4200).
Nasdaq Rule 5005(a)(26) defines Nasdaq Global Market security as: any security listed
on Nasdaq that (1) satisfies all applicable requirements of the Rule 5100 and 5200 Series
and meets the criteria set forth in the Rule 5400 Series; (2) is a right to purchase such
security; (3) is a warrant to subscribe to such security; or (4) is an Index Warrant which
meets the criteria set forth in Rule 5725(a). Nasdaq Rule 5005(a)(28) defines Nasdaq
Capital Market security as: any security listed on The Nasdaq Capital Market that (1)
satisfies all applicable requirements of the Rule 5100, 5200 and 5500 Series but that is
not a Nasdaq Global Market security; (2) is a right to purchase such security; or (3) is a
warrant to subscribe to such security.
These plans are filed with, and approved by, the Commission in accordance with the
requirements of Rule 608 of Regulation NMS, and pursuant to Rule 601 of Regulation
NMS, which requires every national securities exchange to “file a transaction reporting
plan regarding transactions in listed equity and Nasdaq securities executed through its
facilities” and every national securities association to “file a transaction reporting plan
regarding transactions in listed equity and Nasdaq securities executed by its members
otherwise than on a national securities exchange.”
221

17 CFR 242.300(a).
As it did in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission notes that whether
the actual execution of the order takes place on the system is not a determining factor of
whether a system falls under Rule 3b-16. A trading system that falls within the
Commission’s functional definition of ‘‘exchange’’ pursuant to Rule 3b-16 will still be
an ‘‘exchange,’’ even if it matches two trades and routes them to another system or
exchange for execution. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 7085170852.

76

The Commission requests comment on the proposed definition of NMS Stock ATS. In
particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
1.

Do you believe the Commission should adopt a more limited or expansive
definition of NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

2.

Should the Commission create the NMS Stock ATS category? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

3.

Should the Commission modify its proposed definition in any way? If so, in what
way and why? If not, why not? Please support your arguments.

B. Rule 3a1-1(a)(2): Proposed Amendments to the Exemption from the Definition of
“Exchange” for NMS Stock ATSs
Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a) exempts from the definition of “exchange”: (1) any
alternative trading system operated by a national securities association, 222 (2) any alternative
trading system that complies with Regulation ATS, 223 and (3) any alternative trading system that
under Rule 301(a) of Regulation ATS is not required to comply with Regulation ATS. 224 Most
ATSs fall within the second prong of Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1 and thus, must comply with
Regulation ATS to qualify for an exemption from the statutory definition of an “exchange.”
As discussed in more detail below, the Commission is now proposing to expand the
conditions with which NMS Stock ATSs would be required to comply in order to use the
exemption from the definition of “exchange.” To provide for these new conditions, the

222

17 CFR 240.3a1-1(a)(1).

223

17 CFR 240.3a1-1(a)(2).

224

17 CFR 240.3a1-1(a)(3).

77

Commission is proposing to amend Rules 3a1-1(a)(2) and (3) to include proposed Rule 304
within the scope of Regulation ATS. 225 Amended Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) would condition the
exemption for any ATS that meets the definition of “NMS Stock ATS” on compliance with
Rules 300 through 303 of Regulation ATS (except Rule 301(b)(2)) and proposed Rule 304. 226
The Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3a1-1(a)(3) by changing the reference to Rule 303
to proposed Rule 304. This is merely a conforming change to make clear that an NMS Stock
ATS that meets the requirements of Rule 301(a) is not required to comply with Regulation ATS,
which would be amended to include proposed Rule 304. Rule 3a1-1(a)(1), which exempts any
ATS that is operated by a national securities association, is not impacted by the amendments the
Commission is proposing today.
The Commission preliminarily believes that amending the conditions to the Rule 3a1-1(a)
exemption would more appropriately calibrate the level of operational transparency between
registered national securities exchanges and NMS Stock ATSs, which in many regards, are
functionally similar trading centers, while maintaining the regulatory framework that permits
NMS Stock ATSs to decide whether to register and be regulated as broker-dealers or as national

225

In Exchange Act Rules 3a1-1(a)(2) and (3), Regulation ATS is currently defined as “17
CFR 242.300 through 242.303.” The Commission is proposing to amend these
references to Regulation ATS to define Regulation ATS as “17 CFR 242.300 through
242.304.”

226

See infra Section IV.C. Specifically, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3a11(a)(2) by changing the reference to Rule 303 to proposed Rule 304. Under the proposal,
an NMS Stock ATS would not be required to file the reports and amendments that it is
currently required to file on Form ATS pursuant to Rule 302(b)(2), unless the ATS also
effects transactions in securities other than NMS stock and is not otherwise exempt. See
proposed Rule 301(b)(2)(viii).

78

securities exchanges. 227 The Commission notes, as it has in other contexts,228 that SRO and nonSRO markets, such as NMS Stock ATSs, are subject to different regulatory regimes, with a
different mix of benefits and obligations. Pursuant to this proposal, NMS Stock ATSs would
continue to be able to choose to register as national securities exchanges or as broker-dealers.
The Commission is proposing, however, to increase the scope of the conditions to the exemption
for the purpose of providing more transparency around the operations of NMS Stock ATSs and
potential conflicts of interest resulting from the unique relationship between the broker-dealer
operator and the NMS Stock ATS, as discussed further below. While questions have been raised
in other contexts as to whether the broader regulatory framework for national securities
exchanges and ATSs should be harmonized, 229 the Commission preliminarily believes that the
proposals are an appropriate response to concerns about the need for transparency about the
operations of NMS Stock ATSs and potential conflicts of interest resulting from the activities of
their broker-dealer operators and the broker-dealer operators’ affiliates. The Commission
preliminarily believes that the proposals would help market participants make better informed
decisions about where to route their orders for execution; the proposed disclosures would also
provide the Commission with improved tools to carry out its oversight of NMS Stock ATSs.
Moreover, as explained above, the Commission is concerned that market participants have
limited information about the increasingly complex operations of NMS Stock ATSs, 230 and need
more transparency on NMS Stock ATSs to fully evaluate how their orders are handled and
227

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70856-70857.

228

See, e.g., SCI Adopting Release, supra note 17, at 72264.

229

See id.

230

See supra Sections III.B and C.

79

executed on NMS Stock ATSs. The Commission preliminarily believes that the enhanced
disclosures about the operations of NMS Stock ATSs elicited by proposed Form ATS-N would
provide better information about how NMS Stock ATSs operate and, thereby, enable the
Commission to determine whether additional regulatory changes for either or both national
securities exchanges and ATSs are necessary.
The Commission has considered the alternative of requiring different levels of disclosure
among NMS Stock ATSs based on volume. 231 However, the Commission preliminarily believes
that it is necessary and appropriate for the protection of market participants to apply the proposed
heightened conditions for the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption to all NMS Stock ATSs. The
Commission notes that market participants may subscribe to multiple ATSs and route orders in
NMS stocks among various ATSs prior to receiving an execution. The Commission
preliminarily believes that because orders in NMS stocks may be routed to any NMS Stock ATS,
regardless of the volume traded on the NMS Stock ATS, all market participants would benefit
from the disclosures provided pursuant to proposed Rule 304. Accordingly, the Commission
believes that the proposed rules addressing greater operational transparency should apply equally
to all NMS Stock ATSs.
The Commission requests comment on the scope of the proposed amendments to Rules
3a1-1(a)(2) and (3), which would apply the proposed new conditions of Rule 304 to all NMS
Stock ATSs. In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
4.

Do you believe that the current conditions to the exemption from the definition of
“exchange” for NMS Stock ATSs are appropriate in light of market developments

231

See infra Section XIII.D.4.

80

since Regulation ATS was adopted in 1998? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.
5.

Do you believe there is sufficient transparency with respect to the operations of
NMS Stock ATSs? If not, what information do you believe should be disclosed
regarding the operations of an NMS Stock ATS, how frequently should it be
disclosed, and why? Does the need for, and availability of, information about the
operations of NMS Stock ATSs vary among market participants? If so, how?
Please explain in detail.

6.

Do you believe there is sufficient transparency with respect to the activities of the
broker-dealer operator and its affiliates in connection with NMS Stock ATSs? If
not, what information do you believe should be disclosed regarding the activities
of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates and why? Does the need for, and
availability of, information about the activities of the broker-dealer operator and
its affiliates vary among market participants? If so, how? Please explain in
detail.

7.

Should the Commission adopt the proposal to apply the requirements of proposed
Rule 304 to all NMS Stock ATSs? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

8.

Do you believe that the Commission should provide any exceptions to the
application of proposed Rule 304 to NMS Stock ATSs seeking to operate
pursuant to the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption? Why or why not? For example,
should the requirements to comply with proposed Rule 304, including the
disclosure requirements of proposed Form ATS-N, only be applicable to NMS
81

Stock ATSs that meet certain thresholds (such dollar volume, trading volume, or
number of subscribers)? If so, what should the threshold be, and why? If not,
why not? Please support your arguments.
9.

Do you believe that the Commission should require different levels of disclosure
for any proposed Form ATS-N items based on the NMS Stock ATS’s volume? If
so, why, what should the different thresholds be, and which items on proposed
Form ATS-N should depend on an NMS Stock ATS’s volume? If not, why not?
Please support your arguments.

At this time, the Commission preliminarily believes that the above operational
transparency conditions to the exemption to Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a) should only apply to
NMS Stock ATSs. The Commission, however, requests comment and data on whether its
preliminary view is warranted for each category of non-NMS stock ATS.
First, approximately 27 ATSs that currently have a Forms ATS on file with the
Commission disclose that they exclusively trade fixed income securities, such as corporate or
municipal bonds, and approximately 2 ATSs effect transactions in both fixed income securities
and other securities, including NMS stocks.232 Based on Commission experience, the equity
markets, which are generally highly automated trading centers that are connected through routing
networks, operate and execute orders at rapid speeds using a variety of order types. Unlike the
complex trading centers of the equity markets, the Commission preliminarily believes that fixed
income markets currently rely less on speed, automation, and electronic trading to execute orders

232

Data compiled from Forms ATS and ATS-R submitted to the Commission as of
November 1, 2015.

82

and other trading interest,233 although that may be changing in some fixed income markets such
as those that trade certain government securities. 234 Generally, fixed income ATSs offer less
complex order types to their subscribers than those offered by NMS Stock ATSs, sometimes
restricting incoming orders to limit orders, and the execution of matched interest involves
negotiation or a process. In addition, the municipal and corporate fixed income markets tend to
be less liquid than the equity markets, with slower execution times and less complex routing
strategies. 235
Furthermore, market participants trading fixed income securities are typically not
comparing transparent trading venues against non-transparent trading venues in the same manner
as market participants seeking to execute NMS stock orders. Although two affiliated national
securities exchanges operate electronic systems for receiving, processing, executing, and
reporting bids, offers and executions in fixed income debt securities, 236 the Commission
preliminarily believes that the majority of trading in fixed income securities occurs on the

233

See SCI Adopting Release, supra note 17, at 72270.

234

See October 15 Staff Report, infra note 247 at 35-36.

235

See SCI Adopting Release, supra note 17, at 72270.

236

See Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 55496 (March 20, 2007) 72 FR 14631 (March
28, 2007) (NYSE-2006-37) (approving the establishment of NYSE Bonds as an
electronic order-driven matching system for debt securities, including, but not limited to
corporate bonds (including convertible bonds), international bank bonds, foreign
government bonds, U.S. government bonds, government agency bonds, municipal bonds,
and debt-based structured products under NYSE Rule 86) and 58839 (October 23, 2008)
73 FR 64645 (October 30, 2008) (NYSEALTR-2008-03) (notice of filing and immediate
effectiveness of the Exchange’s proposal to relocate the Exchange’s debt trading and
adopt NYSEAlternext Equities Rule 86 (now NYSEMKT – Equities Rule 86) in order to
facilitate trading on the system NYSE Alternext Bonds system (now NYSEMKT
Bonds)).

83

bilateral market. 237 As such, ATSs that effect trades in fixed income securities primarily
compete against other trading venues with limited or no operational transparency requirements or
standards. By contrast, NMS Stock ATSs, which provide limited information to market
participants about their operations, compete directly with national securities exchanges, which
are required to publicly disclose information about their operations in the form of proposed rule
changes and a public rule book. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that any
proposed revisions to the disclosure requirements for fixed income ATSs under Regulation ATS
should be specifically tailored to the attributes of the fixed income market and, therefore, may
require different changes to the current Regulation ATS regime and Form ATS than those being
proposed herein, which are in direct response to specific transparency concerns related to the
operational complexities of NMS Stock ATSs and market participants’ general inability to
compare NMS Stock ATSs to one another and to national securities exchanges.
The Commission recognizes, however, that trading on fixed income ATSs continues to
evolve as fixed income securities are increasingly being traded on ATSs and that trading is
occurring in an automated manner. Furthermore, while the specific conflicts of interest that
might arise on NMS Stock ATSs operated by multiservice broker dealers may not be identical to
the potential conflicts of interest that might arise on a fixed income ATS, 238 the current
operations of fixed income ATSs may give rise to potential conflicts of interest between the non237

For interdealer trading for “benchmark” U.S. Treasury securities, however, trading occurs
mainly on centralized electronic trading platforms using a central limit order book,
namely ATSs. See October 15 Staff Report, infra note 247 at 11.

238

For instance, the Commission preliminarily believes that non-ATS business units of
broker-dealer operators of fixed income ATSs may not trade proprietarily on their ATSs
to the same extent that proprietary trading desks, or other business units, of multiservice
broker-dealer operators trade on NMS Stock ATSs.

84

ATS operations of a broker-dealer operator, or its affiliates, and the fixed income ATS.
Accordingly, the Commission seeks comment on the following:
10.

Do you believe that market participants have sufficient information about the
operations of fixed income ATSs to evaluate such ATSs as potential trading
venues? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

11.

Do you believe that the Commission should apply proposed Rule 304, in whole or
in part, to fixed income ATSs, or some subset of fixed income ATSs? Why or
why not? If proposed Rule 304 should be applied only in part to fixed income
ATSs, which parts should be applied and why? What, if any, specific
modifications or additions to proposed Rule 304 should be made in any
application of it to fixed income ATSs? Please support your arguments.

12.

Do you believe that fixed income ATSs raise the same or similar operational
transparency concerns that the Commission preliminarily believes to exist for
NMS Stock ATSs? Why or why not? Please support your arguments. If not, do
you believe that fixed income ATSs raise other operational transparency concerns
that warrant inclusion of fixed income ATSs within the scope of proposed Rule
304? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

13.

Do you believe that there are potential conflicts of interest for broker-dealer
operators of fixed income ATSs, or their affiliates, that may warrant inclusion of
fixed income ATSs within the scope of proposed Rule 304? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments. If yes, what are those potential conflicts of
interest and how do those potential conflicts of interest differ from or resemble

85

the potential conflicts of interest for broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs
and their affiliates? Please be specific.
14.

Do you believe that the current conditions to the exemption from the definition of
“exchange” are appropriate for fixed income ATSs? Why or why not? Please
support your arguments.

15.

Do you believe that applying proposed Rule 304 to fixed income ATSs would
place them at a competitive disadvantage with respect to non-ATS trading venues
that trade fixed income securities and would not be subject to such disclosure
requirements? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

16.

Should the Commission adopt a new form that is designed specifically to solicit
information about the operations of fixed income ATSs or the operations of
certain types of fixed income ATSs? If so, please explain, in detail, the
information the new form should require. If not, why not? Please support your
arguments. Do you believe that part or all of any new form designed specifically
for fixed income ATSs should be made available to the public? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

As noted above, the Commission recognizes that fixed income securities markets
continue to evolve as fixed income securities are increasingly being traded on ATSs in an
automated manner. Thus, under the current regulatory requirements, market participants
generally do not have information about how fixed income ATSs operate as ATSs are not

86

otherwise required to publicly disclose such information 239 and Forms ATS filed with the
Commission by fixed income ATSs are deemed confidential.
As such, the Commission is seeking public comment on whether it should make public
current Forms ATS filed by fixed income ATSs. Though the solicitations on current Form ATS
are not specifically tailored to fixed income ATSs like proposed Form ATS-N would be tailored
to NMS Stock ATSs, market participants could use the information to assess and compare fixed
income ATSs when deciding where to trade fixed income securities. The Commission is
cognizant, however, that fixed income ATSs currently file Form ATS with the understanding
that the Form ATS is deemed confidential and thus, a fixed income ATS may not have chosen to
operate as an alternative trading system if its Form ATS filing was originally intended to be
made public. In response to any change in the regulatory requirements, a fixed income ATS may
change its business model and choose to curtail its activities or cease operating as an ATS.
Accordingly, the Commission seeks comment on the following:
17.

Do you believe that the current Forms ATS initial operation report, or parts
thereof, filed by fixed income ATSs should be made available to the public? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments.

18.

Do you believe that amendments to Form ATS initial operation reports, or parts
thereof, filed by fixed income ATSs should be made available to the public? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments.

19.

Do you believe that current Form ATS is sufficient to elicit useful information
about the operations of fixed income ATSs? If so, why? If not, in what ways

239

The Commission does note, however, that some ATSs may currently make voluntary
public disclosures. See, e.g., infra note 156.

87

should Form ATS be modified to better inform the Commission about the
operations of fixed income ATSs? Please explain in detail the manner in which
Form ATS should be modified for fixed income ATSs.
20.

Do you believe that fixed income ATSs may curtail or cease operations if the
Commission rescinded the confidential treatment of Form ATS and made Forms
ATS filed by fixed income ATSs public? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

21.

Do you believe that if fixed income ATSs curtail or cease operations in response
to the Commission rescinding the confidentiality of the Form ATS, the limitation
or exit of those ATSs from the fixed income market would impact the quality of
the fixed income markets in any way? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

The questions above relate to all fixed income securities, but the Commission is also
interested in learning commenters’ specific views about whether ATSs that effect transactions in
fixed income securities that are government securities, as defined under the Exchange Act,240
should be subject to increased regulation, operational transparency requirements, or both. Under
Rule 301(a)(4) of Regulation ATS, an ATS that solely trades government securities and is
registered as a broker-dealer or is a bank is exempt from the requirement to either register as a
national securities exchange or comply with Regulation ATS. 241 If an ATS trades both

240

See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(42) (defining “government securities” as, among other things,
“securities which are direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed as to principal or
interest by, the United States”).

241

See 17 CFR 242.301(a)(4)(i) and (ii)(A).

88

government securities and non-government securities – such as NMS stocks, corporate or
municipal fixed income securities – it must either register as a national securities exchange or
comply with Regulation ATS. However, these ATSs are not subject to several requirements
under Regulation ATS with regard to their trading in government securities. First, ATSs that do
not trade NMS stocks are not subject to the order display and execution access provisions under
Rule 301(b)(3).242 Additionally, the government securities activities of ATSs that trade both
government and other securities are not subject to either the fair access provisions of Rule
301(b)(5) 243 or the capacity, integrity, and security of automated systems provisions under Rule
301(b)(6).244
Pursuant to the Exchange Act (particularly the provisions of the Government Securities
Act of 1986, as amended 245) and federal banking laws, brokers and dealers in the government
securities market are regulated jointly by the Commission, the United States Department of the
Treasury (“U.S. Treasury Department”), and federal banking regulators. 246 Recently, staff
members from the U.S. Treasury Department, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the Commission, and the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission issued a joint report about the unusually high level of volatility and
242

See supra notes 86-90 and accompanying text.

243

See supra notes 92-94 and accompanying text.

244

See supra notes 96-97 and accompanying text.

245

See Public Law 99-571, October 28, 1986, and Public Law 103-202, December 17, 1993.

246

The Government Securities Act authorized the U.S. Treasury Department to promulgate
rules governing transactions in government securities by government securities brokers
and dealers. See October 15 Staff Report, infra note 247, at 9. The Commission,
FINRA, and federal bank regulators – in consultation with the U.S. Treasury Department
– also have the authority to issue sales practice rules for the government securities
secondary market. See id.

89

rapid round-trip in prices that occurred in the U.S. Treasury market on October 15, 2014 (the
“October 15 Staff Report”).247 The October 15 Staff Report discusses the conditions that
contributed to the October 15, 2014 developments and key findings from the analysis of data
from that day.
The October 15 Staff Report also provides an overview of the market structure, liquidity,
and applicable regulations of the U.S. Treasury market, as well as the broad changes to the
structure of the U.S. Treasury market that have occurred over the past two decades. 248 For the
secondary market in cash U.S. Treasury securities (“Treasury securities”), the October 15 Staff
Report explains that trading occurs: (1) in bilateral transactions via voice or a variety of
electronic means; or (2) on centralized electronic trading platforms using a central limit order
book. 249 The October 15 Staff Report notes that the structure of the U.S. Treasury market has
“evolved notably in recent years” and electronic trading has become an increasingly important
feature of the modern interdealer market for Treasury securities. 250 Like modern-day trading in
NMS stocks, the majority of interdealer trading in benchmark Treasury securities, 251 which is the

247

See Joint Staff Report: The U.S. Treasury Market on October 15, 2014 (July 13, 2015)
(the “October 15 Staff Report”), http://www.treasury.gov/press-center/pressreleases/Documents/Joint_Staff_Report_Treasury_10-15-2015.pdf.

248

See October 15 Staff Report, supra note 247, at 8-14, 35-44.

249

See id. at 11.

250

See id. at 35.

251

Benchmark issues are the most recently issued nominal coupon securities. See id. at 11.
Nominal coupon securities pay a fixed semi-annual coupon and are currently issued at
original maturities of 2, 3, 5, 7, 10, and 30 years. See id. at 11, n.6.

90

most liquid type of Treasury security, currently occurs on centralized electronic trading
platforms using a central limit order book, namely ATSs. 252
The October 15 Staff Report notes that the growth in high-speed electronic trading has
contributed to the growing presence of Principal trading firms (“PTFs”) in the Treasury market,
with these firms accounting for the majority of trading and providing the vast majority of market
depth. 253 PTFs, which have direct access to electronic trading platforms for Treasury securities,
now represent more than half of the trading activity on electronic interdealer trading platforms
for Treasury securities. 254 Similar to HFTs in the equity markets, PTFs trading on the
electronically brokered interdealer market for Treasury securities often employ automated
algorithmic trading strategies that rely on speed and allow the PTFs to cancel or modify existing
quotes in response to perceived market activity. 255 Furthermore, most PTFs trading Treasury
securities on electronic platforms also restrict their activities to proprietary trading and do not
hold long positions. 256
The October 15 Staff Report also notes that increased trading speed due to automated
trading in the U.S. Treasury market has challenged the traditional risk management protocols for
market participants, trading platforms, and clearing firms. 257 The October 15 Staff Report notes

252

See id. at 11, 35-36. The October 15 Staff Report also notes that the majority of
interdealer trading of “seasoned” Treasury securities and the majority of dealer-tocustomer trading is via bilateral transactions. See id. at 11, 35-36 n.31.

253

See id. at 36.

254

See id.

255

See id. at 32, 35-36, 39.

256

See id. at 38.

257

See id. at 36.

91

that automated trading can occur at speeds that exceed the capacity of manual detection and
intervention, posing a challenge to traditional risk management protocols, and forcing market
participants, trading platforms, and clearing firms to develop internal risk controls and processes
to manage the potential for rapidly changing market and counterparty risk exposures. 258
As indicated in the October 15 Staff Report, the staff of the U.S. Treasury Department,
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York,
the Commission, and the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission plan to continue to
analyze the events of October 15, 2014 and examine changes to the U.S. Treasury market
structure. The October 15 Staff Report identified four areas for further work. One of the four
areas includes the continued monitoring of trading and risk management practices across the
U.S. Treasury market and a review of the current regulatory requirements applicable to the
government securities market and its participants. 259 In connection with this, the cross-agency
staff expressed support for a review of the current regulatory requirements applicable to the
government securities market and its participants and suggested studying the implications of a
registration requirement for firms conducting certain types of automated trading in the U.S.
Treasury market and for government securities trading venues. 260 The staff also recommended
an assessment of the data available to the public and to the official sector on U.S. Treasury cash
securities markets, which would include efforts to enhance public reporting on U.S. Treasury
market venue policies and services. 261
258

See id. at 36-37.

259

See id. at 45.

260

See id. at 47.

261

See id. at 48.

92

Based on the rapid and continued evolution of the market for government securities, the
Commission is seeking comment on whether as part of its continued cooperation and
coordination with other regulators, it should include ATSs whose trading activity is solely in
government securities within the scope of current Regulation ATS and amend Regulation ATS to
provide for enhanced operational transparency for ATSs that trade government securities. 262
Specifically, the Commission seeks comment on the following:
22.

Do you that believe market participants have sufficient information about the
operations of ATSs that effect transactions in government securities in order to
evaluate such ATSs as potential trading venues? Why or why not? Please
support your arguments.

23.

Do you believe that the Commission should adopt amendments to Regulation
ATS to remove the exemption under Rule 301(a)(4)(ii)(A) of Regulation ATS for
ATSs whose trading activity is solely in government securities? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments. If so, do you believe that the Commission should
make public Form ATS filings or otherwise increase the transparency
requirements under Regulation ATS for ATSs whose sole trading activity is in
government securities? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

24.

Do you believe that the Commission should adopt amendments to Regulation
ATS to enhance the transparency requirements applicable to ATSs that effect

262

Prior to adopting any changes to Regulation ATS with regard to ATSs that trade
government securities, the Commission would, as appropriate, consult with and consider
the views of the Secretary of the Treasury and any other appropriate regulatory agencies.
See 15 U.S.C. 78o(c)(2)(E).

93

transactions in both government securities and non-government securities? Why
or why not? If so, how? Please support your arguments.
25.

Do you believe that ATSs that effect transactions in government securities raise
the same operational transparency concerns that the Commission preliminarily
believes to exist for NMS Stock ATSs? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments. If not, do you believe that ATSs that effect transactions in
government securities raise other operational transparency concerns that warrant
expanding the scope of Regulation ATS to encompass ATSs whose sole trading
activity is in government securities or increasing the transparency requirements
for ATSs that effect transactions in both government securities and nongovernment securities? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

26.

Do you believe that there are potential conflicts of interest for broker-dealer
operators of ATSs, or their affiliates, that effect transactions in government
securities that may justify greater operational transparency for ATSs that effect
transactions in government securities? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments. If yes, what are those potential conflicts of interest and how do those
potential conflicts of interest differ from or resemble the potential conflicts of
interest for broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs and their affiliates?
Please be specific.

27.

Do you believe that current Form ATS is sufficient to elicit information about the
operations of ATSs that effect transactions in government securities? If not, in
what ways should Form ATS be modified to better inform the Commission about
the operations of ATSs that effect transactions in government securities? Please
94

explain in detail the manner in which Form ATS should be modified. Do you
believe that the current Forms ATS, or parts thereof, for ATSs that effect
transactions in government securities and non-government securities should be
made available to the public? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
28.

Do you believe that the Commission should adopt amendments to existing rules
under Regulation ATS, including, Rules 301(b)(3) (order display and execution
access), 301(b)(5) (fair access), and 301(b)(6) (capacity, integrity, and security of
automated systems), to make those rules applicable to trading in government
securities on ATSs? Why or why not? If so, how? Please provide support for
your arguments. Should the Commission adopt amendments to Rule 301(b)(3) of
Regulation ATS to require ATSs that trade government securities to report quotes
and/or trade information for public dissemination after crossing certain volume
thresholds in a government security? Should such information be reported only
after a delay? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

29.

Do you believe that the Commission should apply proposed Rule 304, in whole or
in part, to ATSs that effect transactions in government securities? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments.

30.

Do you believe that the Commission should adopt a new form that is specifically
designed to solicit information about the operations of ATSs that effect
transactions in government securities? If so, please explain, in detail, the
information the new form should require from ATSs that effect transactions in
government securities. If not, why not? Please support your arguments. Do you
believe that any new form designed specifically for ATSs that effect transactions
95

in government securities should be made available to the public? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments.
31.

Do you believe that broker-dealers that effect transactions in government
securities may modify their business models in order to need not comply with
Regulation ATS in response to enhanced regulatory or operational transparency
requirements for ATSs that effect transactions in government securities? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

There are also ATSs whose activity is solely the facilitation of trading in OTC Equity
Securities. 263 At this time, the Commission preliminarily believes that many of its specific
concerns related to the current operations of NMS Stock ATSs, which proposed Rule 304 and
proposed Form ATS-N seek to address directly, are not equally applicable to OTC Equity
Securities ATSs. The Commission preliminarily believes that OTC Equity Securities ATSs do
not currently operate with the same complexities as NMS Stock ATSs. Additionally, trading in
OTC Equity Securities is almost always facilitated through ATSs, through inter-dealer quotation
systems that are not ATSs, 264 or elsewhere in the bilateral market. Accordingly, trading in the

263

For the purposes of this analysis and request for comment, the Commission is using the
term “OTC Equity Security” as it is defined in FINRA’s 6400 rule series for quoting and
trading in OTC Equity Securities. FINRA defines OTC Equity Security as “any equity
security that is not an ‘NMS stock’ as that term is defined in Rule 600(b)(47) of SEC
Regulation NMS; provided, however, that the term ‘OTC Equity Security’ shall not
include any Restricted Equity Security,” which FINRA defines as “any equity security
that meets the definition of ‘restricted security’ as contained in Securities Act Rule
144(a)(3).” See FINRA Rules 6420(f), (k).

264

FINRA Rule 6420 defines an interdealer quotation system as “any system of general
circulation to brokers or dealers which regularly disseminates quotations of identified
brokers or dealers.” See FINRA Rule 6420(c). An example of an interdealer quotation
system is the OTC Bulletin Board that FINRA operates.

96

market for OTC Equity Securities is typically facilitated by platforms or amongst market
participants that are not subject to operational transparency requirements comparable to those
imposed on national securities exchanges (i.e., the self-regulatory organization rule filing
process). The Commission also preliminarily believes that OTC Equity Securities ATSs are
evolving and, therefore, the Commission seeks comment on the following:
32.

Do you believe that market participants have sufficient information about the
operations of OTC Equity Securities ATSs to evaluate such ATSs as potential
trading venues? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

33.

Do you believe that OTC Equity Securities ATSs raise the same operational
transparency concerns that the Commission preliminarily believes to exist for
NMS Stock ATSs? Why or why not? Please support your arguments. If not, do
you believe that OTC Equity Securities ATSs raise other operational transparency
concerns that warrant inclusion of OTC Equity Securities ATSs within the scope
of proposed Rule 304? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

34.

Do you believe that there are potential conflicts of interest for broker-dealer
operators of ATSs, and their affiliates, that facilitate transactions in OTC Equity
Securities that may justify greater operational transparency for OTC Equity
Securities ATSs? Why or why not? Please support your arguments. If yes, what
are those potential conflicts of interest and how do those potential conflicts of
interest differ from or resemble the potential conflicts of interest for broker-dealer
operators of NMS Stock ATSs and their affiliates? Please be specific.

97

35.

Do you believe that the Commission should apply proposed Rule 304, in whole or
in part, to OTC Equity Securities ATSs? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

36.

Do you believe that applying proposed Rule 304 to OTC Equity Securities ATSs
would place them at a competitive disadvantage with respect to other trading
venues that facilitate transactions in OTC Equity Securities in the bilateral market,
which would not be subject to such disclosure requirements? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

37.

Do you believe that current Form ATS is sufficient to elicit relevant information
about the operations of OTC Equity Securities ATSs? If so, why? If not, in what
ways should Form ATS be modified to better inform the Commission about the
operations of OTC Equity Securities ATSs? Please explain in detail the manner
in which Form ATS could be modified. Do you believe that the current filed
Forms ATS, or parts thereof, for OTC Equity Securities ATSs should be made
available to the public? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

38.

Do you believe that the Commission should adopt a new form that is designed
specifically for OTC Equity Securities ATSs to promote operational transparency
of such ATSs? If so, please explain, in detail, the information the new form
should require. If not, why not? Please support your arguments. Do you believe
that any new form designed specifically for OTC Equity Securities ATSs should
be made available to the public? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

98

Additionally, the Commission notes that there are active ATSs that trade in securities
other than NMS stocks, fixed income securities, or OTC Equity Securities. 265 For example, an
ATS might help match orders for options contracts or facilitate trades in cooperative interests or
membership units in limited liability companies. At this time, the Commission does not believe
that these ATSs raise the same operational transparency concerns as NMS Stock ATSs. The
products traded on these ATSs are not traded on national securities exchanges and, therefore,
these ATSs are not competing against platforms with greater transparency requirements.
Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily believes that ATSs that trade in securities other than
NMS stocks, fixed income securities, or OTC Equity Securities do not currently operate with the
same complexities as NMS Stock ATSs. For such ATSs, however, the Commission seeks
comment on the following:
39.

Do you believe that market participants have sufficient information about the
operations of ATSs that effect or facilitate transactions in securities other than
NMS stocks, fixed income securities, or OTC Equity Securities as potential
trading venues? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

40.

Do you believe that ATSs that effect or facilitate transactions in securities other
than NMS stocks, fixed income securities, or OTC Equity Securities raise the
same operational transparency concerns that the Commission preliminarily
believes to exist for NMS Stock ATSs? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

265

The Commission notes that, based on information provided on Forms ATS and ATS-R as
of November 1, 2015, 5 ATSs may trade such securities.

99

41.

Do you believe that there are potential conflicts of interest for broker-dealer
operators of ATSs, and their affiliates, that effect or facilitate transactions in
securities other than NMS stocks, fixed income securities, or OTC Equity
Securities that may justify greater operational transparency for ATSs that effect or
facilitate transactions in securities other than NMS stocks, fixed income
securities, or OTC Equity Securities? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments. If yes, what are those potential conflicts of interest and how do those
potential conflicts of interest differ from or resemble the potential conflicts of
interest for broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs and their affiliates?
Please be specific.

42.

Do you believe that the Commission should apply proposed Rule 304, in whole or
in part, to ATSs that effect or facilitate transactions in securities other than NMS
stocks, fixed income securities, or OTC Equity Securities? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments. If so, please explain the types of ATSs to which
proposed Rule 304 should apply and why. If not, why not? Please support your
arguments.

43.

Do you believe that Form ATS is sufficient to elicit useful information about the
operations of ATSs that effect or facilitate transactions in securities other than
NMS stocks, fixed income securities, or OTC Equity Securities? If so, why? If
not, in what ways should Form ATS be modified to better inform the Commission
about the operations of ATSs that effect or facilitate transactions in securities
other than NMS stocks, fixed income securities, or OTC Equity Securities?
Please explain in detail the manner in which Form ATS could be modified. Do
100

you believe that current filed Forms ATS, or parts thereof, for ATSs that effect or
facilitate transactions in securities other than NMS stocks, fixed income
securities, or OTC Equity Securities should be made available to the public? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments.
44.

Do you believe that the Commission should adopt a new form specifically
designed for ATSs that effect or facilitate transactions in securities other than
NMS stocks, fixed income securities, or OTC Equity Securities in order to
promote operational transparency of such ATSs? If so, please explain, in detail,
the information the new form should elicit from ATSs that effect or facilitate
transactions in such securities. If not, why not? Please support your arguments.
Do you believe that any new form designed specifically for ATSs that effect or
facilitate transactions in securities other than NMS stocks, fixed income
securities, or OTC Equity Securities should be made available to the public? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments.

C. Proposed Rule 304: Enhanced Filing Requirements for NMS Stock ATSs
1.

Application of Existing Requirements to NMS Stock ATSs

Proposed Rule 304(a) would require that, unless not required to comply with Regulation
ATS pursuant to Rule 301(a) of Regulation ATS, an NMS Stock ATS must comply with Rules
300 through 304 of Regulation ATS (except Rule 301(b)(2), as discussed in Section IV.C.2
below) to be exempt from the definition of an exchange pursuant to Rule 3a1-1(a)(2).266 The
266

As discussed above, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3a1-1(a) to provide for
modified conditions to the exemption set forth in proposed Rule 304. See supra Section
IV.B.

101

Commission is not proposing to change Rule 301(a) as part of this proposal, but is simply
making clear that Rule 301(a) continues to apply to NMS Stock ATSs, unless otherwise
exempt. 267 Thus, NMS Stock ATSs would still be required to comply with the existing
requirements of Rules 300 through 303 of Regulation ATS, and would additionally be required
to comply with proposed Rule 304.
The Commission also notes that the requirements of Rule 301(b) (except Rule 301(b)(2))
of Regulation ATS 268 would continue to apply to NMS Stock ATSs. As discussed above, Rule
301(b) sets forth the conditions with which an ATS must comply to benefit from the exemption
provided by Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a). 269 The Commission continues to believe that
compliance by NMS Stock ATSs with the provisions of Rule 301(b) of Regulation ATS (except
Rule 301(b)(2)), as amended, is a necessary and appropriate condition to the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2)
exemption from the definition of exchange in that the purpose of such condition is the protection
of investors. 270 The Commission would no longer require an NMS Stock ATS to comply with

267

Pursuant to Rule 301(a), certain ATSs that are subject to other appropriate regulations are
not required to comply with Regulation ATS. These ATSs include those that are:
registered as an exchange under Section 6 of the Exchange Act; exempt from exchange
registration based on limited volume; operated by a national securities association;
registered as a broker-dealer, under Sections 15(b) or 15C of the Exchange Act, or that is
a bank, that limits its securities activities to certain instruments; or exempted,
conditionally or unconditionally, by Commission order, after application by such
alternative trading system from one or more of the requirements of Rule 301(b). See 17
CFR 242.301(a). See also Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70859-63.

268

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(1), (b)(3)-(11).

269

See supra Section II.B.

270

See, e.g., Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70856. In adopting the
existing conditions in Rule 301, the Commission determined that the exemption in Rule
3a1-1 was consistent with the protection of investors because the Commission believed
that investors would benefit from the conditions governing an alternative trading system,

102

the reporting and amendment requirements of Rule 301(b)(2) because such conditions would be
replaced with the more specific disclosure requirements of proposed Rule 304 for NMS Stock
ATSs, discussed in further detail below. The Commission is also proposing to make nonsubstantive amendments to Rule 301(b)(2)(i) and Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) 271 to delete outdated
references to dates for phased in compliance with Regulation ATS for ATSs that were
operational as of April 21, 1999, and to update the name of the Division of Trading and Markets,
respectively. 272
The Commission requests comment generally on all aspects of proposed Rule 304(a).
2.

Rule 301(b)(2) and Form ATS; ATSs That Trade in Non-NMS Stocks

The Commission is proposing Rule 301(b)(2)(viii) to provide that an NMS Stock ATS
shall file the reports and amendments required by proposed Rule 304 and would not be subject to
the requirements of Rule 301(b)(2). Existing Rule 301(b)(2) requires an ATS to file with the
Commission a Form ATS initial operation report, amendments to the Form ATS initial operation
report, and cessation of operations reports on Form ATS, all of which are “deemed confidential
when filed.” 273 Because the Commission is proposing rules to govern the content and manner in
which an NMS Stock ATS would be required to disclose information to the public and the
Commission on proposed Form ATS-N, existing Rule 301(b)(2), which applies, and will

in particular Regulation ATS’s enhanced transparency, market access, system integrity,
and audit trail provisions. See id.
271

See proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(i) and (vii), respectively.

272

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(i) and (vii), respectively.

273

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2).

103

continue to apply, to ATSs that do not effect transactions in NMS stocks would be duplicative of
the proposed amendments. 274
Proposed Rule 301(b)(2)(viii) would also provide that an ATS that effects transactions in
both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks would be subject to the requirements of proposed Rule
304 with respect to NMS stocks and Rule 301(b)(2) with respect to non-NMS stocks. The
Commission recognizes that some existing ATSs that would meet the definition of NMS Stock
ATS also transact in securities other than NMS stocks. For these ATSs to be eligible for the
exemption under Rule 3a1-1(a)(2), the Commission preliminarily believes that it is not necessary
to mandate compliance with the heightened transparency requirements under proposed Rule 304
with respect to their non-NMS stock operations. Based on Commission experience, these ATSs
are designed so that the platform on which non-NMS stock order flow interacts and executes
differs from the platform on which NMS stock order flow interacts and executes. Furthermore,
as explained above, the Commission preliminarily believes that the operational transparency
concerns for NMS Stock ATSs do not apply equally to the markets for non-NMS stocks.275 As
such, the Commission has tailored proposed Form ATS-N to address the specific operational
transparency concerns raised by the current functionalities of the ATS platforms on which NMS
stock order flow interacts and executes. Additionally, the Commission preliminarily believes
that applying proposed Rule 304 to the non-NMS stock operations of ATSs that trade both NMS
stocks and non-NMS stocks would impose unequal regulatory burdens across ATSs that transact

274

See supra Section IV.B. (discussing the proposed conditions to the exemption in Rule
3a1-1(a) for ATSs that trade NMS stocks, as compared to the conditions for ATSs that
trade other securities or that trade NMS stocks as well as other securities).

275

See supra Section IV.B.

104

in non-NMS stocks. Under such a rule, ATSs that trade both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks
would be required to meet the heightened standards of proposed Rule 304 to be eligible for the
exemption under Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) with regard to their non-NMS stock operations, whereas ATSs
that only trade non-NMS stocks would not be subject to the standards under proposed Rule 304.
The Commission also proposes to amend Rule 301(b)(9),276 which requires an ATS to
report transaction volume on Form ATS-R on a quarterly basis and within 10 calendar days after
it ceases operation. The Commission proposes to amend Rule 301(b)(9) to require an ATS that
trades both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks to separately report its transactions in NMS stocks
on one Form ATS-R, and its transactions in non-NMS stocks on another Form ATS-R. The
information filed on Form ATS-R permits the Commission to monitor trading on an ATS. 277 As
noted above, the Commission proposes to require each ATS with both NMS stock and non-NMS
stock operations to file a Form ATS-N for its NMS stock operations and a separate Form ATS
for its non-NMS stock operations. Because the proposed Form ATS-N and Form ATS filings of
such ATSs would describe separate functionalities – the functionalities for the trading of NMS
stocks and those for the trading of non-NMS stocks, respectively – the Commission preliminarily
believes that these ATSs should file a separate Form ATS-R to report the trading activity for
each functionality to avoid confusion and for regulatory efficiency. Accordingly, the
Commission is proposing to require that these ATSs file a Form ATS-R to report transaction
volume resulting from their NMS stock operations, as disclosed on a Form ATS-N, and a
separate Form ATS-R to report transaction volume resulting from their non-NMS stock

276

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(9).

277

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70878.

105

operations, as disclosed on Form ATS. The Commission notes that Form ATS-R would continue
to be deemed confidential.
The Commission requests comment on the proposed amendments to Rules 301(b)(2) and
301(b)(9). In particular, the Commission solicits comment on the following:
45.

Should the Commission require ATSs that trade both NMS stocks and non-NMS
stocks to make filings on both proposed Form ATS-N, with respect to its NMS
stock operations, and Form ATS, with respect to its non-NMS stock operations?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

46.

Should the Commission require ATSs that trade both NMS stocks and non-NMS
stocks to file a Form ATS-R with respect to their NMS stock operations and a
separate Form ATS-R with respect to their non-NMS stock operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

47.

Do you believe that ATSs that trade both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks
should be subject to proposed Rule 304, in whole or in part, for both their NMS
stock operations and non-NMS stock operations? Why or why not? Please
support your arguments.
Do you believe that ATSs that trade both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks
should be required to disclose their NMS stock and non-NMS stock operations
solely on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, why, and what additional disclosures
should be required on proposed Form ATS-N to reflect non-NMS stock
operations? If not, why not? Please support your arguments.

106

3.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(i) and (ii): Filing and Review of Form ATS-N

Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(i) would provide that no exemption from the definition of
“exchange” is available to an NMS Stock ATS pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2)
unless the NMS Stock ATS files with the Commission a Form ATS-N and the Commission
declares the Form ATS-N effective. The Commission preliminarily believes that an NMS Stock
ATS that is not operating on the effective date of proposed Rule 304 should not be permitted to
commence operations until the Commission has had the opportunity to assess whether the NMS
Stock ATS qualifies for the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption. As discussed above, 278 the current
requirements of the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption mandate that an ATS only provide notice of its
operation on a Form ATS initial operation report 20 days prior to commencing operations. 279
The Commission’s review of Form ATS-N would help ensure that an NMS Stock ATS’s
disclosures comply with the requirements of proposed Rule 304 and that a consistent level of
information is made available to market participants in evaluating NMS Stock ATSs. 280
Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(i) is also designed as a transition for currently operating ATSs
that meet the proposed definition of NMS Stock ATS. Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(i) would require
an existing ATS that facilitates transactions in NMS stocks and that operates pursuant to a
previously filed initial operation report on Form ATS as of the effective date of proposed Rule
278

See supra Section IV.B.

279

17 CFR 242.301(b)(2).

280

The Commission notes, however, that Form ATS-N is intended to provide regulatory and
public transparency. As such, its review of Form ATS-N will be focused on an
evaluation of the completeness and accuracy of the disclosure thereon, and compliance
with federal securities laws. Even if the Commission declares a Form ATS-N effective,
the Commission would not be precluded from later determining that an NMS Stock ATS
had violated the federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. See infra
Section IV.C.8.

107

304 (i.e., a “legacy NMS Stock ATS”) to file a Form ATS-N with the Commission no later than
120 calendar days after the effective date of proposed Rule 304. In other words, the
effectiveness of an existing Form ATS would not suffice for a legacy NMS Stock ATS to retain
its exemption from the definition of “exchange” with respect to its Rule 3b-16 activity in NMS
stocks beyond the transition period following the effectiveness of proposed Rule 304. The
Commission is also proposing in Rule 304(a)(1)(i) that a legacy NMS Stock ATS may continue
to operate pursuant to a previously filed initial operation report on Form ATS pending the
Commission’s review of the filed Form ATS-N. 281 This provision would allow the NMS Stock
ATS to continue its current operations without disruptions to the NMS Stock ATS or its current
subscribers and provide the NMS Stock ATS with sufficient time to make an orderly transition
from compliance under the current Regulation ATS requirements to compliance with the
proposed requirements of Rule 304. The Commission notes that during the Commission’s
review of the filed Form ATS-N, the NMS Stock ATS would continue to operate pursuant to its
existing Form ATS initial operation report and would continue to be required to file amendments
on Form ATS to provide notice of changes to the operations of its system. 282
The Commission considered the alternative of allowing an existing ATS that engages in
Rule 3b-16 activity in NMS stocks to retain its exemption from the definition of “exchange” by
virtue of its existing Form ATS, and to require only a new NMS Stock ATS to file Form ATS-N.
However, the Commission preliminarily believes that this alternative would not be appropriate as
it would create a significant competitive disparity between a “new” and “legacy” NMS Stock

281

The NMS Stock ATS would be required to continue to comply with Regulation ATS.

282

17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(ii) through (iv).

108

ATS, with the latter benefitting from substantially lighter disclosure requirements. More
importantly, it would perpetuate the problem of limited information being available to market
participants. Nevertheless, the Commission preliminarily believes that it would be appropriate to
provide existing ATSs that engage in Rule 3b-16 activity with regard to NMS stocks an
adjustment period after the effective date of proposed Rule 304 to file a Form ATS-N. The
Commission preliminarily believes that 120 calendar days is sufficient time for a legacy NMS
Stock ATS to respond to the disclosure requirements on the new Form ATS-N because an ATS
that is currently operating should be knowledgeable about the operations of its system and the
activities of its broker-dealer operator and its affiliates.
Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(ii)(A) would provide that the Commission declare a Form ATSN filed by an NMS Stock ATS operating as of the effective date of proposed Rule 304 effective
or ineffective no later than 120 calendar days from filing with the Commission. Similarly,
Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(ii)(B) would provide that the Commission declare a Form ATS-N filed
by an NMS Stock ATS that was not operating as of the effective date of proposed Rule 304
effective or ineffective no later than 120 calendar days from filing with the Commission. The
disclosures required by proposed Form ATS-N are more comprehensive than those required on
current Form ATS, particularly in terms of volume, complexity, and detail. Based on its
experience over the past seventeen years of receiving and reviewing notices on Form ATS, the
Commission preliminarily believes that it would receive a large amount of information provided
in Form ATS-N filings. The Commission preliminarily believes that 120 calendar days would
provide the Commission adequate time to carry out its oversight functions with respect to its

109

review of Forms ATS-N filed by legacy and new NMS Stock ATSs, including its responsibilities
to protect investors and maintain fair, orderly, and efficient markets. 283
Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(ii)(A) would further provide a process for the Commission to
extend the review period for Forms ATS-N filed by NMS Stock ATSs operating as of the
effective date of proposed Rule 304: (1) an additional 120 calendar days, if the Form ATS-N is
unusually lengthy or raises novel or complex issues that require additional time for review, in
which case the Commission will notify the NMS Stock ATS in writing within the initial 120-day
review period and will briefly describe the reason for the determination that additional time for
review is required; or (2) any extended review period to which the NMS Stock ATS agrees in
writing. Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(ii)(B) would include a similar provision for NMS Stock ATSs
not operating as of the effective date of proposed Rule 304, except that the Commission could
extend its review period up to 90 calendar days. The proposed disclosure requirements require
more detailed disclosures regarding the operations of an NMS Stock ATS than do the current
requirements; thereby increasing the amount of information for the Commission to review. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the additional time provided by the proposed rule is
appropriate because it would allow Commission and its staff to conduct a thorough review of
certain lengthy, novel, or complex Form ATS-N filings and provide sufficient opportunity to
discuss the filing with the NMS Stock ATS if necessary.
Request for Comment

283

As discussed above, a legacy NMS Stock ATS would be able continue to operate
pursuant to a previously filed initial operation report on Form ATS pending the
Commission’s review of the filed Form ATS-N.

110

48.

Do you believe the Commission should adopt a rule in which it is required to
declare a Form ATS-N filed by an NMS Stock ATS effective or ineffective within
120 calendar days of filing? Do you believe this is an appropriate time frame in
light of the amount and nature of information to be submitted on Form ATS-N?
Why or why not? Does any experience with Exchange Act Rule 19b-4 filings by
self-regulatory organizations, either in draft or in formal submission, inform the
appropriate time frame?

49.

Should the Commission adopt a process to further extend the period of review
under certain circumstances? If so, what circumstances and why? Please support
your arguments.

50.

If the Commission does not declare a Form ATS-N filing effective or ineffective
within 120 calendar days from filing with the Commission, or any extension of
the 120-day period pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(ii), do you believe the
Form ATS-N should be automatically deemed effective? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

51.

If the Commission does not declare a Form ATS-N filing effective or ineffective
within 120 calendar days from filing with the Commission, or any extension of
the 120-day period pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(ii), do you believe the
Form ATS-N should be automatically deemed ineffective? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

111

4.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iii): Declarations of Effectiveness or Ineffectiveness
of Form ATS-N

Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iii) would provide that the Commission will declare effective a
Form ATS-N if the NMS Stock ATS qualifies for the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption. Proposed
Rule 304(a)(1)(iii) would also provide that the Commission will declare ineffective a Form ATSN if it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is necessary or appropriate
in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors. 284
Under the proposal, the Commission would use Form ATS-N to evaluate whether an
entity qualifies for an exemption under Rule 3a1-1(a)(2). 285 For the Commission to declare a
Form ATS-N effective, it would evaluate, among other things, whether the entity satisfies the
definition of ATS, 286 and more specifically, the definition of NMS Stock ATS. 287 The

284

A submitted Form ATS-N that contains technical deficiencies, such as missing pages or
one in which the entity does not respond to all questions, including all sub-questions,
would not be complete and would be returned to the NMS Stock ATS. See also 17 CFR
240.0-3. Return of a Form ATS-N would not prejudice any decision by the Commission
regarding effectiveness or ineffectiveness should the NMS Stock ATS resubmit a Form
ATS-N. The Commission notes an NMS Stock ATS also can choose to withdraw a filed
Form ATS-N.

285

An NMS Stock ATS would also be required to comply with other requirements of Rules
300 through 303 of Regulation ATS (except Rule 301(b)(2)) and proposed Rule 304.

286

Regulation ATS defines an ATS as any organization, association, person, group of
persons, or system that constitutes a market place or facilities for bringing together
purchasers and sellers of securities or for otherwise performing with respect to securities
the functions commonly performed by a stock exchange within the meaning of Exchange
Act Rule 3b-16, and does not set rules governing the conduct of subscribers, other than
the conduct of such subscribers’ trading on such organization, association, person, group
of persons, or system, or discipline subscribers under the Exchange Act other than by
exclusion from trading. See 17 CFR 242.300(a).
Under Exchange Act Rule 3b-16, an organization, association, or group of persons shall
be considered to constitute, maintain, or provide “a marketplace or facilities for bringing
together purchasers and sellers of securities or for otherwise performing with respect to
securities the functions commonly performed by a stock exchange,” if such organization,

112

Commission preliminarily believes that whether an entity meets the definition of “NMS Stock
ATS” should be a threshold requirement for the Commission to declare a Form ATS-N effective,
and therefore for the ATS to qualify for the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption. Proper classification of
an entity would clearly indicate to market participants, as well as the Commission, the functions
that entity performs and the regulatory framework and attendant obligations that attach to that
entity. 288 Thus, if the proposed category of NMS Stock ATS is adopted, the Commission
preliminarily believes it needs to mitigate concerns that market participants may be confused or
misled about whether an entity in fact meets the definition of an NMS Stock ATS. If an entity
does not meet the definition, market participants may hold false expectations about how their
orders may interact or be matched with other orders or they may not fully understand whether the
entity with which they are doing business is required to comply with Regulation ATS. For these
reasons, the Commission preliminarily believes that it would be necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, and consistent with the protection of investors, to declare ineffective a Form
ATS-N if it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the Form ATS-N was filed by an
entity that does not meet the functional test under Exchange Act Rule 3b-16, does not perform
association, or group of persons: (1) brings together the orders for securities of multiple
buyers and sellers; and (2) uses established, non-discretionary methods (whether by
providing a trading facility or by setting rules) under which such orders interact with each
other, and the buyers and sellers entering such orders agree to the terms of a trade. See
supra note 48 and accompanying text. See also supra Section IV.A (discussing the
proposed definition of “NMS Stock ATS”).
287

See proposed Rule 300(k). See also supra Section IV.A (discussing the proposed
definition of NMS Stock ATS).

288

For example, an ATS that is not an NMS Stock ATS would be subject to different
conditions to be eligible for the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption. Similarly, depending on the
facts and circumstances, an entity that is not an ATS may be subject to requirements as a
broker-dealer, but not the conditions of Regulation ATS, or may be required to register as
an exchange.

113

functions commonly performed by a stock exchange, or exercises SRO powers. 289 Similarly, the
Commission preliminarily believes that it would be necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, and consistent with the protection of investors, to declare ineffective a Form ATS-N if it
finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that the Form ATS-N was filed by an entity that
does not meet the proposed definition of “NMS Stock ATS.”
The Commission also preliminarily believes that it would be necessary or appropriate in
the public interest, and consistent with the protection of investors, to declare ineffective a Form
ATS-N if it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that one or more disclosures on Form
ATS-N are materially deficient with respect to their accuracy, currency, or completeness. The
requirements of proposed Form ATS-N are set forth in proposed Rule 304(c)(1), which provides
that an NMS Stock ATS must respond to each item on Form ATS-N, as applicable, in detail and
disclose information that is accurate, current, and complete. The Commission preliminarily
believes that market participants would use information disclosed on Form ATS-N to evaluate
whether a particular NMS Stock ATS would be a desirable venue to which to route their orders.
In addition, the Commission intends to use the information disclosed on the Form ATS-N to
exercise oversight over and monitor developments of NMS Stock ATSs. Given these potential
uses, the Commission preliminarily believes that it is important that Form ATS-N contain

289

See supra Section IV.A. (discussing the definition of NMS Stock ATS and the underlying
definition of ATS).
The entity would not fall within the definition of an “exchange” under Section 3(a)(1) of
the Exchange Act and the exemption provided in Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1 would not be
applicable.

114

detailed disclosures that are accurate, current, and complete. 290
The following non-exhaustive examples are provided to illustrate various applications of
proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iii) that could cause the Commission to declare a Form ATS-N
ineffective because it contains one or more disclosures that appear to be materially deficient. 291
For instance, if an NMS Stock ATS discloses an order type on Form ATS-N but does not
describe the key attributes of the order type, such as time-in-force limitations that can be placed
on the ability to execute the order, the treatment of unfilled portions of orders, or conditions for
cancelling orders in whole or in part, the Form ATS-N would not be sufficiently detailed.
Likewise, if an NMS Stock ATS generally describes some of its priority rules, but fails to
describe conditions or exceptions to its priority rules, or fails to describe any priority overlays, 292
the Form ATS-N would lack sufficient detail. If a Form ATS-N states that the NMS Stock ATS
has only one class of subscribers but the Commission or its staff learns through discussions
(during the review period) with the NMS Stock ATS or otherwise that the NMS Stock ATS in
fact has several classes of subscribers, or if the Form ATS-N states that two classes of

290

Proposed Form ATS-N is designed to provide market participants and the Commission
with, among other things, current information about the operations of the NMS Stock
ATS and the activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates. Accordingly, an
NMS Stock ATS would be required to provide information on proposed Form ATS-N
that reflects the operations of the NMS Stock ATS at the time its Form ATS-N is
declared effective by the Commission. Any changes in the operations of the NMS Stock
ATS must be disclosed by the NMS Stock ATS in a Form ATS-N Amendment.

291

The Commission notes that these are some, but not necessarily all, of the types of
circumstances that could result in the Commission declaring a Form ATS-N ineffective
under the proposed rule.

292

In other words, if the NMS Stock ATS fails to describe which order would receive
priority when two or more orders are otherwise on par, such as whether customer orders
receive priority in a price priority system if a customer and non-customer order are at the
same price, the disclosure would not be sufficient.

115

subscribers are charged the same trading fees but the Commission or its staff learns through
discussions with the NMS Stock ATS or otherwise that in fact one class receives more favorable
fees than the other, the Form ATS-N would not be accurate. If a Form ATS-N includes
inconsistent information, such as a statement in one part of the form that the entity uses private
feeds to calculate the NBBO, but in another part of the form it indicates that it uses the Securities
Information Processor (“SIP”), the Form ATS-N would not be accurate.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it would be necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, and consistent with the protection of investors, to declare ineffective a Form
ATS-N if it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that one or more disclosures reveals
non-compliance with federal securities laws, or the rules or regulations thereunder, including
Regulation ATS. The Commission notes that the responsibility for accurate, current, and
complete disclosures on Form ATS-N lies with the NMS Stock ATS.293 The Commission’s
review of Form ATS-N would focus on an evaluation of the completeness and accuracy of the
disclosures, and compliance with federal securities laws, including Regulation ATS. The
Commission’s evaluation regarding compliance with federal securities laws would involve a
“red-flag” review of the Form ATS-N disclosures for apparent non-compliance with federal
securities laws, or other rules or regulations thereunder, including Regulation ATS, and would
focus on the disclosures made on the Form ATS-N. For example, as a condition to the Rule 3a11(a)(2) exemption, Rule 301(b)(1) of Regulation ATS requires that an ATS register as a broker-

293

See infra Section IV.E and accompanying discussion. Proposed Rule 304(c)(1) would
require NMS Stock ATSs to respond to each item on Form ATS-N, as applicable, in
detail and disclose information that is accurate, current, and complete.

116

dealer under Section 15 of the Exchange Act. 294 Section 15(b)(8) of the Exchange Act 295
prohibits a registered broker or dealer from effecting a transaction unless the broker or dealer is a
member of a securities association registered pursuant to Section 15A of the Exchange Act 296 or
effects transactions solely on a national securities exchange of which it is a member. Therefore,
to comply with Regulation ATS, and thus qualify for the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption, an ATS
must become a member of an SRO. If an entity were to file a Form ATS-N before registering as
a broker-dealer under Section 15 of the Exchange Act, the entity would not be in compliance
with Rule 301(b)(1) of Regulation ATS. 297 Moreover, if the entity were to file a Form ATS-N
before becoming a member of an SRO, the entity would not be in compliance with Rule
301(b)(1) of Regulation ATS because Section 15(b)(1) provides that a Commission order
granting registration is not effective until the broker-dealer has become a member of a national
securities association registered pursuant to Section 15A of the Exchange Act, 298 and the
Commission’s order granting broker-dealer registration would not be effective. 299 The
Commission preliminarily believes that it would be necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, and consistent with the protection of investors, to declare ineffective a Form ATS-N if it
finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that a Form ATS-N reveals non-compliance with
Regulation ATS because such non-compliance would be inconsistent with proposed Rule 304(a),
294

17 CFR 242.301(b)(1).

295

15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(8).

296

15 U.S.C. 78o-3.

297

See 17 CFR 301(b)(1). Rule 301(b)(1) requires an ATS to register as a broker-dealer
under Section 15 of the Exchange Act.

298

See 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(1).

299

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(1).

117

which requires that an NMS Stock ATS comply with Rules 300 through 304 (except Rule
301(b)(2)) as a condition to the exemption from the definition of exchange pursuant to Rule 3a11(a)(2).300 As another example, if a Form ATS-N reveals non-compliance with Rule 612 of
Regulation NMS, known as the “Sub-Penny Rule,” which prohibits market participants,
including ATSs, from displaying, ranking, or accepting orders, quotations, or indications of
interest in NMS stock priced in an increment smaller than $0.01, 301 the Form ATS-N would not
be consistent with the proposed Rule because the NMS Stock ATS would operate in a manner
that would violate the federal securities laws.
During its review, the Commission and its staff may provide comments to the entity, and
may request that the entity supplement information in the Form ATS-N or revise its disclosures
on Form ATS-N. 302 An order declaring a Form ATS-N effective would not constitute a finding
that the NMS Stock ATS’s operations are consistent with the Exchange Act and the rules and
regulations thereunder. Rather, the declaration of effectiveness would only address the issue of
whether the NMS Stock ATS has complied with the requirements of Form ATS-N and would

300

The Commission notes that determining whether an NMS Stock ATS qualifies for the
exemption from the definition of “exchange” would be based on information as it appears
in Form ATS-N. If the Commission were to learn of different information, that
determination may change.

301

Specifically, Rule 612(a) of Regulation NMS provides that “no national securities
exchange, national securities association, alternative trading system, vendor, or broker or
dealer shall display, rank, or accept from any person a bid or offer, an order, or an
indication of interest in any NMS stock priced in an increment smaller than $0.01 if that
bid or offer, order, or indication of interest is priced equal to or greater than $1.00 per
share.” See 17 CFR 242.612(a).

302

The Commission notes, however, that Form ATS-N is intended to provide regulatory and
public transparency. As such, its review of Form ATS-N will be focused on an
evaluation of the completeness and accuracy of the disclosure thereon, and compliance
with federal securities laws.

118

focus on the disclosures made on the Form ATS-N. The Commission would not be precluded
from later determining that an NMS Stock ATS had violated the federal securities laws or the
rules and regulations thereunder.
Request for Comment
52.

Should Form ATS-N be deemed immediately effective without Commission
action? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

53.

Should Form ATS-N be considered ineffective on filing with the Commission
until the Commission affirmatively declares the Form ATS-N ineffective? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments.

54.

Should the process for making a Form ATS-N effective for a legacy NMS Stock
ATS be different from the process for making a Form ATS-N effective for an
NMS Stock ATS that files a Form ATS-N after the effective date of the proposed
rule? Why or why not? Please support your arguments. If so, how should the
processes for the two categories of NMS Stock ATSs differ?

55.

Do you believe that the proposed 120 calendar days after the effective date of
proposed Rule 304 is a reasonable amount of time for legacy NMS Stock ATSs to
complete and file a Form ATS-N? If so, why? If not, why not, and what amount
of time would be reasonable? Please support your arguments.

56.

Do you believe that new NMS Stock ATSs would be at a competitive
disadvantage if existing NMS Stock ATSs were not required to file a Form ATSN? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

57.

Do you believe that the proposed 120 calendar day period from filing with the
Commission is a reasonable amount of time for the Commission to declare a
119

Form ATS-N filed by an NMS Stock ATS that was not operating as of the
effective date of proposed Rule 304 effective or ineffective? Do you believe the
review period would place an undue burden on the NMS Stock ATS that filed the
Form ATS-N? If yes, what amount of time would be reasonable? Please support
your arguments.
58.

Should the Commission adopt the proposal to allow a legacy NMS Stock ATS to
continue operations pursuant to an existing filed initial operation report on Form
ATS pending the Commission’s review of its Form ATS-N? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

59.

Do you believe that if a legacy NMS Stock ATS is allowed to continue operations
during the Commission’s review of its Form ATS-N the Commission should
make such NMS Stock ATS’s Form ATS-N publicly available upon filing? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments.

60.

Should the Commission permit existing NMS Stock ATSs to be exempt from the
definition of “exchange” by virtue of the NMS Stock ATS’s current Form ATS on
file with the Commission and require only new NMS Stock ATSs to file Form
ATS-N? Why or why not? Would this raise competitive concerns with respect to
disparate regulatory treatment of “new” and “legacy” NMS Stock ATSs? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

61.

Do you believe that the proposed 90 calendar days for the Commission to extend
the Form ATS-N review period for new NMS Stock ATSs where the Form ATSN is unusually lengthy or raises novel or complex issues is reasonable? Do you
believe it would place an undue burden on the NMS Stock ATS? If so, why, and
120

what amount of time would be reasonable? Do you believe that the proposed 90
calendar day extension period disproportionately affects new NMS Stock ATSs?
Please support your arguments.
62.

Should the Commission adopt the proposal to declare ineffective a Form ATS-N
if it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of
investors? Please support your arguments.

63.

Do you believe that the Commission’s examples of reasons that the Commission
might declare a proposed Form ATS-N ineffective are appropriate? If yes, why?
If not, why not? Please support your arguments.

64.

Do you believe that the Commission should consider any other factors in
determining whether a Form ATS-N should be declared effective or ineffective?
If so, what are they and why? If not, why not? Please support your arguments.

65.

Should the Commission require public notice and comment before declaring a
Form ATS-N effective or ineffective? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

5.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv): Orders Regarding Form ATS-N Effectiveness

Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv) would provide that the Commission will issue an order to
declare a Form ATS-N effective or ineffective. Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv) would also provide
that upon the effectiveness of the Form ATS-N, the NMS Stock ATS may operate pursuant to
the conditions in proposed Rule 304. Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv) would also provide that if the
Commission declares a Form ATS-N ineffective, the NMS Stock ATS shall be prohibited from
operating as an NMS Stock ATS. Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv) would provide that a Form ATS121

N declared ineffective would not prevent the NMS Stock ATS from subsequently filing a new
Form ATS-N.
Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv) is designed to provide notice to the public that the NMS
Stock ATS that filed a Form ATS-N qualifies for the exemption provided under Exchange Act
Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) and may commence operations, or if the NMS Stock ATS was operating
pursuant to a previously filed Form ATS, may continue to operate as an NMS Stock ATS. For
an NMS Stock ATS operating before the effective date of proposed Rule 304 pursuant to a
current Form ATS, the Form ATS for that NMS Stock ATS would no longer have any legal
effect with respect to the regulatory status of the NMS Stock ATS upon the Commission
declaring its Form ATS-N effective. As a result, the effective Form ATS-N would supersede
and replace the NMS Stock ATS’s previously filed Form ATS; and the NMS Stock ATS would
no longer be subject to Rule 301(b)(2) of Regulation ATS and would not be required to file a
Form ATS cessation of operation report because the NMS Stock ATS would continue operations
under the effective Form ATS-N. Declaring a Form ATS-N ineffective would provide the public
with notice that an entity that filed a Form ATS-N does not qualify for the exemption under
Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) and would be precluded from operating as an NMS Stock ATS.
Under Proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv), an entity that had filed a Form ATS-N that had been
declared ineffective by the Commission would be able to subsequently file a new Form ATS-N.
This would allow an entity an opportunity to attempt to address any disclosure deficiencies or
compliance issues that caused the first Form ATS-N to be declared ineffective.
Request for Comment
66.

Do you believe that a Commission order declaring a Form ATS-N ineffective
would have an unduly prejudicial effect on an entity when it refiles Form ATS-N,
122

even where the Commission declares effective the refiled Form ATS-N? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.
6.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(2): Form ATS-N Amendments

The Commission is proposing Rule 304(a)(2) to provide the requirements for filing a
Form ATS-N Amendment, which would be a public document that would provide information
about the operations of the NMS Stock ATS and the activities of its broker-dealer operator and
its affiliates. The information required to be filed on proposed Form ATS-N is designed to
enable market participants to make more informed decisions about routing their orders to the
NMS Stock ATS. The Commission’s proposal to require such public disclosure is designed, in
part, to bring operational transparency of NMS Stock ATSs more in line with the operational
transparency of national securities exchanges. 303 Proposed Form ATS-N is also designed to
provide information to the Commission that would allow it to monitor developments among
NMS Stock ATSs and carry out its oversight functions of protecting investors and the public
interest. Given these intended uses, the Commission believes that it is important for an NMS
Stock ATS to maintain an accurate, current, and complete.
The Commission is proposing Rule 304(a)(2)(i) to require an NMS Stock ATS to amend
an effective Form ATS-N in accordance with the instructions therein: (A) at least 30 calendar
days prior to the date of implementation of a material change to the operations of the NMS Stock
303

See, e.g., supra notes 158-162 and accompanying text (discussing generally differences in
disclosure requirements for national securities exchanges and ATSs). The Commission
also notes that Rule 19b-4(m)(1) of the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.19b-4(m)(1)),
requires each SRO to post and maintain a current and complete version of its rules on its
website. This requirement was designed to assure that SRO members and other
interested persons have ready access to an accurate, up-to-date version of SRO rules. See
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 50486 (October 5, 2004), 69 FR 60287 (October 8,
2004) (adopting amendments to Rule 19b-4 under the Act).

123

ATS or to the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that are subject to disclosure
on Form ATS-N; (B) within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter to correct
any other information that has become inaccurate for any reason and has not been previously
reported to the Commission as a Form ATS-N Amendment; or (C) promptly, to correct
information in any previous disclosure on Form ATS-N, after discovery that any information
filed under Rule 304(a)(1)(i) or (a)(2)(i)(A) or (B) was inaccurate or incomplete when filed. 304
Proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(ii) would provide that the Commission will, by order, if it finds
that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the
protection of investors, declare ineffective any Form ATS-N Amendment filed pursuant to Rule
304(a)(2)(i)(A) through (C) no later than 30 calendar days from filing with the Commission. If
the Commission declares a Form ATS-N Amendment ineffective, the NMS Stock ATS shall be
prohibited from operating pursuant to the ineffective Form ATS-N Amendment. The NMS
Stock ATS could, however, continue to operate pursuant to a Form ATS-N that was previously
declared effective. A Form ATS-N Amendment declared ineffective would not prevent the NMS
Stock ATS from subsequently filing a new Form ATS-N Amendment that resolves the disclosure
deficiency that resulted in the declaration of ineffectiveness.
a. Proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A): Material Amendments
Proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A) would, in part, require an NMS Stock ATS to amend an
effective Form ATS-N in accordance with the instructions therein at least 30 calendar days prior
304

The Commission notes that ATSs currently are required to file amendments to the
disclosures describing their operations on Form ATS (see supra Section II.B describing
the current requirements applicable to ATSs), and that national securities exchanges, as
SROs, are required to file proposed rule changes with the Commission before
implementing such changes, even if such changes are non-controversial (see generally
supra note 161 and accompanying text).

124

to the date of implementation of a material change to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or to
the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that are subject to disclosure on Form
ATS-N. Proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A) is designed to provide advance notice to the Commission
and market participants of a material change to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS and the
disclosures regarding the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates. The
Commission notes that under current Rule 301(b)(2)(ii) of Regulation ATS, ATSs are required to
file an amendment on Form ATS at least 20 calendar days prior to implementing a material
change to the operation of the ATS. 305 The Commission is proposing to apply a longer time
period of 30 days in proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A) due to the additional detail and information
that would be provided in response to the solicitations on Form ATS-N as compared to Form
ATS. As stated in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission believes that
requiring an ATS to provide the Commission advance notice of certain changes to its operation
is a reasonable means for the Commission to carry out its market oversight and investor
protection functions. 306 The Commission preliminarily believes that the 30 calendar day
advance notice period before material changes are implemented would give the Commission the
opportunity to make inquiries to clarify any questions that might arise or to take appropriate
action, if appropriate, regarding problems that may impact market participants, including
investors, before the NMS Stock ATS implemented the changes. Because material changes
would be publicly disclosed upon filing, the 30 calendar day advance notice would also allow
305

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(ii).

306

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70864. The Commission also
stated that “[i]f a system were only required to provide notice after it commenced
operations, the Commission would have no notice of potential problems that might
impact investors before the system begins to operate.” Id.

125

market participants to evaluate the changes before implementation and assess the NMS Stock
ATS as a continued, or potential, trading venue. 307
The Commission preliminarily believes that a change to the operations of an NMS Stock
ATS, or the disclosures regarding the activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates,
would be material if there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable market participant would
consider the change important when evaluating the NMS Stock ATS as a potential trading venue.
When the Commission adopted Regulation ATS in 1998, it noted that ATSs “implicitly make
materiality decisions in determining when to notify their subscribers of changes.” 308 The
Commission is proposing to modify the conditions to the exemption to the definition of
“exchange” under Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) for NMS Stock ATSs, which includes, among other things,
the increased disclosure of information required on Form ATS-N. Because proposed Form ATSN would be a public document, the Commission preliminarily believes that the use of this
materiality standard discussed below would be appropriate as it is similar to materiality standards
applied in the context of securities disclosures made pursuant to other Commission rules. 309

307

See infra Section IV.D (explaining proposed public disclosure requirements for Form
ATS-N filings under proposed Rule 304(b)(2)).

308

See id. at 70864.

309

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 43154 (August 15, 2000), 65 FR 51716,
51721 (August 24, 2000) (Selective Disclosure and Insider Trading) (stating that to
satisfy the materiality requirement, there must be a substantial likelihood that a fact
would be viewed by the reasonable investor as having significantly altered the total mix
of information made available); see also Regulation C under the Securities Act of 1933,
17 CFR 230.405 (“The term material, when used to qualify a requirement for the
furnishing of information as to any subject, limits the information required to those
matters to which there is a substantial likelihood that a reasonable investor would attach
importance in determining whether to purchase the security registered.”).

126

To determine whether a change is material, and thus subject to the 30-day advance notice
requirement, an NMS Stock ATS would need to consider all the relevant facts and
circumstances, including the reason for the change and how it might impact the NMS Stock ATS
and its subscribers, as well as market participants that may be evaluating the NMS Stock ATS as
a potential trading venue. Scenarios that are particularly likely to implicate a material change are
(1) a broker-dealer operator or its affiliates beginning to trade on the NMS Stock ATS; (2) a
change to the broker-dealer operator’s policies and procedures governing the written safeguards
and written procedures to protect the confidential trading information of subscribers pursuant to
Rule 301(b)(10)(i) of Regulation ATS; (3) a change to the types of participants on the NMS
Stock ATS; (4) the introduction or removal of a new order type on the NMS Stock ATS; (5) a
change to the order interaction and priority procedures; (6) a change to the segmentation of
orders and participants; (7) a change to the manner in which the NMS Stock ATS displays orders
or quotes; and (8) a change of a service provider to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS that
has access to subscriber confidential subscriber trading information. This list, however, is not
intended to be exhaustive, and the Commission does not mean to imply that other changes to the
operations of the NMS Stock ATS or to the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates could not constitute a material change. Rather an NMS Stock ATS should be expected
to consider the facts and circumstances of every change to determine whether advance notice is
required.
Request for Comment
67.

Do you believe that the Commission’s proposal to require an NMS Stock ATS to
file a Form ATS-N Amendment at least 30 calendar days before implementing a
material change is reasonable? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
127

Do you believe that the advance notice period for material change on Form ATSN should be shorter (e.g., 20 calendar days, as is the case on current Form ATS)
or longer (e.g., 45 calendar days)? Please support your arguments. Do you
believe it would place an undue burden on the NMS Stock ATS? If so, why, and
how much advance notice, if any, would be reasonable? Please support your
arguments.
68.

Are the enumerated scenarios each particularly likely to constitute a material
change, such that the Commission and the public should be provided with 30
calendar days advance notice pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A)? If yes,
why? If not, why not? Are there any other scenarios generally likely to constitute
a material change? If so, why, and what are those scenarios? Please support your
arguments.

69.

Do you believe that the Commission should propose separate tiers of material
changes (e.g., based on the significance or number of changes) to the operations
of the NMS Stock ATS or disclosures on Form ATS-N and that a different
materiality analysis should be applied depending on the tier of change to the
operations of the NMS Stock ATS or disclosures on Form ATS-N? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments.

70.

Do you believe that any types of material changes to an NMS Stock ATS should
be eligible to be implemented immediately upon filing? If so, what are such
scenarios (regardless of facts and circumstances)? Please support your
arguments.

71.

Do you believe that certain changes to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or to
128

the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that would be subject to
disclosure on Form ATS-N should always be considered material changes? Why
or why not? If so, please explain in detail those changes to the operations of the
NMS Stock ATS or to the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates
that would be subject to disclosure on Form ATS-N that should always be
considered material changes.
72.

Do you believe that certain changes to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or to
the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates on Form ATS-N, such
as order types, should be subject to Commission approval? Why or why not? If
so, please identify such changes and support your argument.

73.

Should the Commission require public notice and comment for determinations of
ineffectiveness of Form ATS Amendments? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.

74.

Do you believe that the Commission should make public on its website upon
filing a Form ATS-N Amendment for a material change, as proposed? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments. Do you believe that there should be a
delay in when the Form ATS-N Amendment for a material change is made
public? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

75.

Do you believe that making an NMS Stock ATS’s Form ATS-N Amendment
public upon filing would affect competition? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments. If so, how?
b. Proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(B): Periodic Amendments

129

Proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(B) would require an NMS Stock ATS to amend an effective
Form ATS-N within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter to correct any other
information that has become inaccurate for any reason and has not been previously reported to
the Commission as a Form ATS-N Amendment. 310 The proposed rule would enable NMS Stock
ATSs to update information from the preceding quarter that does not constitute a material change
in the NMS Stock ATS’s Form ATS-N filing. 311 The Commission preliminarily believes that
providing a mechanism for NMS Stock ATSs to disclose changes to their operations or to update
information that does not constitute a material change within 30 calendar days after the end of
each calendar quarter would tailor the reporting burden on NMS Stock ATSs to the degree of
significance of the change in a manner that does not compromise the Commission’s oversight of
NMS Stock ATSs or its ability to protect investors and the public interest. The Commission
preliminarily believes that allowing NMS Stock ATSs to implement such changes immediately
would allow NMS Stock ATSs to make periodic changes to their operations without delay, while
at the same time provide disclosure about those changes to market participants and the
Commission within an appropriate time frame.
Request for Comment

310

The Commission notes that this requirement would be substantively identical to the
current requirement under Rule 301(b)(2)(iii) of Regulation ATS. See 17 CFR
242.301(b)(2)(iii).

311

That Form ATS-N Amendment, filed pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(B), would
become public upon filing. See infra Section IV.D (explaining proposed public
disclosure requirements for Form ATS-N filings under proposed Rule 304(b)(2)).

130

76.

Should the Commission require NMS Stock ATSs to file a Form ATS-N
Amendment for periodic changes at the end of each calendar quarter? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

77.

Do you believe that the Commission should require an NMS Stock ATS to file a
Form ATS-N Amendment before implementing a periodic change? Why or why
not? If so, what period of time should an NMS Stock ATS be required to wait
before implementing a periodic change? Please explain in detail.

78.

Do you believe that 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter is a
reasonable amount of time for NMS Stock ATSs to correct information that does
not constitute a material change? If so, why? If not, why not, and what amount
of time would be reasonable? Please support your arguments. Do you believe
there are any processes the Commission should consider for correcting
information on a Form ATS-N that does not constitute a material change? If so,
what are such processes? Please explain in detail.

79.

Do you believe that certain changes to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or to
the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that would be subject to
disclosure on Form ATS-N should always be considered periodic changes? Why
or why not? If so, please explain in detail those changes to the operations of the
NMS Stock ATS or to the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates
that should always be considered periodic changes.
Do you believe that the Commission should make public on its website upon
filing a Form ATS-N Amendment for a periodic change? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments. Do you believe that there should be a delay in
131

when the Form ATS-N Amendment for a periodic change is made public? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments.
c. Proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(C): Amendment to Correct Information on
Previously Filed Form ATS-N
Proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(C) would require an NMS Stock ATS to amend an effective
Form ATS-N promptly to correct information in any previous disclosure on Form ATS-N after
discovery that any information filed in a Form ATS-N or Form ATS-N Amendment was
inaccurate or incomplete when filed. 312 For example, if an NMS Stock ATS discovers that
information that it previously disclosed on Form ATS-N was incorrect, such as an address or
contact information, or that information it previously disclosed was incomplete, such as where
the NMS Stock ATS failed to fully describe the characteristics of an order type, it would be
required to promptly amend its Form ATS-N. Although the Commission recognizes that a
change disclosed on a Form ATS-N Amendment that is reported pursuant to proposed Rule
304(a)(2)(i)(C) would likely be already implemented by the NMS Stock ATS, the Commission
believes that it would benefit market participants to receive accurate and complete information
about the NMS Stock ATS so they can use the information in deciding where to route their
orders. 313
Request for Comment
312

The Commission notes that this requirement would be substantively identical to Rule
301(b)(2)(iv) of Regulation ATS that an ATS “promptly file an amendment on Form
ATS correcting information previously reported on Form ATS after discovery that any
information filed” in a Form ATS initial operation report or amendment “was inaccurate
when filed.” See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(iv).

313

That Form ATS-N Amendment, filed pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(C), would
become public upon filing. See infra Section IV.D (explaining proposed public
disclosure requirements for Form ATS-N filings under proposed Rule 304(b)(2)).

132

80.

Do you believe that making amendments “promptly” is a reasonable requirement
for NMS Stock ATSs to correct information that was inaccurate or incomplete
when filed? If so, why? If not, why not, and what amount of time would be
reasonable? Please support your arguments.

81.

Do you believe there are any other processes the Commission should consider for
correcting information on Form ATS-N that was inaccurate at the time it was
filed? If so, what are such processes? Please explain in detail.

82.

Do you believe that the Commission’s proposal to provide an NMS Stock ATS
the opportunity to correct information that was inaccurate or incomplete when
filed creates an unreasonable risk to market participants that an NMS Stock ATS
might fail to provide accurate, current, and complete information on Form ATS-N
when filing the form? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
d. Proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(ii): Commission Review of Form ATS-N
Amendments

The Commission is proposing Rule 304(a)(2)(ii) to provide that the Commission will, by
order, if it finds that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is
consistent with the protection of investors, declare ineffective any Form ATS-N Amendment
filed pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A) through (C) no later than 30 calendar days from filing with
the Commission. 314 The Commission could, for example, declare ineffective a Form ATS-N
Amendment if one or more disclosures on the amended Form ATS-N are materially deficient

314

A filed Form ATS-N Amendment that contains technical deficiencies, such as missing
pages or one in which the entity does not respond to all questions, including all subquestions, would not be complete and would be returned to the NMS Stock ATS. See
also 17 CFR 240.0-3.

133

with respect to their accuracy, currency, completeness, or fair presentation. The Commission is
concerned that an NMS Stock ATS whose Form ATS-N filing was declared effective could file a
Form ATS-N Amendment that contains materially deficient disclosures. The Commission is
also concerned that market participants could use this information in connection with their
evaluation of an NMS Stock ATS and potentially be confused or misinformed about the
operations of an NMS Stock ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that a filed Form
ATS-N should contain detailed disclosures that are accurate, current, and complete and therefore
is proposing a mechanism for it to declare amendments ineffective as appropriate. 315
The Commission could also declare ineffective a Form ATS-N Amendment if it finds
that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the
protection of investors, because the amendment describes a change that, under a “red flag”
review, would not comply with the federal securities laws or the rules or regulations thereunder,
including Regulation ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that it would be hindered in
protecting investors and maintaining fair and orderly markets if an NMS Stock ATS were
allowed to implement or continue the use of a service, functionality, or procedure that does not
comply with the federal securities laws or the rules or regulations thereunder, including
Regulation ATS.
Under proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(ii), the Commission could declare a Form ATS-N
Amendment ineffective within 30 calendar days from filing with the Commission. During its
review of a Form ATS-N Amendment, the Commission and its staff may provide comments to
the NMS Stock ATS, and may request that the NMS Stock ATS supplement information in the
315

See proposed Rule 304(c)(1).

134

Form ATS-N Amendment or revise its disclosures on the Form ATS-N Amendment. Like the
Commission’s review of a Form ATS-N initially filed by an entity with the Commission, 316 the
Commission notes that its review of a Form ATS-N Amendment would focus on the disclosures
made on the Form ATS-N. The Commission would not be precluded from later determining that
an NMS Stock ATS had violated the federal securities laws or the rules and regulations
thereunder. The Commission preliminarily believes that the 30 calendar day review period
would provide the Commission with adequate time to review the Form ATS-N Amendment,
discuss the changes with the broker-dealer operator as explained above and decide whether to
declare the Form ATS-N Amendment ineffective.
Under proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(ii), if the Commission declares a Form ATS-N
Amendment ineffective, the NMS Stock ATS would be prohibited from operating pursuant to the
ineffective Form ATS-N Amendment. As discussed above, under proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i), an
NMS Stock ATS must amend its Form ATS-N at least 30 days before implementing a material
change to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or to the activities of the broker-dealer operator
or its affiliates that are subject to disclosure on Form ATS-N, or within 30 calendar days after the
end of each calendar quarter to correct any other information that has become inaccurate for any
reason and has not been previously reported to the Commission as a Form ATS-N Amendment.
The Commission preliminarily believes the proposed rule strikes a proper balance between, on
the one hand, providing an NMS Stock ATS with the flexibility to implement a change to its
operations without unnecessary delay, and on the other hand, giving the Commission time to

316

See supra Section IV.C.

135

adequately review Form ATS-N Amendments and carry out its oversight functions and
responsibilities. 317
Under proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv), an NMS Stock ATS that had filed a Form ATS-N
Amendment that has been declared ineffective would be able to subsequently file a new Form
ATS-N Amendment. This would allow an NMS Stock ATS to attempt to address any disclosure
deficiencies or compliance issues that caused a Form ATS-N Amendment to be declared
ineffective.
Request for Comment
83.

Should the Commission adopt the proposal to declare ineffective any Form ATSN Amendment if it finds that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

84.

Do you believe that the Commission should affirmatively declare material
amendments to Form ATS-N effective? Why or why not? If so, do you believe
the Commission should declare material changes to Form ATS-N effective before

317

The Commission also preliminarily believes that the proposed process that would permit
the Commission to declare Form ATS-N Amendments ineffective, even if the change
disclosed in the Form ATS-N Amendments has already been implemented, would be
consistent with better aligning the Commission’s oversight of NMS Stock ATSs with its
oversight of national securities exchanges. The Commission notes, for example, that
pursuant to Section 19(b)(3)(C) of the Exchange Act, the Commission, at any time within
the 60-day period beginning on the date of filing of a proposed rule change filed by a
national securities exchange, “summarily may temporarily suspend the change in the
rules of the [SRO] made thereby, if it appears to the Commission that such action is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, for the protection of investors, or
otherwise in furtherance of the purposes of [the Act].” 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(3)(C). As a
result, the Commission may suspend a national securities exchange’s proposed rule
change, even if the change was eligible to be effective upon filing with the Commission.

136

the NMS Stock ATS implements the material change? Why or why not? Please
support your arguments.
85.

Do you believe that the Commission should provide a longer time period for the
Commission to review material amendments to Form ATS-N (e.g., 45 calendar
days) and a shorter period of time for the NMS Stock ATS to be able to
implement the material change (e.g., 10, 20, or 30 calendar days)? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments. Do you believe that a longer Commission
review period coupled with a shorter advance notice period would balance the
burdens on an NMS Stock ATS that would be required to provide advance notice
of a material change to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS with the time
necessary for the Commission to review a Form ATS-N material amendment?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments. Do you believe a longer
Commission review period coupled with a shorter advance notice period would
lead to practical challenges (e.g., confusion among market participants or
difficulty to NMS Stock ATSs to unwind a change)? Please support your
arguments.

86.

Do you believe that a Form ATS-N Amendment should become effective by
operation of rule if the Commission does not affirmatively declare it ineffective?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

87.

Do you believe that the proposed 30 calendar days from filing with the
Commission is a reasonable time period for the Commission to declare a Form
ATS-N Amendment ineffective? Do you believe it would place an undue burden
on the NMS Stock ATS that filed the Form ATS-N Amendment? If so, why, and
137

what would be a reasonable amount of time? Please support your arguments. Do
you believe that a longer period of time (e.g., 45 days) for the Commission to
declare a Form ATS-N Amendment ineffective would be reasonable? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments. Do you believe that a longer period of
time would place an undue burden on the NMS Stock ATS that filed the Form
ATS-N Amendment? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
88.

Do you believe the Commission should adopt a process to extend its review
period for a Form ATS-N Amendment similar to the processes being proposed
under proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(ii) for initial Form ATS-N filings? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments. If so, how long should the extension of the
review period be (e.g., 10, 15, 20, or 30 calendar days) and should the process
apply to material amendments, periodic amendments, amendments to correct
information in any previous Form ATS-N filing that was inaccurate or incomplete
when filed, or all categories of Form ATS-N Amendments? Should the process
differ depending on the category of amendment? Please be specific.

89.

Should the Commission adopt the proposal that a Form ATS-N Amendment
should become effective without the Commission issuing an order declaring
effective the relevant Form ATS-N Amendment? Do you believe that the lack of
a Commission order declaring a Form ATS-N Amendment ineffective within 30
calendar days from filing would provide an NMS Stock ATS sufficient notice that
a Form ATS-N Amendment has become effective? Why or why not? Please
support your arguments.

138

90.

Do you believe that a determination of ineffectiveness of a Form ATS-N
Amendment should be subject to notice and hearing, as is the case with initial
determinations about Form ATS-N? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

7.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(3): Notice of Cessation

Proposed Rule 304(a)(3) would require an NMS Stock ATS to notice its cessation of
operations on Form ATS-N at least 10 business days before the date the NMS Stock ATS ceases
to operate as an NMS Stock ATS.318 The notice of cessation would cause the Form ATS-N to
become ineffective on the date designated by the NMS Stock ATS. Requiring an NMS Stock
ATS to file a Form ATS-N notice of cessation at least 10 business days before the date the NMS
Stock ATS ceases operations would provide notice to the public and the Commission that the
NMS Stock ATS intends to cease operations. By making the notices of cessation public, as
discussed herein, 319 the Commission preliminarily believes that all market participants that had
routed orders to the NMS Stock ATS would be able to make arrangements to select alternative
routing destinations for their orders. Regulation ATS currently requires an ATS to “promptly
file a cessation of operations report on Form ATS” upon ceasing to operate. 320 Proposed Rule
304(a)(3) would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose on Form ATS-N the date it will cease
operating at least 10 business days before doing so. The Commission preliminarily believes that
the proposal to require NMS Stock ATSs to provide notice at least 10 business days before the
318

The Commission would post a notice of cessation upon completing its review for
accuracy and completion.

319

See infra Section V (discussing public disclosure of filings on Form ATS-N, including
cessation of operation reports).

320

17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(v).

139

date an NMS Stock ATS ceases to operate is a reasonable period for the NMS Stock ATS to
provide market participants and the Commission with notice that it intends to cease operations,
as market participants would have adequate time to find and select other routing destinations for
their orders.
Request for Comment
91.

Should the Commission require an NMS Stock ATS to give notice that it intends
to cease operations 10 business days or more before ceasing operations as an
NMS Stock ATS? If so, why and how much advance notice is appropriate? If
not, why not? Please support your arguments.

92.

Should the Commission allow an NMS Stock ATS to notice its cessation of
operations after it has ceased operations, as is currently the requirement under
Regulation ATS, or at the same time that it ceases operations? If so, why and
how long after the NMS Stock ATS has ceased operations? If not, why not?
Please support your arguments.

93.

Should the Commission create a process to revoke the exemption from Rule 3a11(a)(2) if the NMS Stock ATS reports no volume for two consecutive quarters,
four consecutive quarters, eight consecutive quarters, or over some other time
period? Why or why not? Are there any other circumstances under which the
Commission should revoke the exemption if the NMS Stock ATS appears to be
inactive? Please support your arguments.

8.

Proposed Rule 304(a)(4): Suspension, Limitation, or Revocation of the
Exemption from the Definition of Exchange

To rely on an exemption from the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder

140

granted by the Commission, the person seeking the exemption must comply with the conditions
to the exemption established by the Commission. A person that fails to comply with those
conditions would therefore fall outside of the scope of the exemption. 321 In adopting Exchange
Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) and Regulation ATS, the Commission established conditions under which
an ATS would be exempt from the definition of “exchange,” and therefore would not be required
to register as a national securities exchange. Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) provides that a system that meets
the criteria of Rule 3b-16 is exempt from the definition of “exchange” on condition that the
system complies with Regulation ATS. As discussed above, the Commission is proposing to
expand the set of conditions that an NMS Stock ATS would need to satisfy to qualify for the
exemption provided under Rule 3a1-1(a)(2).
The Commission is proposing to amend Regulation ATS to include proposed Rule
304(a)(4), to provide a process for the Commission to suspend for a period not exceeding twelve
months, 322 limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the definition of the term
exchange pursuant to Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) under certain circumstances. Regulation ATS currently
does not provide a process for the Commission to suspend, limit, or revoke the exemption under
which an ATS operates other than pursuant to the Commission’s general enforcement
authority. 323 The Commission is proposing Rule 304(a)(4)(i), which would provide that the

321

See proposed Rule 304(a)(4)(iv).

322

The proposed limitation on the time frame for suspension is consistent with federal
securities law provisions pursuant to which the Commission may suspend the activities or
registration of a regulated entity. See, e.g., Section 15(b)(4) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(4)) and
15B(c)(2) (15 U.S.C. 78o-4(c)(2)).

323

See generally Exchange Act Section 21C (15 U.S.C 78u-3). Use of the proposed process
whereby the Commission could suspend, limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s Rule
3a1-1(a)(2) exemption would not preclude the Commission from using its general

141

Commission will, by order, if it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors,
suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months, limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s
exemption from the definition of “exchange” pursuant to Rule 3a1-1(a)(2). 324 Proposed Rule
304(a)(4)(ii) would make clear that if an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption is suspended or revoked
pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(4)(i), the NMS Stock ATS would be prohibited from operating
pursuant to the exemption from the definition of “exchange” provided under Rule 3a1-1(a)(2); if
an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption is limited pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(4)(i), the NMS
Stock ATS would be prohibited from operating in a manner inconsistent with the terms and
conditions of the Commission order.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is appropriate to provide a process by
which the Commission may, by order, suspend, limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption
from the definition of “exchange” if the NMS Stock ATS is operating in a manner such that the
exemption from the definition of “exchange” for the NMS Stock ATS is not necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, or consistent with the protection of investors. For example, in
making a determination as to whether suspension, limitation, or revocation of an NMS Stock
enforcement authority, or other specific enforcement authority that may be applicable
such as, for example, pursuant to Section 15(b)(4) and 15(c) (15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(4); 15
U.S.C. 78o(c)). Rather, it would provide an additional means of helping to ensure that
NMS Stock ATSs that no longer qualify for the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption are unable to
take advantage of it. For example, if an NMS Stock ATS failed to file a Form ATS-N
Amendment to disclose material changes to the operation of the NMS Stock ATS, the
Commission could invoke the process to suspend, limit or revoke the NMS Stock ATS’s
exemption, but would not be precluded from bringing an action against the broker-dealer
operator of the NMS Stock ATS for failing to comply with Rule 304(a)(2), or violating
the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws.
324

See proposed Rule 304(a)(4)(i).

142

ATS’s exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the
protection of investors, the Commission would take into account whether the entity no longer
meets the definition of NMS Stock ATS under Rule 300(a)(k), does not comply with the
conditions to the exemption (in that it fails to comply with any part of Regulation ATS, including
proposed Rule 304), or otherwise violates any provision of federal securities laws.
The Commission preliminarily believes, for example, that it would be appropriate to
provide for the suspension, limitation, or revocation of an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the
definition of “exchange” pursuant to Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) if the Commission finds that an NMS
Stock ATS no longer meets the definition of “NMS Stock ATS.”325 If a system does not meet
the functional test of an “exchange” under Rule 3b-16, it would not be eligible for the exemption
from the definition of “exchange” pursuant to Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) as it is not an “exchange” in the
first instance. 326 If an NMS Stock ATS no longer meets the criteria of Rule 3b-16—or meets the
criteria of Rule 3b-16 but no longer effects transactions in NMS stocks—or otherwise does not
meet the definition of an alternative trading system, it would not continue to be eligible for the
exemption in Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) even if it had met the definition of an NMS Stock ATS at the time
that the Commission declared its Form ATS-N effective. Permitting a system to operate that
does not otherwise meet the definition of an NMS Stock ATS would deny investors appropriate

325

The Commission preliminarily believes that a determination as to whether to suspend,
limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption would depend on the particular facts
and circumstances; however, the Commission also preliminarily believes that revocation
would be the appropriate course of action if the Commission finds that an entity no
longer meets the definition of NMS Stock ATS or otherwise satisfies the criteria of the
functional test under Rule 3b-16.

326

See supra Section IV.A. (discussing the definition of NMS Stock ATS and the
availability of the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption).

143

regulatory protection and could also be misleading to investors.
The Commission also preliminarily believes that it would be appropriate to provide for
the suspension, limitation, or revocation of an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the definition
of exchange pursuant to Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) if, for example, the Commission finds that an NMS
Stock ATS fails to comply with any part of Regulation ATS, including proposed Rule 304. As
discussed in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, instead of imposing requirements applicable
to national securities exchanges, the Commission adopted enhanced regulation for ATSs that
would provide more protections for investors who used the systems. 327 To the extent that an
NMS Stock ATS fails to comply with the conditions set forth in Regulation ATS, investors
would no longer be protected by the conditions of Regulation ATS or the protections afforded by
the provisions of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder that apply to national securities
exchanges. For example, pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(4)(i), the Commission would
suspend, limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the definition of “exchange” if it
finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors, because the NMS Stock ATS is
no longer a registered broker-dealer, which is a requirement of Regulation ATS. 328 The
Commission would also suspend, limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption if the
Commission finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors, because, for
example, the ATS’s Form ATS-N contains inaccurate or incomplete responses. Proposed Form

327

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70857.

328

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(1).

144

ATS-N would be a public reporting document that is designed to provide the Commission and
market participants with information about the operations of the NMS Stock ATS and the
circumstances under which the activities of the broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS
and its affiliates may give rise to potential conflicts of interest. The Commission preliminarily
believes that market participants would likely use the information provided on Form ATS-N to
make decisions about where to route orders. The Commission is concerned that information
provided on Form ATS-N that is inaccurate or incomplete could misinform or mislead market
participants about the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or the activities of the broker-dealer
operator, including how their orders may be handled and executed, and impact their decisions
about where they should route their orders. To prevent an NMS Stock ATS from potentially
misinforming or misleading market participants about the operations of the system, proposed
Rule 304(a)(4) would provide a process for the Commission to suspend, limit, or revoke the
NMS Stock ATS’s Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption.
Additionally, the Commission preliminarily believes that it would be appropriate to
provide for the suspension, limitation, or revocation of an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the
definition of exchange pursuant to Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) if, for example, the Commission finds, after
notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors, because that NMS Stock ATS has
violated or is violating any provision of the federal securities laws. The Commission is
concerned that market participants may be harmed by an NMS Stock ATS that is, for example,
providing false or misleading information to market participants, and preliminarily believes that
such an NMS Stock ATS should not be able to continue to operate pursuant to an exemption
provided by the Commission.
145

Pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(4)(ii), an NMS Stock ATS whose exemption had been
suspended or revoked would be prohibited from operating pursuant to the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2)
exemption; and if an NMS Stock ATS were to continue to engage in Rule 3b-16 activity in NMS
stocks without the exemption, it would be an unregistered exchange because it would no longer
qualify for the exemption from the exchange definition. 329 If an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption
was limited pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(4)(iv), the NMS Stock ATS would be prohibited
from operating in a manner otherwise inconsistent with the terms and conditions of the
Commission order, and if it did operate in a manner inconsistent with the terms and conditions of
the order, would risk operating as an unregistered national securities exchange. The exemption
provided under Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) is conditional upon initial and ongoing compliance with
Regulation ATS. The proposed process for suspending, limiting, or revoking an NMS Stock
ATS’s exemption, in the event the Commission finds, for example, that there is a failure to
adhere to the conditions of the exemption and that suspending, limiting, or revoking the
exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection
of investors, is designed to protect investors in the case of potential non-compliance by an NMS

329

If the Commission revoked the exemption of an NMS Stock ATS and the NMS Stock
ATS wished to continue operations, the entity could do so only if it was registered as a
national securities exchange pursuant to Section 6 of the Exchange Act or was exempted
by the Commission from such registration based on the limited volume of transactions
effected on such exchange, or seeks another exemption. See 17 CFR 242.301(a)(1)-(2).
The NMS Stock ATS would not be prohibited from filing a new Form ATS-N, pursuant
to proposed Rule 304(a)(1).
An NMS Stock ATS that has had its exemption suspended or limited may, depending on
the facts and circumstances, be able to file a Form ATS-N Amendment or revise its
operations to come into compliance with the conditions of the exemption or the provision
of any other federal securities law that may have been the basis of the Commission’s
findings.

146

Stock ATS with the conditions with which the NMS Stock ATS must adhere in order to continue
to qualify for an exemption from the statutory definition of “exchange.”
The Commission also preliminarily believes that providing a process by which the
Commission can determine to suspend, limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from
the definition of “exchange” would provide appropriate flexibility to address the specific facts
and circumstances of an NMS Stock ATS’s failure to comply with Regulation ATS or the nature
of the violation of federal securities laws, and the possible harm to investors as a result of the
non-compliance or violation. For example, the Commission preliminarily believes that
providing a process by which the Commission could limit the exemption provided in Rule 3a11(a)(2) would provide flexibility to address specific disclosures or activities that are the cause of
the non-compliance with Regulation ATS or that violate federal securities laws. For illustration,
if the Commission found that an NMS Stock ATS implemented a material change to its
operations, but failed to disclose the material change on its Form ATS-N, the Commission could
determine to allow the NMS Stock ATS to continue to operate as disclosed on its Form ATS-N,
but prohibit the NMS Stock ATS from engaging in the undisclosed activity until the NMS Stock
ATS properly amends its Form ATS-N in accordance with proposed Rule 304(a)(2). If the
Commission found that an NMS Stock ATS offered an order type that resulted in violations of
the Commission’s rules restricting the acceptance and ranking of orders in impermissible subpenny increments, the Commission could allow the NMS Stock ATS to continue to operate but
prohibit the NMS Stock ATS from offering the order type, if it found that doing so was
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and consistent with the protection of investors.
The Commission preliminarily believes that, depending on the facts and circumstances, it may be
more appropriate in the public interest, and consistent with the protection of investors, to limit
147

the scope of an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption, instead of revoking or suspending the exemption
and causing the NMS Stock ATS to cease operations. In comparison, the Commission
preliminarily believes it would be more appropriate to revoke the exemption of an NMS Stock
ATS that no longer meets the definition of NMS Stock ATS or is no longer a registered brokerdealer, as these conditions are fundamental to the exemption. Additionally, the Commission
preliminarily believes that it would be necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and
consistent with the protection of investors, to revoke the exemption of an NMS Stock ATS if, for
example, the ATS is found to be violating the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws.
Nonetheless, the entry of an order revoking an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption would not prohibit
the broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS from continuing its other broker-dealer
operations.
The Commission is also proposing that prior to issuing an order suspending, limiting, or
revoking an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(4)(i), the
Commission would provide notice and opportunity for hearing to the NMS Stock ATS, and
make the findings specified in proposed Rule 304(a)(4)(i) described above, that, in the
Commission’s opinion, the suspension, limitation or revocation is necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors. The Commission preliminarily
believes that the proposed process of providing an NMS Stock ATS with notice and opportunity
for hearing provides the NMS Stock ATS with adequate opportunity to respond before the
Commission determines that the NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the definition of “exchange”
is no longer appropriate in the public interest or consistent with the protection of investors. The
Commission also preliminarily believes that the possibility that the Commission may suspend,
limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the definition of “exchange” would not be
148

unduly burdensome because an NMS Stock ATS would be given advance notice and have an
opportunity to respond, and, depending on the facts and circumstances, revise its operations or
disclosures on Form ATS-N to bring its operations or disclosures into compliance with
Regulation ATS or federal securities laws. The Commission preliminarily believes that
proposed Rule 304(a)(4) would provide the Commission with an appropriate tool, which is
subject to notice and hearing safeguards, to protect the investing public and the public interest
from an NMS Stock ATS that fails to comply with Regulation ATS or otherwise violates any
provision of the federal securities laws.
Request for Comment
94.

Do you believe the proposed process for the Commission to suspend, limit, or
revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the definition of “exchange” is
necessary or appropriate to protect investors and other market participants and
maintain fair and orderly markets? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

95.

What criteria should the Commission use in deciding whether to suspend, limit, or
revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption as proposed? Are there alternative
actions or processes the Commission should consider for suspending, limiting, or
revoking the exemption? Please support your arguments and provide details.

96.

Should the Commission adopt the proposal to provide flexibility as to whether to
suspend, limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption depending on the facts
and circumstances and possible harm to investors? If so, why? If not, what other
criteria, if any, should the Commission use in deciding whether to suspend, limit,
or revoke the exemption? Please support your arguments.
149

97.

Do you believe there should be a maximum time frame following notice and
opportunity for hearing within which the Commission should be required to act?
If so, why, and what would be the appropriate time frame? If not, why not?
Please support your arguments.

98.

Do you believe that 12 months is the appropriate limit on the amount of time by
which the Commission could suspend an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption? If so,
why? If not, why not, and what would be the appropriate time frame? Please
support your arguments.

99.

Do you believe that the Commission’s proposal to declare ineffective a Form
ATS-N Amendment if it finds that such action is necessary or appropriate in the
public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors, is appropriate as
a supplement to the proposal that the Commission suspend, limit, or revoke an
NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the definition of “exchange” under proposed
Rule 304(a)(4)? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

100.

Do you believe there are other processes by which the Commission should
enforce the conditions to the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption? If so, what are they
and why would they be preferable to the proposed process?

D. Rule 304(b): Public Disclosure of Form ATS-N and Related Commission Orders
The Commission is proposing to make public certain Form ATS-N reports filed by NMS
Stock ATSs. 330 Commission orders related to the effectiveness of Form ATS-N will also be
330

See proposed Rule 304(b)(1) (providing that every Form ATS-N filed pursuant to Rule
304 shall constitute a “report” within the meaning of Sections 11A, 17(a), 18(a), and
32(a) and any other applicable provisions of the Exchange Act).

150

publicly posted on the Commission’s website. As discussed above, there currently is limited
information available to the public about the operations of ATSs that trade NMS stocks and the
activities of their broker-dealer operators and the broker-dealer operators’ affiliates. 331
Furthermore, as discussed further below, market participants may not be informed about
potential conflicts of interest that arise as a result of the other business activities of the brokerdealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS, or its affiliates, such as trading NMS stocks on the NMS
Stock ATS or operating multiple trading centers, including multiple ATSs. 332 The only
information the Commission currently makes publicly available regarding ATSs is a list, which
is updated monthly, of ATSs with a Form ATS on file with the Commission. 333 Therefore, the
Commission is proposing Rule 304(b) to mandate greater public disclosure of NMS Stock ATS
operations through the publication of Form ATS-N and to provide for the posting of Commission
orders on the Commission’s website related to the effectiveness of Form ATS-N.
First, the Commission is proposing Rule 304(b)(1) to provide that every Form ATS-N
filed pursuant to Rule 304 shall constitute a “report” within the meaning of Sections 11A, 17(a),
18(a), and 32(a) and any other applicable provisions of the Exchange Act. Because proposed
Form ATS-N is a report that is required to be filed under the Exchange Act, it would be unlawful
for any person to willfully or knowingly make, or cause to be made, a false or misleading
statement with respect to any material fact in Form ATS-N.334 The Commission notes that

331

See supra Section III.C.

332

See infra Section VII.

333

See Alternative Trading System (“ATS”) List, http://www.sec.gov/foia/docs/atslist.htm.

334

See 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a).

151

proposed Rule 304(b)(1) is nearly identical to current Rule 301(b)(2)(vi), 335 which provides that
every notice or amendment filed pursuant to Rule 301(b)(2), including Form ATS, shall
constitute a “report” within the meaning of Sections 11A, 17(a), 18(a), and 32(a), and any other
applicable provisions of the Exchange Act. 336
Under proposed Rule 304(b)(2), the Commission would make public via posting on the
Commission’s website, each: (i) order of effectiveness of a Form ATS-N; (ii) order of
ineffectiveness of a Form ATS-N; (iii) effective Form ATS-N; (iv) filed Form ATS-N
Amendment; (v) order of ineffectiveness of a Form ATS-N Amendment; (vi) notice of cessation;
and (vii) order suspending, limiting, or revoking the exemption from the definition of an
“exchange” pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2). Proposed Rule 304(b)(3) would require
each NMS Stock ATS to make public via posting on its website a direct URL hyperlink to the
Commission’s website that contains the documents enumerated in proposed Rule 304(b)(2).
Once the Commission has declared a Form ATS-N effective, the Commission
preliminarily believes that making Form ATS-N public would provide market participants with
important information about the operations of the NMS Stock ATS and its broker-dealer operator
and the broker-dealer operator’s affiliates. As discussed further below, proposed Form ATS-N
would provide information about the broker-dealer operator and the activities of the brokerdealer operator and its affiliates in connection with the NMS Stock ATS, including: their
operation of trading centers and other NMS Stock ATSs; products and services offered to
subscribers; arrangements with unaffiliated trading centers; trading activities on the NMS Stock

335

17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vi).

336

15 U.S.C. 78k-1, 78q(a), 78r(a), and 78ff(a). See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vi).

152

ATS; smart order router (or similar functionality) and algorithms used to send or receive orders
or other trading interest to or from the ATS; personnel and third parties used to operate the NMS
Stock ATS; differences in the availability of ATS services, functionalities, or procedures; and
safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information. 337 Proposed
Form ATS-N would also provide market participants with important information about the
manner of operations of the NMS Stock ATS, including: subscribers; hours of operation; types
of orders; connectivity, order entry, and co-location procedures; segmentation of order flow and
notice about segmentation; display of order and other trading interest; trading services, including
matching methodologies, order interaction rules, and order handling, and execution procedures;
procedures governing suspension of trading and trading during a system disruption or
malfunction; opening, re-opening, closing, and after hours procedures; outbound routing
services; fees; market data; trade reporting; clearance and settlement; order display and execution
access; fair access; and market quality statistics published or provided to one or more
subscribers. 338 Accordingly, the Commission proposes to make public – via the public posting
of Form ATS-N on the Commission’s website – information that it preliminarily believes should
be easily accessible to all market participants so that market participants may better evaluate how
to achieve their investing or trading objectives.
The Commission would not post on its website a filed Form ATS-N before the
Commission declares that Form ATS-N effective. Under the proposal, an NMS Stock ATS that

337

See infra Section VII (discussing proposed disclosure requirements related to brokerdealer operators under Form ATS-N).

338

See infra Section VIII (discussing proposed operational disclosure requirements of Form
ATS-N).

153

was not in operation as of the effective date of proposed Rule 304 may not commence operations
as an NMS Stock ATS until the Commission issues an order declaring its Form ATS-N
effective. 339 Additionally, if the Commission declares ineffective a Form ATS-N filed by a
legacy NMS Stock ATS, that ATS would be prohibited from operating as an NMS Stock ATS
going forward.340 Furthermore, while the Commission is reviewing a Form ATS-N prior to
declaring it effective or ineffective, Commission staff would likely engage in discussions with
the entity regarding its disclosures and could request that the entity revise or augment its
disclosures to provide market participants with greater clarity regarding the entity’s operations.
Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that it would be premature to provide
market participants with information regarding an initial Form ATS-N filing until after it is
declared effective.
The proposal to make public each Form ATS-N Amendment upon filing with the
Commission is to provide market participants with immediate transparency into the operations of
an NMS Stock ATS, which would be operational and to which market participants might
currently enter—or consider entering—orders for execution. The Commission preliminarily
believes that making public Form ATS-N Amendments would benefit market participants by
allowing them to obtain current information regarding changes to the operation of an NMS Stock
ATS and its relationship with its broker-dealer operator and the broker-dealer operator’s
affiliates; if it would benefit their investment or trading strategies, market participants would also
be able to continually evaluate that NMS Stock ATS as a potential destination to route their
339

See proposed Rule 304(a)(1)(iv).

340

Id. Nothing would preclude the NMS Stock ATS from later submitting a new or revised
Form ATS-N for consideration by the Commission.

154

orders. The Commission preliminarily believes that, while Form ATS-N Amendments would be
publicly posted before the Commission has completed its review, it would be useful to market
participants to have immediate access to the disclosures contained in an amendment so market
participants may, for example, assess and prepare for upcoming material changes on an NMS
Stock ATS or more quickly understand any operational changes that have occurred over the
previous quarter on the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission also proposes to make the public
aware of which Form ATS-N Amendments filed by NMS Stock ATSs posted on the
Commission’s website are pending Commission review and could still be declared ineffective.
The Commission believes that publicly posting filed Form ATS-N Amendments would strike the
right balance of enabling market participants to better understand upcoming or recent changes to
an operational NMS Stock ATS in a timely manner, while informing market participants that the
Form ATS-N Amendment is pending Commission review and could still be declared
ineffective. 341
The Commission also preliminarily believes that making public each properly filed Form
ATS-N notice of cessation would provide the public with notice that the NMS Stock ATS will
cease operations and that the organization, association, or group of persons no longer operates
pursuant to the exemption provided under Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2). The notice of
cessation would provide market participants with the date that the NMS Stock ATS will cease
operations, as designated by the NMS Stock ATS. Market participants would be able to use this
information to make arrangements to select alternative routing destinations for their orders.
341

Market participants would also be made aware if the Commission declares a Form ATSN Amendment ineffective, because the Commission would also post each order of
ineffectiveness of a Form ATS-N Amendment. See proposed Rule 304(b)(2)(E).

155

Furthermore, the Commission understands that many broker-dealer operators maintain
websites for their NMS Stock ATSs. The Commission preliminarily believes that market
participants would find it helpful for an NMS Stock ATS to make market participants aware that
certain of the NMS Stock ATS’s Form ATS-N filings are publicly posted on the Commission’s
website. Therefore, to the extent that an NMS Stock ATS has a public website, the Commission
is proposing that Rule 304(b)(3) require each NMS Stock ATS that has a website to post on the
NMS Stock ATS’s website a direct URL hyperlink to the Commission’s website that contains
the documents enumerated in proposed Rule 304(b)(2), which includes the NMS Stock ATS’s
Form ATS-N filings. The Commission preliminarily believes that this requirement would make
it easier for market participants to review an NMS Stock ATS’s Form ATS-N filings by
providing an additional means for market participants to locate Form ATS-N filings that are
posted on the Commission’s website.
The Commission preliminarily believes that publicly posting Form ATS-N filings on the
timelines described above is important because most market participants do not have access to
information that permits them to adequately compare and contrast how some NMS Stock ATSs
would handle their orders against how a given national securities exchange or other NMS Stock
ATS would handle their orders. Currently, a Form ATS filed with the Commission by an NMS
Stock ATS is “deemed confidential when filed” under Rule 301(b)(2)(vii) of Regulation ATS,342
whereas a national securities exchange is required to both (i) make available to the public its
entire rule book and (ii) publicly file all proposed rule changes pursuant to Section 19(b) of the

342

See 17 CFR 240.301(b)(2)(vii).

156

Exchange Act.343 The Commission preliminary believes that since the adoption of Regulation
ATS, the market in execution services for NMS stocks has evolved such that trading functions of
NMS Stock ATSs have become more functionally similar to those of national securities
exchanges. 344 Unless an NMS Stock ATS voluntarily publicizes how those functionalities
operate and affect the handling of subscriber orders, there is no publicly available information
for market participants to use in order to compare and contrast the trading platform of an NMS
Stock ATS with that of a national securities exchange. Accordingly, through Form ATS-N, the
Commission proposes to require disclosures that would provide information that market
participants could use to compare and contrast the important order handling features, and other
important functionalities, of an NMS Stock ATS with those of other NMS Stock ATSs or
national securities exchanges. The Commission therefore proposes to make those disclosures
public so that market participants would have access to important information when evaluating
trading venues.
Additionally, the Commission preliminarily believes that, given changes with respect to
NMS Stock ATSs since the adoption of Regulation ATS, 345 the reasons given in the past for
maintaining the confidentiality of Form ATS filings are no longer justified for NMS Stock ATSs
in light of the benefits of operational transparency for NMS Stock ATSs that are discussed
above. First, when the Commission adopted Regulation ATS, it chose, at that time, to deem
Form ATS confidential because “[i]nformation required on Form ATS may be proprietary and
disclosure of such information could place alternative trading systems in a disadvantageous
343

See 15 U.S.C. 78s(b).

344

See supra Section III.B.

345

See generally supra Section III.

157

competitive position.” 346 As noted above, the Commission preliminarily believes that NMS
Stock ATSs have generally evolved to the point that their trading functionalities often resemble
those of national securities exchanges. 347 The Commission preliminarily believes that much of
the type and level of information that would have to be publicly disclosed by an NMS Stock
ATS pursuant to this proposal is very similar to information that national securities exchanges
must publicly disclose. For instance, proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS
to disclose, among other things, information about available order types and modifiers, hours of
operations, connectivity, order entry, co-location, order display, matching methodologies, and
order interaction procedures, all of which must be publicly disclosed by national securities
exchanges. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that, in the current market
environment, the disclosures mandated by Form ATS-N would not place NMS Stock ATSs at a
competitive disadvantage with respect to national securities exchanges. 348
Second, when the Commission adopted Regulation ATS, it sought to “encourage candid
and complete filings in order to make informed decisions and track market changes,” and
believed that keeping the reports filed on Form ATS confidential would “provide[] respondents
with the necessary comfort to make full and complete filings.” 349 Based on Commission
experience, however, many Form ATS filings currently provide only rudimentary and summary
information about the manner of operation of NMS Stock ATSs, which often requires the
Commission and its staff to ask the ATSs follow-up questions, and results in ATSs filing follow346

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70864.

347

See supra Section III.B.

348

See infra Section XIII.C.2.

349

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70864.

158

up amendments, to fully disclose how they operate. Thus, the Commission preliminarily
believes that maintaining the confidentiality of Form ATS filings with regard to NMS Stock
ATSs has not resulted uniformly in ATSs “mak[ing] full and complete filings.”
Request for Comment
101.

Do you believe market participants currently have access to information about the
operations of NMS Stock ATSs and the activities of their broker-dealer operators
and the broker-dealer operators’ affiliates, either through private disclosures from
NMS Stock ATSs, from NMS Stock ATSs that voluntarily make their Forms ATS
public, or from NMS Stock ATSs that issue frequently asked questions about their
operations, including changes to their operations, that is sufficient to help market
participants select the markets to which to route and execute their orders? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

102.

Do you believe the Commission should adopt the proposal to make public certain
Form ATS-N filings by NMS Stock ATSs? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.

103.

Do you believe the Commission should adopt the proposal to require an NMS
Stock ATS to post on the NMS Stock ATS’s website a direct URL hyperlink to
the Commission’s website that contains the documents enumerated in proposed
Rule 304(b)(2)? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

104.

Do you believe the Commission should require each NMS Stock ATS to directly
post its Form ATS-N filings on the NMS Stock ATS’s website? If so, why, and
which Form ATS-N filings? If not, why not? Please support your arguments.

159

105.

Do you believe the Commission should require each NMS Stock ATS to directly
post Commission orders related to the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of the NMS
Stock ATS’s Form ATS-N, Form ATS-N Amendments, or both on the website of
the NMS Stock ATS? If so, why, and which orders should NMS Stock ATSs be
required to post? If not, why not? Please support your arguments.

106.

Do you believe that the Commission should make public on its website the Form
ATS-N of an NMS Stock ATS that was not in operation as of the effective date of
proposed Rule 304 during the Commission’s review period and prior to declaring
the Form ATS-N effective of ineffective? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

107.

Do you believe that the Commission should make public on its website a Form
ATS-N that it has declared ineffective? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

108.

Do you believe that the Commission should make public on its website a Form
ATS-N filed by a legacy NMS Stock ATS during the Commission’s review
period and prior to its declaring the Form ATS-N effective or ineffective? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments?

109.

Do you believe that the Commission should adopt the proposal to make public on
its website all Form ATS-N Amendments during the Commission’s review period
and prior to its determination as to whether a Form ATS-N Amendment should be
declared ineffective? If so, why? If not, why not? Please support your
arguments.

160

110.

Do you believe that the Commission should adopt the proposal whereby the
Commission would continue to make public on its website a Form ATS-N
Amendment that it has declared ineffective? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.

111.

Do you believe the Commission’s current practice of making publicly available a
list of ATSs with a Form ATS on file with the Commission puts market
participants on sufficient notice of the regulatory status of NMS Stock ATSs with
which they may do business? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

112.

Does the Commission’s current practice of making publicly available a list of
ATSs with a Form ATS on file with the Commission create the potential for
market participants to misunderstand the operations of the market? If so, how? If
not, why not? Please support your arguments.

113.

Do you believe that market participants currently have sufficient information
regarding the activities of an NMS Stock ATS’s broker-dealer operator and its
affiliates as they relate to the ATS, including changes to such activities, to
evaluate conflicts of interest that may arise out of the position that the brokerdealer occupies as the operating entity of the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

114.

Do you believe the Commission’s proposal to make public certain Form ATS-N
filings would better enable market participants to evaluate conflicts of interest that
may arise out of the position that the broker-dealer occupies as the operating
entity of the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

161

115.

Do you believe that making public Form ATS-N filings would place NMS Stock
ATSs at a competitive disadvantage with respect to other trading centers,
including national securities exchanges? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

116.

Do you believe that making public Form ATS-N filings would incentivize NMS
Stock ATSs to make more accurate, current, and complete disclosures? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

117.

Do you believe the Commission should continue to make public a Form ATS-N
or Form ATS-N Amendments where the Commission has suspended, revoked, or
limited the NMS Stock ATS’s exemption pursuant to Rule 304(a)(4)? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

118.

Do you believe that responding to questions on proposed Form ATS-N would
require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose proprietary information that could place
the NMS Stock ATS or its broker-dealer operator’s other business activities at a
competitive disadvantage? If so, please identify the question on the Form ATS-N
and specify what information in response to that question would result in the
disclosure of proprietary information and describe why the disclosure could create
a competitive disadvantage for the NMS Stock ATS or its broker-dealer
operator’s other business activities.

119.

In light of the information that national securities exchanges, which compete with
NMS Stock ATSs, are required to disclose regarding their operations, should
NMS Stock ATSs continue to be eligible for the exemption from the definition of

162

exchange without having to disclose such information? Why or why not? Please
explain in detail.
E. Rule 304(c)(1) and (2): Proposed Form ATS-N Requirements
Proposed Rule 304(c)(1) would require NMS Stock ATSs to respond to each item on
Form ATS-N, as applicable, in detail and disclose information that is accurate, current, and
complete. The Commission preliminarily believes that market participants would use
information disclosed on proposed Form ATS-N to evaluate whether a particular NMS Stock
ATS would be a desirable venue to which to route their orders. In addition, the Commission
intends to use the information disclosed on the Form ATS-N to exercise oversight over and
monitor developments of NMS Stock ATSs. Given these potential uses, the Commission
preliminarily believes that it is important that the Form ATS-N contain detailed disclosures that
are accurate, current, and complete.
The Commission notes that Regulation ATS requires NMS Stock ATSs to be registered
as broker-dealers with the Commission, which entails becoming a member of FINRA and fully
complying with the broker-dealer regulatory regime. FINRA Rule 3130 requires each member
to designate and specifically identify to FINRA one or more principals to serve as a chief
compliance officer and each member to have its chief executive officer certify annually that the
member has in place processes to establish, maintain, review, test and modify written compliance
policies and written supervisory procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
applicable FINRA rules, MSRB rules and federal securities laws and regulations, and that the
chief executive officer(s) has conducted one or more meetings with the chief compliance

163

officer(s) in the preceding 12 months to discuss such processes. 350 The Commission requests
comment on whether the certification required under FINRA Rule 3130 will help ensure that the
broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS complies with proposed Rule 304, including

350

See FINRA Rule 3130(b). FINRA Rule 3120(c) sets forth the following:
The certification shall state the following:
The undersigned is/are the chief executive officer(s) (or equivalent officer(s)) of (name of
member corporation/partnership/sole proprietorship) (the "Member"). As required by
FINRA Rule 3130(b), the undersigned make(s) the following certification:
1. The Member has in place processes to:
(A) establish, maintain and review policies and procedures reasonably designed to
achieve compliance with applicable FINRA rules, MSRB rules and federal securities
laws and regulations;
(B) modify such policies and procedures as business, regulatory and legislative changes
and events dictate; and
(C) test the effectiveness of such policies and procedures on a periodic basis, the timing
and extent of which is reasonably designed to ensure continuing compliance with FINRA
rules, MSRB rules and federal securities laws and regulations.
2. The undersigned chief executive officer(s) (or equivalent officer(s)) has/have
conducted one or more meetings with the chief compliance officer(s) in the preceding 12
months, the subject of which satisfy the obligations set forth in FINRA Rule 3130.
3. The Member's processes, with respect to paragraph 1 above, are evidenced in a report
reviewed by the chief executive officer(s) (or equivalent officer(s)), chief compliance
officer(s), and such other officers as the Member may deem necessary to make this
certification. The final report has been submitted to the Member's board of directors and
audit committee or will be submitted to the Member's board of directors and audit
committee (or equivalent bodies) at the earlier of their next scheduled meetings or within
45 days of the date of execution of this certification.
4. The undersigned chief executive officer(s) (or equivalent officer(s)) has/have consulted
with the chief compliance officer(s) and other officers as applicable (referenced in
paragraph 3 above) and such other employees, outside consultants, lawyers and
accountants, to the extent deemed appropriate, in order to attest to the statements made in
this certification.

164

proposed Rule 304(c)(1), which would require the accurate, current, and complete disclosures on
Form ATS-N.
Request for Comment
120.

Do you believe that the certification required under FINRA Rule 3130 will help
ensure an NMS Stock ATS’s compliance with proposed Rule 304, including the
requirement that disclosures on Form ATS-N are accurate, current, and complete?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

Proposed Rule 304(c)(2) would provide that any report required to be filed with the
Commission under proposed Rule 304 of Regulation ATS must be filed electronically on Form
ATS-N, and include all information as prescribed in proposed Form ATS-N and the instructions
thereto. The Commission’s proposal contemplates the use of the electronic form filing system
(“EFFS”) to file a completed Form ATS-N. Based on the widespread use and availability of the
Internet, the Commission preliminarily believes that filing Form ATS-N in an electronic format
would be less burdensome and a more efficient filing process for NMS Stock ATSs and the
Commission, as it is likely to be less expensive and cumbersome than mailing paper forms to the
Commission. The proposed Form ATS-N would require an electronic signature to help ensure
the authenticity of the filing. The Commission preliminarily believes these proposed
requirements would expedite communications between the Commission and its staff and the
broker-dealer operator concerning the NMS Stock ATS and help to ensure that only personnel
authorized by the NMS Stock ATS are filing required materials. This proposed requirement is
intended to provide a uniform manner in which the Commission would receive—and the brokerdealer operator would file—the Form ATS-N made pursuant to proposed Rule 304 of Regulation
ATS. Also, NMS Stock ATSs would be able to review how other filers that were allowed to
165

become effective responded to the same questions on Form ATS-N for guidance on how to
respond. Additionally, the consistent framework would make it easier and more efficient for the
Commission and market participants reviewing the disclosures to promptly review, analyze, and
respond, as necessary, to the information proposed to be provided. 351
Further, the Commission also is proposing that documents filed through the EFFS system
must be in a text-searchable format without the use of optical character recognition. The
Commission believes that proposing to require documents to be filed in a text-searchable format
would allow the Commission and its staff and market participants to efficiently review and
analyze information provided on proposed Form ATS-N. In particular, a text-searchable format
would allow the Commission and its staff to better gather, analyze, and use data filed as exhibits,
whereas a non-text-searchable format filing would require significantly more steps and labor to
review and analyze data.
The Commission is proposing that proposed Form ATS-N be filed with the Commission
in a structured format. The Commission preliminarily believes that proposing Form ATS-N to
be filed with the Commission in a structured format could allow the Commission and market
participants to better search and analyze information about NMS Stock ATSs. The Commission
is proposing that Parts I (Name) and II (Broker-Dealer Operator Registration and Contact
Information) of proposed Form ATS-N would be provided as fillable forms on the Commission’s
EFFS system. The Commission is proposing that Part III (Activities of the Broker-Dealer
Operator and Affiliates) of proposed Form ATS-N would be filed in a structured format whereby
351

This proposed requirement is consistent with electronic-reporting standards set forth in
Form SCI. See SCI Adopting Release, supra note 17, at 72357 (discussing electronic
filing requirements of Form SCI).

166

the filer would provide checkbox responses to certain questions and narrative responses that are
block-text tagged by Item. The Commission is proposing that Part IV (The NMS Stock ATS
Manner of Operations) of proposed Form ATS-N would also be filed in a structured format in
that the filer would block-text tag narrative responses by Item. The Commission is proposing
that Part V (Contact Information, Signature Block, and Consent to Service) of proposed Form
ATS-N would be provided as fillable forms on the Commission’s EFFS system.
The Commission notes that there are a variety of methods by which information can be
collected and structured for review and analysis. For example, some or all of the information
provided on Form ATS-N could be structured according to a particular standard that already
exists, or a new taxonomy that the Commission creates, or as a single machine-readable PDF.
Given the Commission’s proposal that information on Form ATS-N be filed in a structured
format, the Commission seeks comment on the manner in which proposed Form ATS-N could be
structured to better enable the Commission and market participants to collect and analyze the
data.
Request for Comment
121.

Do you believe that the electronic filing requirement of proposed Rule 304(c)(2)
is appropriate? Do you believe that the electronic filing of Form ATS-N would be
less burdensome and/or a more efficient filing process for NMS Stock ATSs
compared to delivering the Form ATS-N by mail on paper? Alternatively, would
the submission of proposed Form ATS-N via electronic mail to one or more
Commission email addresses be a more appropriate way for NMS Stock ATSs to
file Form ATS-N with the Commission? Are there other alternative methods that
would be preferable? If so, please describe. Is the proposal to require an
167

electronic signature appropriate? If not, why not? Please support your
arguments.
122.

Should the Commission adopt the proposal that proposed Form ATS-N should be
filed with the Commission in a structured format? Why or why not? If so, what
standards of structuring should be used for information to be provided on
proposed Form ATS-N? Please explain. If not, what format should proposed
Form ATS-N take? Please identify the format and explain.

123.

Are there any specific aspects of proposed Form ATS-N that should or should not
be provided in a structured format? Please identify those aspects of proposed
Form ATS-N that should or should not be provided in a structured format and
explain why those aspects of the form should or should not be structured.

124.

Should the Commission adopt the proposal to require documents to be filed in a
text-searchable format on proposed Form ATS-N? Why or why not? Please
support your arguments.

168

V.

Proposed Form ATS-N: Submission Type and Part I of Form ATS-N
Proposed Form ATS-N would require that an entity identify the type of filing by marking

the appropriate checkbox. The Form ATS-N filing may either be a Form ATS-N, a Form ATS-N
Amendment, or a notice of cessation. In addition, proposed Form ATS-N would require the
NMS Stock ATS to indicate whether a Form ATS-N Amendment is being submitted as a
material amendment, periodic amendment, or correcting amendment. The Commission is also
proposing that, for an Form ATS-N Amendment, the NMS Stock ATS provide a brief narrative
description of the amendment so market participants can quickly understand the nature of the
Form ATS-N Amendment. 352 For notices of cessation, proposed Form ATS-N would require the
date that the NMS Stock ATS will cease to operate. A Form ATS-N filer may also withdraw a
previously filed Form ATS-N. 353
Part I of proposed Form ATS-N would require the name of the broker-dealer operator and
the NMS Stock ATS. Rule 301(b)(1) requires that an ATS, including an NMS Stock ATS,
register as a broker-dealer under Section 15 of the Exchange Act.354 Today, while some brokerdealers are registered with the Commission for the sole purpose of operating as an ATS, most
broker-dealer operators of ATSs engage in brokerage and/or dealing activities in addition to
352

For a Form ATS-N Amendment, the NMS Stock ATS would also be required to attach as
Exhibit 3A and/or Exhibit 4A a redline(s), showing changes to Part III and/or Part IV of
proposed Form ATS-N, respectively, in order to point out the amendment(s) to its prior
Form ATS-N filing. The Commission preliminarily believes that requiring NMS Stock
ATSs to attach redlines to their Form ATS-N Amendments would better enable market
participants and the Commission to review Form ATS-N Amendments in a more efficient
manner.

353

Instruction B to proposed Form ATS-N would provide that if an NMS Stock ATS
determines to withdraw a Form ATS-N, it must select the appropriate checkbox and
provide the correct file number to withdraw the submission.

354

17 CFR 242.301(b)(1); 15 U.S.C. 78o.

169

operating an NMS Stock ATS. In some cases, broker-dealers operate multiple NMS Stock
ATSs. 355 To identify the registered broker-dealer for an NMS Stock ATS and to assist the
Commission in collecting and organizing its filings, proposed Form ATS-N would require the
name of the registered broker-dealer for the NMS Stock ATS (i.e., the broker-dealer operator), as
it is stated on Form BD, in Part I, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N. The name of the registered
broker-dealer for the NMS Stock ATS would also assist the Commission in ensuring that the
NMS Stock ATS has appropriately registered as a broker-dealer as part of its exemption from
exchange registration under Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2). To the extent that a “DBA” (doing
business as) is used to identify the NMS Stock ATS to the public or the Commission, or if a
registered broker-dealer operates multiple NMS Stock ATSs, proposed Form ATS-N would
require the full name of the NMS Stock ATS under which business is conducted, if any, in Part I,
Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N. Part I, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N would require the
NMS Stock ATS to provide its Market Participant Identifier (“MPID”) for the NMS Stock
ATS. 356 The Commission preliminarily believes that providing the name of the NMS Stock ATS
or DBA and its MPID would provide clarity to the public and Commission about the identity
under which the business of the NMS Stock ATS is conducted. Proposed Form ATS-N would

355

A broker-dealer operator would be required to file a separate Form ATS-N for each NMS
Stock ATS operated by the broker-dealer. See Instruction A of proposed Form ATS-N.

356

An MPID, or other mechanism or mnemonic, is used to identify a market participant for
the purposes of electronically accessing a national securities exchange or an ATS. See,
e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 63241 (November 3, 2010), 75 FR 69792
(November 15, 2010). ATSs are required to use a unique MPID for the ATS when
reporting trade information to FINRA. See FINRA ATS Reporting Approval, supra note
122.

170

also require an ATS to identify whether it is currently operating pursuant to a previously filed
initial operation report on Form ATS.
Request for Comment
125.

Do you believe that Part I of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear with
respect to the disclosures that would be required? If not, how should Part I of
proposed Form ATS-N be revised to provide additional clarity? Please explain in
detail and support your arguments.

126.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful with regard to the disclosures in Part I? If so, describe such
information and explain whether, and if so why, such information should be
required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your
arguments.

127.

Do you believe that the broker-dealer operator should be required to identify the
type of Form ATS-N filing (i.e., Form ATS-N, Form ATS-N Amendment, notice
of cessation, or withdrawal) by marking the appropriate checkbox, and for notices
of cessation, provide the date that the NMS Stock ATS will cease to operate?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

128.

Do you believe that the broker-dealer operator should be required to provide a
brief summary of a Form ATS-N Amendment? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.

129.

Do you believe that a broker-dealer operator should be allowed to withdraw a
previously filed Form ATS-N? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

171

If so, when should a broker-dealer operator be permitted to withdraw a previously
filed Form ATS-N? Please explain.
130.

Do you believe that the broker-dealer operator should be required to disclose the
date on which it commenced, or intends to commence, operation of the NMS
Stock ATS in Part I of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

131.

Do you believe that the Commission should require the MPID of the NMS Stock
ATS as a required disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

132.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part I of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in Part I of
proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal too much (or not
enough) information? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

172

VI.

Part II of Proposed Form ATS-N: Broker-Dealer Operator Registration
Information
Part II of proposed Form ATS-N would require certain general information regarding the

broker-dealer operator and the NMS Stock ATS. With respect to the broker-dealer operator, Part
II of proposed Form ATS-N would require registration information including: its SEC File
Number, Central Registration Depository (“CRD”) Number, effective date of the broker-dealer
operator’s registration with the Commission, the name of the national securities association with
which it is a member, and the effective date of broker-dealer operator’s membership with the
national securities association (e.g., FINRA). The Commission proposes to require this
information to assess whether the NMS Stock ATS has complied with the requirement to register
as a broker-dealer pursuant to Rule 301(b)(1) of Regulation ATS. This information also would
expedite the Commission’s communications with the broker-dealer operator’s self-regulatory
organization as needed.
Additionally, Part II of proposed Form ATS-N would require certain information
regarding the legal status of the broker-dealer operator. Specifically, proposed Form ATS-N
would require that the broker-dealer operator provide its legal status (e.g., corporation,
partnership, sole proprietorship) and except in the case of a sole proprietorship, the date of
formation and state or country in which it is formed. The Commission is proposing to require
the information related to the broker-dealer operator’s legal status to help ensure that the brokerdealer operator has appropriately filed as a legal entity (except in the case of sole
proprietorships).
Proposed Form ATS-N would also require the address of the physical location of the
NMS Stock ATS matching system and, if it is different from the physical location, the mailing

173

address of the NMS Stock ATS. If the broker-dealer operator is a sole proprietorship and an
address of the NMS Stock ATS is a private residence, the Commission would not make that
information available on the Commission’s website due to concerns about the confidentiality of
personally identifiable information. Furthermore, Part II would require the NMS Stock ATS to
provide a URL address for the website of the NMS Stock ATS, and in the signature block in Part
V of proposed Form ATS-N, the representative of the broker-dealer operator would also be
required to provide his or her business contact information, including the person’s name and title,
telephone number, and e-mail address. 357 This information would facilitate communication with
the broker-dealer operator and the NMS Stock ATS during the Commission’s review of a Form
ATS-N and later as necessary as part of the Commission’s ongoing monitoring of the NMS
Stock ATS. To the extent the broker-dealer operator’s contact information that is provided in
Part II is made publicly available, that information would also facilitate communication between
subscribers and the broker-dealer operator.
Part II of proposed Form ATS-N would also require an NMS Stock ATS to attach, as
Exhibit 1, a copy of any materials currently provided to subscribers or other persons, related to

357

The Commission would also keep the contact information of the broker-dealer operator’s
representative confidential, subject to applicable law.
Consistent with the requirements of proposed Form ATS-N, the signature block in Part V
would also require the NMS Stock ATS to consent that service of any civil action
brought by, or notice of any proceeding before, the Commission or a SRO in connection
with the ATS’s activities may be given by registered or certified mail or email to the
contact employee at the primary street address or email address, or mailing address if
different, given in Part I. The signatory would further represent that the information and
statements contained on the submitted Form ATS-N, including exhibits, schedules,
attached documents, and any other information filed, are current, true, and complete.

174

the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or the disclosures on Form ATS-N. 358 The Commission
understands that some ATSs may provide to subscribers, or other persons, marketing material or
other material containing important information about the ATS’s operations in FIX protocol
procedures, rules of engagement/user manuals, or frequently asked questions. These documents
may include information regarding, among other things, the order matching procedures, priority
rules, order types, and order entry and execution procedures of the ATS, and in some instances,
such documents may contain important information about an NMS Stock ATS that may not be
specified in the required disclosures under proposed Form ATS-N. The Commission notes that
the purpose of proposed Form ATS-N is to provide operational transparency with regard to the
NMS Stock ATS. To the extent that the NMS Stock ATS discloses information on standardized
materials provided to certain subscribers, whether an individual or on group basis, the
Commission preliminarily believes the NMS Stock ATS should make this information available
to all subscribers, and therefore the Commission is proposing to require these materials be filed
as an attachment to Exhibit 1 to proposed Form ATS-N. The Commission further notes that this
requirement is similar to the requirement of subpart (f) of Exhibit F on existing Form ATS. 359
Proposed Form ATS-N also would require that the broker-dealer operator attach, as
Exhibits 2A and 2B (or provide a link to the relevant URL address where the required documents
can be found), a copy of the most recently filed Schedule A of the broker-dealer operator’s Form

358

For currently operating NMS Stock ATSs that file a Form ATS-N, each ATS would only
be required to provide the materials it currently provides to subscribers or other persons
and would not be required to attach materials provided to subscribers or other person in
the past.

359

Subpart (f) of Form ATS requires a copy of the ATS’s subscriber manual and any other
materials provided to subscribers.

175

BD disclosing information related to direct owners and executive officers, and a copy of the most
recently filed Schedule B of the broker-dealer operator’s Form BD disclosing information related
to indirect owners, respectively. The proposed Form ATS-N would require information from the
broker-dealer operator’s Schedule A and Schedule B of Form BD to help market participants
understand the persons and entities that directly and indirectly own the broker-dealer operator.
The Commission is requiring that NMS Stock ATSs provide names of the direct and indirect
owners of the broker-dealer operator on Form ATS-N, even though the same information is
provided on Form BD, because information about the ownership of the broker-dealer operator
will enable market participants to understand better any potential conflicts of interest that may
arise therefrom, which is one of the central purposes of proposed Form ATS-N. Also, providing
this information on Form ATS-N would facilitate the Commission’s, as well as market
participants’, analysis of the ownership and any potential for conflicts arising therefrom by
providing this information all on one form. Moreover, the Commission preliminarily believes it
is appropriate for NMS Stock ATSs to provide this information using a URL address for these
documents in lieu of attaching the actual documents to their Form ATS-N filings.
Request for Comment.
133.

Do you believe that Part II of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear with
respect to the disclosures that would be required? If not, how should Part II of
proposed Form ATS-N be revised to provide additional clarity? Please explain in
detail.

134.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful with regard to the disclosures in Part II? If so, describe such
information and explain whether, and if so why, such information should be
176

required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your
arguments.
135.

Do you believe that the Commission should require the effective date of brokerdealer registration with the Commission as a required disclosure on proposed
Form ATS-N? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

136.

Do you believe that the Commission should require the SEC File number of the
broker-dealer operator as a required disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments.

137.

Do you believe that the Commission should require the CRD number of the
broker-dealer operator as a required disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments.

138.

Do you believe that the Commission should require the address of the physical
location of the NMS Stock ATS’s matching system as a required disclosure on
proposed Form ATS-N? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

139.

Do you believe that the Commission should require the mailing address of the
NMS Stock ATS as a required disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

140.

Do you believe that the Commission should require the website URL of the NMS
Stock ATS as a required disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

141.

Do you believe that the Commission should require NMS Stock ATSs to disclose
materials provided to subscribers or other persons related to the operations of the
NMS Stock ATS on proposed Form ATS-N? Why or why not? Please support
177

your arguments. Do you believe such materials should be provided to the
Commission as an Exhibit? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
Do you believe that the NMS Stock ATS should be able to provide a URL where
these documents can be found in lieu of providing the documents as an Exhibit?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
142.

Do you believe it is appropriate for the Commission to not make public the
address of the NMS Stock ATS that is a sole proprietorship? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

143.

Do you believe it is appropriate for the Commission to not make public the
contact information of the broker-dealer operator’s representative? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments.

144.

Do you believe that there is any information, that would be required to be
disclosed in Part II of proposed Form ATS-N that the Commission should not
require to be disclosed due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business
reasons, trade secrets, burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and
why? Please support your arguments.

145.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part II of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in Part II of
proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal too much (or not
enough) information? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

146.

Do you believe there are there certain types of materials provided to subscribers
that would be responsive to Exhibit 1 that should or should not be disclosed on
Form ATS-N? If so, what types of materials and why? Do you believe an NMS
178

Stock ATS should provide in response to Exhibit 1 the materials the NMS Stock
ATS provides to subscribers such as FIX protocol procedures, rules of
engagement/user manuals, frequently asked questions, or marketing materials?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
147.

Do you believe the Commission should require NMS Stock ATSs to provide on
Form ATS-N information on Exhibits 2A and 2B, in light of the fact that the
information is already provided on Form BD?

148.

Do you believe the Commission should require the NMS Stock ATS to provide
disclosure about its governance structure and compliance programs and controls
to comply with Regulation ATS? Why or why not? If so, what aspects of the
NMS Stock ATSs’ governance structure and compliance programs and controls to
comply with Regulation ATS should the NMS Stock ATS be required to disclose?
Please support your arguments.

179

VII.

Part III of Proposed Form ATS-N: Activities of the Broker-Dealer Operator and Its
Affiliates

A. The Relationship between the Broker-Dealer Operator’s Operation of the NMS
Stock ATS and Its Other Operations
1.

Background

The Commission preliminarily believes that to understand the operations of an NMS
Stock ATS, it is necessary to understand the relationship and interactions between the NMS
Stock ATS and its registered broker-dealer operator as well as the relationship and interactions
between the NMS Stock ATS and the affiliates of its broker-dealer operator. As previously
noted, Rule 301(b)(1) of Regulation ATS requires that an ATS, including an NMS Stock ATS,
register as broker-dealer under Section 15 of the Exchange Act (the “broker dealer operator”).360
The broker-dealer operator of the ATS trading platform is legally responsible for all operational
aspects of the ATS and for ensuring that the ATS operates in compliance with applicable federal
securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, including Regulation ATS. The brokerdealer operator, and in some cases, its affiliates, 361 controls access to the ATS and provides the
technology and systems that support the trading on the ATS. 362 Based on Commission
experience, the broker-dealer operator, or in some cases, its affiliates, directs the personnel that

360

17 CFR 242.301(b)(1); 15 U.S.C. 78o. Additionally, as a registered entity with the
Commission, a broker-dealer operating an ATS is subject to applicable federal securities
laws, as well as other requirements, including the rules of any SRO of which it is a
member.

361

The Commission is proposing to define “affiliate” for purposes of Form ATS-N as
described and discussed further below. See infra note 378 and accompanying text. See
also Instruction G of proposed Form ATS-N.

362

Some technology or functions of an ATS may be licensed from a third party. The brokerdealer operator of the ATS is nonetheless legally responsible for ensuring that all aspects
of the ATS comply with applicable laws.

180

service the ATS or otherwise manages service providers that may perform certain functions of
the ATS. The broker-dealer operator, or in some cases, its affiliates, also determines, among
other things: (1) what securities will trade on the ATS; (2) who may become subscribers that
will participate on the ATS; (3) whether there will be segmented categories of order flow in the
ATS, and if so, how the order flow will be segmented; (4) order matching methodologies and
priority rules; (5) the rules governing the interaction and execution of orders; and (6) the display,
if any, of orders and trading interest. Additionally, the broker-dealer operator, or in some cases,
its affiliates, determines the means by which orders are entered on and subscribers access the
ATS, in many cases, through the use of a smart order router that is owned and operated by the
broker-dealer operator or one of its affiliates. The broker-dealer operator, or in some cases, its
affiliates, also controls the market data that the ATS uses to prioritize, match, and execute orders
and the transmission of and access to confidential order and execution information sent to and
from the ATS. 363 Based on Commission experience, the operations of the NMS Stock ATS and
the other operations of the broker-dealer operator are usually closely intertwined as the brokerdealer operator generally leverages its information technology, systems, personnel, and market
data, and those of its affiliates, to operate the ATS.
The Commission is also aware that most ATSs that currently transact in NMS stocks are
operated by broker-dealers that engage in significant brokerage and dealing activities in addition
to their operation of an ATS(s).364 These multi-service broker-dealers may offer their customers
363

For example, the broker-dealer operator determines the source of market data that the
NMS Stock ATS uses to calculate the NBBO and how the NBBO will be calculated.

364

The Commission notes that, based on Form BD disclosures from June of 2015, all but 7
of the 36 broker-dealer operators whose ATSs trade NMS stocks disclose business
activities other than operating an ATS. The other business activities disclosed by broker-

181

a variety of brokerage services, often with or through their affiliates, including algorithmic
trading strategy software, agency sales desk support, and automated smart order routing services.
Multi-service broker-dealers that also operate an NMS Stock ATS may use the ATS as a
complement to the broker-dealer’s other service lines and may use the ATS as an opportunity to
execute orders “in house” before seeking contra-side interest at other execution venues. For
instance, a broker-dealer operator, or its affiliate, may operate, among other things, an OTC
market making desk or proprietary trading desks in addition to operating an NMS Stock ATS.365
A multi-service broker-dealer may also execute orders in NMS stocks internally (and not within
its respective NMS Stock ATS(s)) by trading as principal against such orders or crossing orders
as agent in a riskless principal capacity, before routing the orders to its NMS Stock ATS(s) or
dealer operators (and the number of such broker-dealer operators providing such
disclosure) include: retailing corporate equity securities over-the-counter (22); put and
call broker or dealer or option writer (18); exchange commission business other than
floor activities (18); private placements of securities (17); selling corporate debt
securities (17); government securities broker (15); trading securities for own account
(15); municipal securities broker (13); exchange member engaged in floor activities (13);
non-exchange member arranging for transactions in listed securities by exchange member
(12); underwriter or selling group participant (corporate securities other than mutual
funds) (13); selling interests in mortgages or other receivables (12); making inter-dealer
markets in corporate securities over-the-counter (11); government securities dealer (11);
municipal securities dealer (11); solicitor of time deposits in a financial institution (7);
investment advisory services (7). This data does not include the business activities of
affiliates of the broker-dealer operators. Of the 10 ATSs that traded the most NMS stock
measured by total shares executed during the second quarter of 2015, 6 disclose on Form
BD that they engage in proprietary trading and making inter-dealer markets in corporate
securities OTC, and 7 disclose retailing corporate equities OTC. See FINRA’s ATS
Transparency Data Quarterly Statistics, 2nd Quarter of 2015,
http://www.finra.org/industry/ats/ats-transparency-data-quarterly-statistics.
365

These non-ATS, OTC activities in NMS stocks may include operating as an OTC market
maker, block positioner, or operating an internal broker-dealer system. See 2010 Equity
Market Structure Release, supra note 124 at 3599-3600. See also infra note 387 and
accompanying text. Additionally, an affiliate of the broker-dealer operator of an NMS
Stock ATS may also operate non-ATS trading centers.

182

another external trading center. 366 Consequently, non-ATS trading centers operated by the
broker-dealer operator of an ATS (i.e., internal executions by the broker-dealer outside of an
ATS), or its affiliates, often compete with the ATS as a trading venue for the execution of
transactions in NMS stocks.
2.

Potential Conflicts of Interest for the Broker-Dealer Operator or its Affiliates

Due to the frequent overlap between the operations of the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates outlined above and the operations of ATSs that trade NMS stocks, the Commission
preliminarily believes that the interests of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates sometimes
compete with the interests of an ATS’s subscribers, or customers of the ATS’s subscribers, for
executions on the ATS. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that these
competing interests, at times, may give rise to potential conflicts of interest for broker-dealer
operators of NMS Stock ATSs or their affiliates. Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily
believes that the frequent overlap between the operation of ATSs that trade NMS stocks and the
other operations of broker-dealer operators or their affiliates gives rise to the potential for
information leakage of subscribers’ confidential trading information to other business units of the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates. 367
When evaluating an NMS Stock ATS as a possible trading venue, a market participant
would likely want to know about the various activities in which a broker-dealer operator and its

366

17 CFR 242.600(b)(78).

367

In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission recognized the potential for
abuse involving a broker-dealer that operates an ATS and offers other traditional
brokerage services, and expressed concern about the potential for the misuse of
confidential trading information. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at
70879.

183

affiliates engage that may give rise to conflicts of interests. For example, as noted above, the
broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS may operate multiple trading centers, which
operate as competing trading venues for the execution of trades in NMS stocks. Many brokerdealer operators or their affiliates trade proprietarily on the NMS Stock ATS. If a broker-dealer
operator that operates an NMS Stock ATS is also able to trade on that NMS Stock ATS, there
may be an incentive for the broker-dealer operator to operate its NMS Stock ATS in a manner
that favors the trading activity of the broker-dealer operator’s business units or affiliates. A
broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS may provide its other business units or affiliates,
who may be subscribers to the NMS Stock ATS, with access to certain services of the NMS
Stock ATS that are not provided to other subscribers, which may result in trading advantages to
those business units or affiliates. 368 The Commission preliminarily believes that market
participants that subscribe and route orders to NMS Stock ATSs would want to know how a
broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS treats subscriber orders versus orders of its
business units or its affiliates. The Commission preliminarily believes that customers of the
broker-dealer operator, who may also be subscribers to the NMS Stock ATS, would also want to
better understand the circumstances in which the broker-dealer operator may send their orders to
its NMS Stock ATS, internalize their orders outside of the NMS Stock ATS, or route to another
trading venue.

368

Such benefits or other advantages could include the NMS Stock ATS providing itself or
its affiliates with faster access to the NMS Stock ATS or priority in executions over other
subscribers. Unlike registered national securities exchanges, ATSs are not required to
have rules that are designed not to permit unfair discrimination; however, the advantages
that a broker-dealer operator may provide to itself or its affiliates may not be fully
disclosed to subscribers to an ATS.

184

Concerns regarding potential conflicts of interests involving trading venues that execute
securities transactions are not novel. 369 In the context of national securities exchanges, the
Commission has expressed concern that the affiliation of a registered national securities
exchange with one of its members raises potential conflicts of interest, and the potential for
unfair competitive advantage. 370 Because the Commission reviews the rules of registered
national securities exchanges, a process which requires, among other things, that to approve
certain rule changes the Commission find that the exchange’s proposed rule changes are
consistent with the Exchange Act, 371 each existing national securities exchange has implemented

369

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 50700, 69 FR 71256, 71257 (December
8, 2004) (discussing the inherent conflicts of interest between a self-regulatory
organization’s regulatory obligations and the interests of its members, its market
operations, its listed issuers, and, in the case of a demutualized SRO, its shareholders);
50699, 69 FR 71126 (December 8, 2004) (proposing rules that the Commission believed
would help insulate the regulatory activities of an exchange or national securities
association from the conflicts of interest that otherwise may arise by virtue of its market
operations); 63107, 75 FR 65882 (October 26, 2010) (proposing Regulation MC under
the Exchange Act to mitigate conflicts of interest regarding ownership interests and
voting rights with respect to security-based swap clearing agencies, security-based swap
execution facilities, and security-based swap exchanges pursuant to the Dodd Frank Act,
Pub. L. No. 111-203, Section 765).

370

See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 66808 (April 13, 2012) 77 FR 23294
(April 18, 2012)(SR-BATS-2012-013) (order approving a proposed rule change by
BATS Exchange, Inc. (“BATS Exchange”) relating to its ability to receive inbound
routes of equities orders through BATS Trading, Inc., BATS Exchange’s routing brokerdealer, from BATS-Y Exchange, Inc.) at 23295 n.16 and accompanying text; 59281
(January 22, 2009), 74 FR 5014 (January 28, 2009) (SR-NYSE-2008-120) (order
approving a joint venture between NYSE and BIDS Holdings L.P.) (“NYSE/BIDS
Order”); 54170 (July 18, 2006), 71 FR 42149 (July 25, 2006) (SR-NASDAQ-2006-006)
(order approving Nasdaq’s proposal to adopt Nasdaq Rule 2140, restricting affiliations
between Nasdaq and its members) (“Nasdaq Affiliation Order”); and 53382 (February 27,
2006), 71 FR 11251 (March 6, 2006) (SR-NYSE-2005-77) (order approving the
combination of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. and Archipelago Holdings, Inc.)
(“NYSE/Arca Order”).

371

See 15 U.S.C. 78s(b).

185

rules that restrict affiliation between the national securities exchange and its members to mitigate
the potential for conflicts of interest.372
In the context of a national securities exchange’s affiliation with one of its members, the
Commission’s concerns stem from, among other things, the potential for unfair competitive
advantages that the affiliated member could have by virtue of informational or operational
advantages or the ability to receive preferential treatment. 373 These same concerns are present in
the context of trading by the broker-dealer operator, or its affiliates, on the ATS that the brokerdealer operator operates. For example, the potential exists for the broker-dealer operator of an
NMS Stock ATS to place its commercial interests, or those of its affiliates, before those of

372

For example, registered national securities exchanges have rules that prevent the national
securities exchange from being affiliated with a member of the exchange, or with an
affiliate of a member of the exchange, absent Commission approval. See, e.g., NYSE
Rule 2B, which provides, in part, that: “Without prior SEC approval, the [New York
Stock Exchange LLC (“NYSE”)] or any entity with which it is affiliated shall not,
directly or indirectly, acquire or maintain an ownership interest in a member
organization. In addition, a member organization shall not be or become an affiliate of
the [NYSE], or an affiliate of any affiliate of the [NYSE] . . . .” See also Nasdaq Rule
2160, and BZX Rule 2.10. In cases where the Commission has approved exceptions to
this prohibition, there have been limitations and conditions on the activities of the
exchange and its affiliated member designed to address concerns about potential conflicts
of interest and unfair competitive advantage. See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release
No. 58375 (August 18, 2008), 73 FR 49498 (August 21, 2008) (File No. 10-182) (In the
Matter of the Application of BATS Exchange, Inc. for Registration as a National
Securities Exchange; Findings, Opinion, and Order of the Commission), at 49502 n.90-94
and accompanying text (approving the affiliation between BATS Exchange and its
affiliated member BATS Trading in connection with the provision of routing services by
BATS Trading for BATS Exchange and subject to certain limitations and conditions).

373

See, e.g., Nasdaq Affiliation Order, supra note 370, at 42151. The Commission’s
concern with respect to a national securities exchange’s affiliation with one of its
members also stemmed from the possible conflicts of interest that could arise between a
national securities exchange’s self-regulatory obligations and its commercial interest.
See id. Because ATSs are not SROs, and therefore do not have self-regulatory
obligations, this particular concern is not present in the context of ATSs.

186

subscribers that route orders to the NMS Stock ATS directly or indirectly through the brokerdealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS or its affiliates. Some of the settled enforcement actions
against ATSs that trade NMS stocks highlight this potential. 374 Therefore, as explained further
below, the Commission proposes to require NMS Stock ATSs to disclose information about
certain aspects of the activities of the NMS Stock ATS’s broker-dealer operator, and its affiliates,

374

See, e.g., In the Matter of ITG Inc. and Alternet Securities Inc., Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 75672 (Aug. 12, 2015), https://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2015/339887.pdf (order instituting administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings, making
findings, and imposing remedial sanctions and a cease-and-desist order) (“ITG
Settlement”); In the Matter of UBS Securities LLC, Securities Exchange Act Release No.
74060 (Jan. 15, 2015), http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2015/33-9697.pdf (order
instituting administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings, making findings, and
imposing remedial sanctions and a cease-and-desist order) (“UBS Settlement”); In the
Matter of Lavaflow, Inc., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 72673 (Jul. 25, 2014),
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2014/34-72673.pdf (order instituting administrative
and cease-and-desist proceedings, making findings, and imposing remedial sanctions and
a cease-and-desist order) (“LavaFlow Settlement”); In the Matter of Liquidnet, Inc.,
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 72339 (Jun. 6, 2014),
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2014/33-9596.pdf (order instituting administrative
and cease-and-desist proceedings, making findings, and imposing remedial sanctions and
a cease-and-desist order) (“Liquidnet Settlement”); In the Matter of eBX, LLC, Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 67969 (Oct. 3, 2012),
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2012/34-67969.pdf (order instituting administrative
and cease-and-desist proceedings, making findings, and imposing remedial sanctions and
a cease-and-desist order) (“LeveL Settlement”); In the Matter of Pipeline Trading
Systems LLC, Fred J. Federspiel, and Alfred R. Berkeley III, Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 9271 (Oct. 24, 2011) (order instituting administrative and cease-and-desist
proceedings, making findings, and imposing remedial sanctions and a cease-and-desist
order), https://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2011/33-9271.pdf (“Pipeline Settlement”);
In the Matter of INET ATS, Inc., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 53631 (Apr. 12,
2006), https://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/2006/34-53631.pdf (order instituting
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings, making findings, and imposing remedial
sanctions and a cease-and-desist order); and In the Matter of BRUT, LLC, Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 48718 (Oct. 30, 2003),
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/admin/34-48718.htm (order instituting administrative and
cease-and-desist proceedings, making findings, and imposing remedial sanctions and a
cease-and-desist order).

187

in connection with the NMS Stock ATS, to help market participants assess potential conflicts of
interest that may adversely impact their trading on the NMS Stock ATS.
Finally, due to the overlap between the operation of NMS Stock ATSs and the other
operations of broker-dealer operators, the Commission is concerned that market participants have
limited information about how the operations of the broker-dealer operator’s business units or its
affiliates may give rise to information leakage of subscribers’ confidential trading information
among those business units or affiliates. For instance, if a proprietary trading desk of the brokerdealer operator is able to enter orders or other trading interest to the NMS Stock ATS, that
trading desk may have means to see the incoming order flow of unaffiliated subscribers to the
NMS Stock ATS. Furthermore, as demonstrated by several enforcement actions, a broker-dealer
operator may at times provide some subscribers—including its business units or those of its
affiliates—access to certain trading information that it does not provide to others. 375
Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that the disclosure of certain information
about the activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates with respect to the NMS Stock
ATS would enable market participants to better assess whether the potential for information
leakage exists. The Commission preliminarily believes that such disclosures would help a
market participant independently evaluate whether submitting order flow to a particular NMS
Stock ATS aligns with its business interests and would help it achieve its investing or trading
objectives.

375

See id.

188

B. Disclosures Required under Part III of Proposed Form ATS-N
Part III of proposed Form ATS-N would require that broker-dealer operators of NMS
Stock ATSs include, as applicable, disclosures that pertain to the broker-dealer operator and its
affiliates of an NMS Stock ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that these proposed
disclosure requirements would help ensure that market participants and the Commission are
adequately informed about: (1) the operation of the NMS Stock ATS—regardless of the
corporate structure of the NMS Stock ATS and that of its broker-dealer operator, or any
arrangements the broker-dealer operator may have made, whether contractual or otherwise,
pertaining to the operation of its NMS Stock ATS; and (2) any potential conflicts of interest the
broker-dealer operator may have with respect to the operation of its NMS Stock ATS.
The Commission has also considered other alternatives to address the potential conflicts
of interest between NMS Stock ATSs and their broker-dealer operators. 376 For example, the
Commission could require an NMS Stock ATS to operate as a “stand-alone” entity having no
affiliation with any broker-dealer that seeks to execute proprietary or agency orders in the NMS
Stock ATS. This alternative would eliminate any potential conflicts of interest by requiring a
broker-dealer that operates an NMS Stock ATS to have only a single business function—
operating the NMS Stock ATS—and eliminating any other functions, such as trading on a
proprietary basis or routing customer orders. As another alternative, and short of requiring NMS
Stock ATSs to operate on a stand-alone basis, the Commission could continue to permit brokerdealer operators to continue to act as a broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS and engage
in non-ATS functions while imposing new requirements designed to limit potential conflicts.
376

See infra Section XIII.D.7 for a further discussion of alternatives to address potential
conflicts of interest.

189

The Commission preliminarily believes that the above alternatives could be significantly
more intrusive and substantially affect or limit the current operations of ATSs that trade NMS
stocks relative to requiring additional disclosures about the operations of the broker-dealer
operator and its affiliates, and therefore is not proposing such alternatives at this time. The
Commission is instead proposing that NMS Stock ATSs and their broker-dealer operators
provide additional disclosures, both to the Commission and the public, about how they interact.
Request for Comment
149.

Do you believe that it is necessary to have some understanding of the broader
activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates in order to understand and
evaluate the operation of an NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.

150.

Do you believe that conflicts of interest could arise from a broker-dealer’s
operation of an NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? If so, please explain what
these conflicts of interest are. Do you believe that potential conflicts of interest
should be disclosed to the public? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

151.

Do you believe that certain conflicts of interest arising out of the broker-dealer’s
operation of the NMS Stock ATS should be prohibited? Why or why not? Please
support your arguments.

152.

Do you believe that the Commission should adopt an alternative approach, either
those described above or any other alternative, such as a prohibition, regarding
potential conflicts of interest arising from a broker-dealer’s operation of an NMS

190

Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your arguments. If so, what
approach should the Commission adopt? Please be specific.
153.

Do you believe that the Commission should require information barriers between
the ATS and non-ATS business units of the broker-dealer operator? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments.

154.

Do you believe that the Commission should require an NMS Stock ATS to
operate as a “stand-alone” entity and have no affiliation with any broker-dealer
that seeks to execute proprietary or agency orders in the ATS? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments. Do you believe that the proposed disclosures on
Form ATS-N would help broker-dealers better assess whether the routing of their
customers’ orders to a particular NMS Stock ATS fulfills the broker-dealer’s duty
of best execution? 377 Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

155.

Do you believe that the proposed disclosures on Form ATS-N would help
customers of broker-dealers to better evaluate whether their broker-dealer is
fulfilling its duty of best-execution with respect to orders routed to NMS Stock
ATSs? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

1.

Proposed Definitions of “Affiliate” and “Control”

For the purposes of the proposed disclosures regarding affiliates of the broker-dealer
operator, the Commission is proposing to define the term “affiliate” to mean “with respect to a
specified person, any person that directly, or indirectly, controls, is under common control with,

377

See supra notes 36-40 and accompanying text (relating to the duty of best execution).

191

or is controlled by, the specified person.” 378 This proposed definition is consistent with the
definition of an “affiliate” for the purposes of Form 1 disclosures, 379 and relates closely to the
definition of a similar term under Regulation ATS. 380
The Commission also proposes to amend the existing definition of the term “control”
under Regulation ATS to add the phrase “the broker-dealer of” before the two instances of the
phrase “an alternative trading system” and before the phrase “the alternative trading system” in
subsections (2) and (3) of the definition. 381 As proposed to be amended, “control” would mean
“the power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of the broker-dealer of an
alternative trading system, whether through the ownership of securities, by contract, or
otherwise. A person is presumed to control the broker-dealer of an alternative trading system, if
that person (1) is a director, general partner, or officer exercising executive responsibility (or
having similar status or performing similar functions); (2) directly or indirectly has the right to
vote 25% or more of a class of voting securities or has the power to sell or direct the sale of 25%
or more of a class of voting securities of the broker-dealer of the alternative trading system; or
(3) in the case of a partnership, has contributed, or has the right to receive, upon dissolution, 25%
or more of the capital of the broker-dealer of the alternative trading system.” 382 The purpose of
these amendments to the definition of control under Regulation ATS is to make clear that,

378

See Instruction G to proposed Form ATS-N.

379

See Instruction B to Form 1; 17 CFR 249.1.

380

See 17 CFR 242.300(c) (defining affiliate of a subscriber as any person that, directly or
indirectly, controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by, the subscriber,
including any employee).

381

17 CFR 242.300(f).

382

See id. and Instruction G to proposed Form ATS-N.

192

because an ATS must register as a broker-dealer, control of the broker-dealer of the ATS is
control of the ATS, and that the broker-dealer (also referred to as the broker-dealer operator) is
legally responsible for all operational aspects of the ATS and for ensuring that the ATS complies
with applicable federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder, including
Regulation ATS.
The proposed disclosures of affiliate activities under Part III of proposed Form ATS-N
are designed to provide market participants and the Commission with a comprehensive
understanding of the potential conflicts of interest that may arise from the broker-dealer
operator’s other business activities and its operation of the NMS Stock ATS. Under the
proposed definition of “affiliate” and amended definition of “control,” any affiliate of the brokerdealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS would be an affiliate of the NMS Stock ATS.383 The
Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed definition of an “affiliate” and amended
definition of “control” would cover entities that have a close relationship with the broker-dealer
operator and whose activities could raise potential conflicts of interest, or could otherwise be
relevant to market participants in evaluating an NMS Stock ATS. Extending the proposed
disclosures to affiliates of the broker-dealer operator could also reduce the potential for an entity
to structure its organization in a way that would not provide complete disclosure of information
in response to Part III of proposed Form ATS-N. The Commission notes that the proposed
disclosures related to affiliates extends to persons that control, are controlled by, or are under
383

The instructions in proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to provide
the identity of affiliates and business units of the broker-dealer operator, provide the
name under which each affiliate or business unit conducts business (e.g., the formal name
under which a proprietary trading desk of the broker-dealer operator conducts business)
and the applicable CRD number and MPID(s) under which the affiliate or business unit
conducts business.

193

common control with the broker-dealer operator, and, as a result, parallels the disclosures related
to “control affiliates” that are required in Form BD, to which broker-dealer operators are already
subject.384
Request for Comment
156.

Should the Commission adopt the proposal to define “affiliate” for purposes of
proposed Form ATS-N as, with respect to a specified person, any person that,
directly or indirectly, controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by,
the specified person? Why or why not? Please support your arguments. Do you
believe that the Commission should adopt a more limited or expansive definition
of an “affiliate”? Why or why not? Please support your arguments. What
advantages or disadvantages might result from a more limited or expansive
definition of an affiliate? Please support your arguments.

157.

Do you believe that the Commission should use the definition of an “affiliated
person” as defined in the Exchange Act for purposes of proposed Rule 304? 385
Why or why not? Please support your arguments. If so, do you believe that the
Commission should require disclosures about the activities of affiliated persons of

384

See Form BD at 2 (defining “control affiliate”).

385

Under the Exchange Act, an “affiliated person” of another person means: any person
directly or indirectly owning, controlling, or holding with power to vote, 5 percent or
more of the outstanding voting securities of such other person; any person 5 percent or
more of whose outstanding voting securities are directly or indirectly owned, controlled,
or held with power to vote, by such other person; any person directly or indirectly
controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, such other person; any officer,
director, partner, copartner, or employee of such other person; if such other person is an
investment company, any investment adviser thereof or any member of an advisory board
thereof; and if such other person is an unincorporated investment company not having a
board of directors, the depositor thereof. 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(19); 15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(3).

194

the NMS Stock ATS, and/or affiliated persons of an affiliated person of an NMS
Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
158.

Do you believe that the proposed amendments to the definition of “control” under
Regulation ATS are appropriate in this context? Do you believe the Commission
should adopt a more limited or expansive definition of “control”? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments.

159.

Do you believe the voting interest or partnership interest thresholds for “control”
of an entity (i.e., 25% or more) should be higher or lower for purposes of Rule
304? For example, should the voting interest or partnership interest threshold for
control of an entity to be presumed be 5%, 10%, 15%, 30%, or 50% for purposes
of Rule 304? If so, what is the appropriate percentage threshold and why would
such alternate percentage threshold be more appropriate? Please support your
arguments.

160.

Do you believe that the definition of “control” should deem an affiliate of the
broker-dealer of the NMS Stock ATS to be an affiliate of the NMS Stock ATS,
such that the ATS would be subject to all of the proposed disclosures relating
these entities? Should the definition of “control” be amended? If so, how should
it be amended? Please support your arguments.

161.

Do you believe that the information required to be filed on proposed Form ATS-N
about affiliates of the NMS Stock ATS would provide useful information to
market participants? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

162.

Do you believe that the Commission should require that the MPID and/or CRD
number for affiliates and business units of the broker-dealer operator be disclosed
195

on proposed Form ATS-N? Would such disclosure help market participants
identify the broker-dealer operator’s affiliates and business units? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments.
2.

Non-ATS Trading Centers of the Broker-Dealer Operator

Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
whether the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates operate or control any non-ATS trading
center(s) 386 that is an OTC market maker or executes orders in NMS stocks internally by trading
as principal or crossing orders as agent (“non-ATS trading centers”), 387 and if so, to (1) identify
386

A trading center is defined under Regulation NMS as a national securities exchange or
national securities association that operates an SRO trading facility, an alternative trading
system, an exchange market maker, an OTC market maker, or any other broker or dealer
that executes orders internally by trading as principal or crossing orders as agent. 17
CFR 242.600(b)(78). The Commission preliminarily believes that the last two
components of the definition of a trading center (i.e., an OTC market maker and any
other broker or dealer that executes orders internally by trading as principal or crossing
orders as agent) are the trading centers for which conflicts of interests of the brokerdealer operator and its affiliates are relevant, as such trading centers operate as competing
venues for the execution of NMS stock over-the-counter.

387

References to non-ATS trading centers, as used herein, encompass all executions that
occur off of an exchange and outside of an ATS, including when a broker-dealer is acting
as an OTC market-maker, block positioner (i.e., any broker-dealer in the business of
executing, as principal or agent, block size trades for its customers), or operation of an
internal broker-dealer system. See 17 CFR 242.600(b)(52) (defining “OTC market
maker” as any dealer that holds itself out as being willing to buy and sell to its customers,
or others, in the United States, an NMS stock for its own account on a regular or
continuous basis otherwise than on a national securities exchange in amounts of less than
block size); 17 CFR 242.600(b)(9) (defining “block size” as an order of at least 10,000
shares or for a quantity of stock having a market value of at least $200,000); and 17 CFR
240.17a-3(a)(16)(ii)(A) (defining “internal broker-dealer system” as any facility, other
than a national securities exchange, an exchange exempt from registration based on
limited volume, or an alternative trading system as defined in Regulation ATS that
provides a mechanism, automated in full or in part, for collecting, receiving,
disseminating, or displaying system orders and facilitating agreement to the basic terms
of a purchase or sale of a security between a customer and the sponsor, or between two
customers of the sponsor, through use of the internal broker-dealer system or through the

196

the non-ATS trading center(s); and (2) describe any interaction or coordination between the
identified non-ATS trading center(s) and the NMS Stock ATS including: (i) circumstances
under which subscriber orders or other trading interest (such as quotes, indications of interest
(“IOI”), conditional orders or messages (hereinafter collectively referred to as “trading interest”))
sent to the NMS Stock ATS are displayed or otherwise made known to the identified non-ATS
trading center(s) identified in Item 1(a) before entering the NMS Stock ATS; (ii) circumstances
under which subscriber orders or other trading interest received by the broker-dealer operator or
its affiliates may execute, in whole or in part, in the identified non-ATS trading center identified
in Item 1(a) before entering the NMS Stock ATS; and (iii) circumstances under which subscriber
orders or other trading interest are removed from the NMS Stock ATS and sent to the identified
non-ATS trading center(s). 388
The Commission is aware that many broker-dealer operators of ATSs that currently trade
NMS stocks facilitate the execution of NMS stock outside of their ATSs. 389 As discussed above,
a broker-dealer operator is permitted to engage in broker or dealer activities independent of its
operation of an ATS, such as operating proprietary trading desks; the proposed rules do not
eliminate or otherwise restrict such activities. The Commission, however, is proposing to require
the public disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N of such activities as they relate to the NMS
Stock ATS. As noted above, the Commission preliminarily believes that circumstances could

broker or dealer sponsor of such system). See also 2010 Equity Market Structure
Release, supra note 124, at 3599-3600.
388

See Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N.

389

See, e.g., Laura Tuttle, Over-the-Counter Trading: Description of Non-ATS OTC
Trading in National Market System Stocks (March 2014), http://www.sec.gov/dera/staffpapers/white-papers/otc-trading-white-paper-03-2014.pdf.

197

arise whereby a broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS may place the interests of its or its
affiliates’ non-ATS trading center ahead of the interests of the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
and its subscribers. The Commission recognizes the sensitive nature of the confidential trading
information of subscribers to an ATS and the potential for its misuse. The Commission
preliminarily believes that non-ATS trading centers of a broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock
ATS or its affiliates may have incentives, and the opportunity to access, NMS Stock ATS
subscriber orders received by the broker-dealer operator, which may result in information
leakage.
Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily believes that subscribers to NMS Stock
ATSs currently have limited information about the various non-ATS trading centers operated by
an NMS Stock ATS broker-dealer operator, or its affiliates, and the extent to which the
operations of these non-ATS trading centers may interact with subscriber orders or other trading
interest sent to the NMS Stock ATS. Orders or other trading interest sent by subscribers to the
NMS Stock ATS may pass through the broker-dealer operator’s systems or functionality before
being entered into the NMS Stock ATS. Such systems and functionalities, which could include a
common gateway function, algorithm, or smart order router, may be used to support the brokerdealer operator’s other business units, including any non-ATS trading centers. The broker-dealer
operator typically controls the logic contained in these systems or functionality that determines
where an order that the broker-dealer receives will be handled or sent. The Commission
preliminarily believes that it would be helpful for NMS Stock ATS subscribers to know the
extent to which subscriber orders received by the broker-dealer operator may interact, or be
handled in any coordinated manner, with a non-ATS trading center of that broker-dealer operator

198

or its affiliates. 390 In addition, Form ATS-N would require the disclosure of circumstances under
which subscriber orders or other trading interest received by the broker-dealer operator may
execute, in whole or in part, in a non-ATS trading center(s) operated by the broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates before entering the NMS Stock ATS; the circumstances under which
subscriber orders or other trading interest would be displayed or otherwise made known to the
systems or personnel operating the non-ATS trading center(s); and the circumstances under
which subscriber orders or other trading interest are removed from the NMS Stock ATS and sent
to the non-ATS trading center(s) for execution. To the extent that the broker-dealer operator or
its affiliates operate a non-ATS trading center(s), but NMS Stock ATS subscribers’ orders could
not execute, route, or otherwise be shared with that non-ATS trading center(s), the NMS Stock
ATS could note this fact in Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N.
The disclosures in Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N are designed to reduce
information asymmetries between subscribers and the broker-dealer operator regarding the
operation of the NMS Stock ATS and competing venues for the execution of NMS stock
390

As noted above, the Commission is aware that most of the broker-dealer operators of
ATSs that currently trade NMS stocks also facilitate the execution of NMS stocks in nonATS trading centers outside of the NMS Stock ATS. See supra note 364 and
accompanying text. In October of 2013, the Commission and its staff estimated that
about 16.99% of total dollar volume (18.75% of share volume) of NMS stocks is
executed over-the-counter (“OTC”) without the involvement of an ATS. In contrast, the
Commission and its staff estimated that ATSs comprise 11.31% of total dollar volume
(12.04% of share volume). See Tuttle: ATS Trading in NMS Stocks, supra note 126, at
2. Given that a greater percentage of OTC executions in NMS stock occur outside of
ATSs rather than inside of ATSs, the Commission preliminarily believes that some
disclosure of the presence of these non-ATS trading centers is appropriate. Accordingly,
to the extent that an NMS Stock ATS subscriber’s orders may execute, be displayed, or
otherwise made known in a non-ATS trading center operated by or affiliated with the
broker-dealer operator, the Commission preliminarily believes that disclosure of such
possibility would be relevant to market participants in deciding whether to subscribe or
route orders to a particular NMS Stock ATS.

199

transactions (i.e., non-ATS trading centers) that the broker-dealer operator operates and the
circumstances in which the broker-dealer operator may handle or choose to execute subscriber
orders outside of the NMS Stock ATS that might otherwise have been sent to the NMS Stock
ATS.
Request for Comment
163.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part III, Item 1 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

164.

Do you believe Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
regarding non-ATS trading centers operated or controlled by the broker-dealer
operator or any of its affiliates that is most relevant to understanding the
operations of the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

165.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding non-ATS trading centers operated or controlled by
the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates? If so, describe such information
and explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

166.

Do you believe that Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear
with respect to the disclosures that would be required? If not, how should Part III,
Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N be revised to provide additional clarity? Please
explain in detail.

200

167.

Do you believe that the non-ATS trading centers operated by the broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates could raise potential conflicts of interest? Why or why
not? If so, do you believe that such potential conflicts of interest should be
disclosed? Please support your arguments.

168.

Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N would require disclosure about the nonATS trading center activities of affiliates of the broker-dealer operator. Do you
believe that disclosure about the activities of the broker-dealer operator’s affiliates
in this context is necessary? Why or why not? Should disclosure of non-ATS
trading center activities extend to more remote affiliates under a revised definition
of “affiliate”? 391 Should disclosure of non-ATS trading center activities apply to
a more limited set of affiliates? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

169.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N? Do you believe the proposed
disclosures in Part III, Item 1 have the potential to impact innovation? Why or
why not? Do you believe that the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 1 of
proposed Form ATS-N would require broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock
ATSs to reveal too much (or not enough) information about their structure and
operations? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

170.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the disclosure of non-ATS trading centers operated
by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates? If so, describe such information

391

See, e.g., supra note 385 and accompanying text.

201

and explain whether or not such information should be required to be provided
under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.
171.

Do you believe there is any information regarding the non-ATS trading centers of
the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that should not be required to be
disclosed on proposed Form ATS-N due to concerns regarding confidentiality,
business reasons, trade secrets, burden, or any other concerns? If so, what
information and why? Please support your arguments.

172.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 1?

3.

Multiple NMS Stock ATS Operations of the Broker-Dealer Operator

Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to state
whether the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, operates one or more NMS Stock
ATSs other than the NMS Stock ATS named on the Form ATS-N, and, if so, to (1) identify the
NMS Stock ATS(s) and provide its MPID(s); and (2) describe any interaction or coordination
between the identified NMS Stock ATS(s) and the NMS Stock ATS named on the Form ATS-N
including: (i) the circumstances under which subscriber orders or other trading interest received
by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates to be sent to the NMS Stock ATS named on the
Form ATS-N may be sent to any identified NMS Stock ATS(s); (ii) circumstances under which
subscriber orders or other trading interest to be sent to the NMS Stock ATS named on the Form
ATS-N are displayed or otherwise made known in any other identified NMS Stock ATS(s); and
202

(iii) the circumstances under which subscriber orders or other trading interest received by the
NMS Stock ATS named on the Form ATS-N may be removed and sent to any other identified
NMS Stock ATS(s).392
The Commission is aware that some broker-dealer operators operate multiple ATSs that
trade NMS stocks and that subscriber orders or other trading interest received by such brokerdealer operators could be routed between those NMS Stock ATSs. The Commission
preliminarily believes that—similar to the potential conflicts of interest that may arise or
information leakage that may occur when a broker-dealer operator, or its affiliate, operates or
controls a non-ATS trading center—circumstances might arise whereby a broker-dealer that
operates multiple NMS Stock ATSs may place its interests ahead of the interests of subscribers
of one or more of its NMS Stock ATSs. 393 To the extent that the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates operate multiple NMS Stock ATSs, but the subscribers’ orders of the NMS Stock ATS
named in the Form ATS-N filing could not execute, route, be displayed, or otherwise made
known to the NMS Stock ATS(s) identified in Item 2(a) of proposed Form ATS-N, the NMS
Stock ATS could note this fact in Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N.
Therefore, under Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N, a broker-dealer operator that
operates multiple NMS Stock ATSs would be required to disclose how these trading venues
interact with one another, if at all. To the extent that a broker-dealer operator could allocate
subscriber orders it receives among the various NMS Stock ATSs that it or its affiliates operate,
the broker-dealer operator would be required to describe how it determines such allocation in

392

See Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N.

393

See supra note 368.

203

response to Item 2. For example, a broker-dealer operator may send all subscriber orders that it
receives first to one of its NMS Stock ATSs, and if there is no execution after a certain period of
time, the orders may then be routed directly to a second NMS Stock ATS operated by the brokerdealer operator or its affiliates, or may be returned to the broker-dealer operator (or its SOR or
similar functionality), and may then be routed to a non-affiliated NMS Stock ATS for execution.
Similarly, an NMS Stock ATS would be required to describe the circumstances under which
subscriber orders on the NMS Stock ATS might be removed from the NMS Stock ATS and
routed to another NMS Stock ATS that is operated by that broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates. 394
The Commission preliminarily believes that subscribers to NMS Stock ATSs currently
have limited information about the extent to which the operations of other ATSs operated by the
same broker-dealer operator, or its affiliates, may interact with their orders sent to the NMS
Stock ATS. Specifically, because subscriber orders received by a broker-dealer operator could
be sent to multiple NMS Stock ATSs operated by that broker-dealer operator, the Commission
preliminarily believes that subscribers should be provided with a better understanding of how
their orders may interact, if at all, with multiple NMS Stock ATSs operated by the same brokerdealer operator or its affiliates. The proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form
ATS-N are designed to help subscribers evaluate potential conflicts of interest for the brokerdealer operator or the potential for information leakage in connection with multiple NMS Stock
394

As is the case with the proposed disclosures under Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form
ATS-N in regard to non-ATS trading centers, Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N
would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose whether any affiliates of the broker-dealer
operator operates an NMS Stock ATS. This disclosure is designed to elicit certain
information about the relationship of related NMS Stock ATSs, regardless of the
organizational structure of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates.

204

ATSs that the broker-dealer operator, or its affiliates, operates. 395 Accordingly, the Commission
preliminary believes that the disclosures required under Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATSN would provide market participants with better information about how orders would be handled
by a broker-dealer operator that operates multiple NMS Stock ATSs and the potential conflicts of
interest and potential for information leakage that might arise as a result of such a business
structure.
Request for Comment
173.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part III, Item 2 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

174.

Do you believe Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
regarding any other NMS Stock ATSs (other than the one named on the Form
ATS-N) operated or controlled by the broker-dealer operator or any of its
affiliates? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

175.

Do you believe that Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear
with respect to the disclosures that would be required? If not, how should Part III,
Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N be revised to provide additional clarity? Please
explain.

395

The Commission notes that a broker-dealer operator may have valid business reasons for
operating multiple NMS Stock ATSs, and the Commission is not proposing to limit the
ability for a broker-dealer operator to operate multiple NMS Stock ATSs. For example,
the broker-dealer operator may establish several NMS Stock ATSs so that each NMS
Stock ATS offers subscribers specific trading services (block order executions) or other
particular trading functionalities (e.g., an auction mechanism or a limit order book).

205

176.

Do you believe that the operation of multiple NMS Stock ATSs by the brokerdealer operator or its affiliates could raise potential conflicts of interest? Why or
why not? If so, do you believe that such potential conflicts of interest should be
disclosed? Please support your arguments.

177.

Do you believe that the information that would be solicited by Part III, Item 2 of
proposed Form ATS-N would be useful to market participants in deciding
whether the participate on an NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.

178.

Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N would require disclosure of whether the
affiliates of the broker-dealer operator operate an NMS Stock ATS (other than the
NMS Stock ATS filing the Form ATS-N). Do you believe that disclosure about
affiliates of the broker-dealer operator in this context is necessary? Why or why
not? Should disclosure of affiliates that operate another NMS Stock ATS be
extended to more remote affiliates under a revised definition of “affiliate”? 396
Should disclosure apply to a more limited set of affiliates? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

179.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N? Do you believe the disclosures in Part
III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N would have the potential to impact
innovation? Why or why not? Would the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 2
of proposed Form ATS-N require broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs to

396

See, e.g., supra note 385 and accompanying text.

206

reveal too much (or not enough) information about their structure and operations?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
180.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the operation of multiple NMS Stock ATSs by a
broker-dealer operator or its affiliate? If so, describe such information and
explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

181.

Do you believe that the Commission should require NMS Stock ATSs to disclose
the names of any non-NMS stock ATSs that are operated by its broker-dealer
operator or one of its broker-dealer operator’s affiliates? Why or why not? If so,
what information should the NMS Stock ATS be required to disclose about such
non-NMS stock ATSs? Please support your arguments.

182.

Do you believe there is any information regarding the multiple NMS Stock ATS
operations of a broker-dealer operator that the NMS Stock ATS should not be
required to disclose on proposed Form ATS-N due to concerns regarding
confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets, burden, or any other concerns? If
so, what information and why? Please explain.

183.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 2?

4.

Products or Services Offered to Subscribers by the Broker-Dealer Operator
207

Part III, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
whether the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, offer subscribers of the NMS Stock
ATS any products or services used in connection with trading on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g.,
algorithmic trading products, market data feeds). If so, the NMS Stock ATS would be required
to describe the products and services and identify the types of subscribers (e.g., retail,
institutional, professional) to which such services or products are offered, and if the terms and
conditions of the services or products are not the same for all subscribers, describe any
differences. 397
Based on the Commission’s experience, broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs
may, directly or indirectly through an affiliate, offer products or services to subscribers in
addition to the trading services of the NMS Stock ATS. For example, a broker-dealer operator
may offer subscribers the use of an order management system to allow them to connect to or
send orders or other trading interest to the NMS Stock ATS. Some broker-dealer operators may
also offer subscribers the use of algorithmic trading strategies, which are computer assisted
trading tools that, for instance, may be used by or on behalf of institutional investors to execute
orders that are typically too large to be executed all at once without excessive price impact, and
divide the orders into many small orders that are fed into the marketplace over time. 398 In some
cases, a broker-dealer operator offering products or services in connection with a subscriber’s
use of the NMS Stock ATS may result in the subscribers receiving more favorable terms from

397

See Part III, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N.

398

See Staff of the Division of Trading and Markets, Commission, “Equity Market Structure
Literature Review, Part II: High Frequency Trading,” at 5 (March 18, 2014),
http://www.sec.gov/marketstructure/research/hft_lit_review_march_2014.pdf.

208

the broker-dealer operator with respect to their use of the NMS Stock ATS. For example, if a
subscriber purchases a service offered by the broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS, the
broker-dealer operator might also provide that subscriber more favorable terms for their use of
the NMS Stock ATS than other subscribers who do not purchase the service. Such favorable
terms could include fee discounts or access to a faster connection line to the NMS Stock ATS.
Additionally, a broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS may only offer certain products
and services to certain subscribers or may offer products and services on different terms to
different categories of subscribers. The Commission preliminarily believes that market
participants would want to know, when assessing an NMS Stock ATS as a potential trading
venue, the range of services or products that the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates may offer
subscribers of the NMS Stock ATS because such services or products may have an impact on the
subscribers’ access to, or trading on, the NMS Stock ATS.
Request for Comment
184.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part III, Item 3 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

185.

Do you believe Part III, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
regarding other products or services offered to subscribers used in connection
with trading on the NMS Stock ATS by the broker-dealer operator or any of its
affiliates? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

186.

Do you believe that Part III, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear
with respect to the disclosures that would be required? If not, how should Part III,
209

Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N be revised to provide additional clarity? Please
explain in detail.
187.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding other products and services offered to subscribers by
broker-dealer operators or their affiliates? If so, describe such information and
explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

188.

Do you believe that the Commission should expand the proposed disclosures in
Part III, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N to products or services offered by the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that are offered to subscribers, but not
necessarily offered in connection with transacting on the NMS Stock ATS? Why
or why not? Please explain. Do you believe there is other information that
market participants might find useful regarding the products or services offered to
subscribers by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates? If so, what information
should be added to the disclosure requirements? Please explain.

189.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part III, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N? Do you believe the disclosures in Part
III, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N would have the potential to impact
innovation? Why or why not? Would the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 3
of proposed Form ATS-N require broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs to
reveal too much (or not enough) information about their structure and operations?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

210

190.

Do you believe there is any information regarding the products or services offered
to subscribers by the broker-dealer operator that the NMS Stock ATS should not
be required to disclose on proposed Form ATS-N due to concerns regarding
confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets, burden, or any other concerns? If
so, what information and why? Please support your arguments.

191.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part III, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 3?

5.

Broker-Dealer Operator Arrangements with Unaffiliated Trading Centers

Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
whether the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates have any formal or informal
arrangement with an unaffiliated person(s), or affiliate(s) of such person, that operates a trading
center 399 regarding access to the NMS Stock ATS, including preferential routing arrangements.
If so, the NMS Stock ATSs would be required to identify the person(s) and the trading center(s)
and to describe the terms of the arrangement(s). 400
Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N is designed to inform subscribers and the
Commission about arrangements that may impact a subscriber’s experience on the NMS Stock
ATS and allow market participants to evaluate potential conflicts of interest of the broker-dealer

399

See supra note 386 (defining trading center).

400

See Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N.

211

operator. For example, Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock
ATS to disclose whether its broker-dealer operator has any arrangement with another unaffiliated
NMS Stock ATS pursuant to which the NMS Stock ATS would route orders or other trading
interest to the unaffiliated NMS Stock ATS for possible execution prior to routing to any other
destination. Similarly, Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N would require disclosure of an
arrangement pursuant to which any subscriber orders routed out of the unaffiliated NMS Stock
ATS would be routed first to the NMS Stock ATS before any other trading center, and would
also require disclosure of the terms of the arrangement, for example, whether the NMS Stock
ATS was providing monetary compensation or some other brokerage service to the unaffiliated
NMS Stock ATS in exchange for the order flow. 401
The Commission preliminarily believes that market participants would consider
information about any arrangements between a broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS
and other trading centers relevant to their evaluation of an NMS Stock ATS as a potential trading
venue. The disclosure of such arrangements could reveal potential conflicts of interest of the
broker-dealer operator or could identify potential sources of information leakage. For example, a
potential conflict of interest could arise where an NMS Stock ATS has a preferred routing
arrangement with an unaffiliated non-ATS trading center that provides that all orders sent to the
NMS Stock ATS would first be routed to the unaffiliated non-ATS trading center before entering
the NMS Stock ATS in exchange for monetary compensation. Such an arrangement could also
401

The Commission notes that a broker-dealer operator may have valid business reasons for
it or its affiliates to have formal or informal arrangements with an unaffiliated person(s),
or affiliate(s) of such person, that operates a trading center regarding access to the NMS
Stock ATS. The Commission is not proposing to limit the ability for a broker-dealer
operator to have such arrangements.

212

pose a risk of information leakage in that the non-ATS trading center would know that those
orders that it does not execute would be routed to the NMS Stock ATS.402 Part III, Item 4 of
proposed Form ATS-N would also require disclosure of mutual access arrangements between an
NMS Stock ATS and other trading centers whereby, for example, a broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates may offer access to its NMS Stock ATS in exchange for access to the NMS Stock ATS
of another broker-dealer operator.
The Commission notes that an NMS Stock ATS would not be prohibited from
establishing arrangements with other trading centers, provided that such arrangements comply
with other applicable laws and rules, including applicable federal securities laws and Regulation
ATS. However, the Commission preliminarily believes that market participants could benefit
from disclosures about such arrangements and would use such information when determining
whether to subscribe, or route orders, to a particular NMS Stock ATS. Additionally, the
Commission preliminarily believes that disclosure of such arrangements would help the
Commission perform its oversight functions by enabling it to better evaluate an NMS Stock
ATS’s compliance with the requirements of Regulation ATS, such as Rule 301(b)(10).
Request for Comment
192.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part III, Item 4 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

402

Alternatively, if an arrangement between the NMS Stock ATS and unaffiliated trading
center provided that any subscriber orders routed out of the NMS Stock ATS would be
first routed to the unaffiliated non-ATS trading center, the NMS Stock ATS may have an
incentive to remove subscribers’ orders from the NMS Stock ATS and allow the
unaffiliated non-ATS trading center the opportunity to execute those orders.

213

193.

Do you believe Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
regarding any formal or informal arrangement by the broker-dealer operator or
any of its affiliates with an unaffiliated person(s), or affiliate(s) of such person,
that operates a trading center 403 regarding access to the NMS Stock ATS,
including preferential routing arrangements? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.

194.

Do you believe that Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear
with respect to the disclosures that would be required relating to access
arrangements and preferred routing arrangements with other unaffiliated trading
centers? If not, how should Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N be revised
to provide additional clarity? Please explain.

195.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N? Do you believe the disclosures in Part
III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N would have the potential to impact
innovation? Why or why not? Would the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 4
of proposed Form ATS-N require broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs to
reveal too much (or not enough) information about their structure and operations?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

196.

Do you believe that the Commission should include access arrangements of
affiliates of the broker-dealer operator in Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-

403

See supra note 386 (defining trading center).

214

N? Why or why not? Please support your arguments. Conversely, should
disclosures of arrangements with other trading centers by affiliates be extended to
more remote affiliates under a revised definition of “affiliate”? 404 Should
disclosure apply to a more limited set of affiliates? Why or why not? Please
support your arguments.
197.

Do you believe that the Commission should expand the proposed disclosure
requirements to other arrangements beyond access and preferred routing that the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates might have with other trading centers? If
so, what other arrangements do you believe should be disclosed? Please explain
in detail.

198.

Do you believe that the Commission should limit or expand in any way the
proposed disclosure requirements to require disclosure of arrangements regarding
access by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates to both other trading centers
and affiliates of those other trading centers? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.

199.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates’
arrangements with other trading centers? If so, describe such information and
explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

404

See, e.g., supra note 385 and accompanying text.

215

200.

Do you believe there is any information regarding the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates’ arrangements with other trading centers that the NMS Stock ATS
should not be required to disclose on proposed Form ATS-N due to concerns
regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets, burden, or any other
concerns? If so, what information and why? Please support your arguments.

201.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 4?

6.

Trading on the NMS Stock ATS by the Broker-Dealer Operator and its
Affiliates

Part III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N would require certain disclosures related to the
trading activity of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates on the NMS Stock ATS.
Specifically, Part III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to
disclose whether the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, enters orders or other trading
interest on the NMS Stock ATS. If so, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to: (1) identify
each affiliate and business unit of the broker-dealer operator that may enter orders or other
trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS; (2) describe the circumstances and capacity (e.g.,
proprietary, agency) in which each identified affiliate and business unit enters orders or other
trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS; (3) describe the means by which each identified affiliate
and business unit enters orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., directly
through a FIX connection to the NMS Stock ATS, or indirectly, by way of the broker-dealer

216

operator’s SOR (or similar functionality), algorithm, intermediate application, or sales desk); and
(4) describe any means by which a subscriber can be excluded from interacting or trading with
orders or other trading interest of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates on the NMS Stock
ATS. 405
As noted above, Part III, Item 5(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS
Stock ATS to identify each affiliate and business unit (e.g., a sales desk or proprietary trading
unit) and affiliate of the broker-dealer operator that can enter orders or other trading interest on
the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that disclosure of whether a
broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS or its affiliates may trade on that NMS Stock ATS
would be important to subscribers with respect to the potential conflicts of interest that may arise
from the unique position the broker-dealer operator occupies in relation to the NMS Stock ATS.
If the person that operates and controls a trading center is also able to trade on that trading
center, there may be an incentive to design the operations of the trading center to favor the
trading activity of the operator of the trading center or affiliates of the operator. 406 The operator
of a trading center that also trades on the trading center it operates would likely have
informational advantages over others trading on the trading center such as a better understanding
of the manner in which the system operates or who is trading on the trading center. In the most
egregious case, the operator of the trading center might use the confidential trading information
of other traders to advantage its own trading on that trading center, which, in context of an ATS,

405

The Commission notes that a broker-dealer operator may have valid business reasons for
it or its affiliates to trade on the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission is not proposing to
limit the ability for a broker-dealer operator to trade on any such NMS Stock ATS.

406

See supra note 370 and accompanying text.

217

would violate Rule 301(b)(10). Accordingly, the Commission believes that subscribers would
benefit from knowing whether and how a broker-dealer operator or its affiliates trade on the
NMS Stock ATS to which they may route orders or become a subscriber. Such information
would allow market participants to evaluate the extent of the potential conflicts of interest posed
by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates’ participation on the NMS Stock ATS and to inquire
further about such trading activity if they choose.
Part III, Item 5(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
disclose the circumstances and capacity in which the broker-dealer operator’s business units or
affiliates may trade on the NMS Stock ATS, such as whether they are trading on a proprietary
basis (i.e., for their own accounts) or agency basis or both. This disclosure is meant to provide
insight as to the nature of the trading of the broker-dealer operator and/or its affiliates. The
Commission preliminarily believes that market participants would find this information useful in
evaluating NMS Stock ATSs because they may perceive agency trading by the broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates as posing less of a conflict of interest as compared to proprietary trading.
For example, market participants may perceive a lesser potential for a conflict of interest if the
broker-dealer operator discloses that the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates trade on its own
NMS Stock ATS only in an agency capacity with its customers’ orders as opposed to trading on
the NMS Stock ATS in a principal capacity on a proprietary basis—where the broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates may have increased incentives to use their informational advantage in
operating the NMS Stock ATS to advance their trading opportunities. 407 Alternatively, market
participants could conclude that the broker-dealer operator’s agency trading on its own NMS
407

See supra note 368.

218

Stock ATS could nevertheless pose an unacceptable conflict of interest as the broker-dealer
operator may be able to advantage its customers’ orders to the disadvantage of subscribers to the
NMS Stock ATS. The Commission proposes to provide market participants with information
regarding the nature of the trading activity of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates on the
NMS Stock ATS so that subscribers (and potential subscribers) can evaluate potential conflicts
of interest that may arise from that trading activity.
Part III, Item 5(c) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe the means by which the business units of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates
enter orders or other trading interest into the NMS Stock ATS. Item 5(d) would require a
description of any means by which a subscriber can be excluded from interacting or trading with
orders or other trading interest of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates. Some NMS Stock
ATSs that currently transact in NMS stocks may provide both direct and indirect means for
subscribers to enter orders or other trading interest to the ATS. Based on its experience, the
Commission understands that subscribers to some NMS Stock ATSs may enter orders or other
trading interest directly to the ATS using, for example, a direct FIX connection, 408 while other
subscribers may enter orders or other trading interest indirectly to the ATS using, for example,
an algorithm, the broker-dealer operator’s smart order router, 409 or the broker-dealer operator’s
sales desks. As such, there are a variety of means by which business units of the broker-dealer

408

To the extent that a subscriber to the NMS Stock ATS directly sends an order to the NMS
Stock ATS by way of FIX protocol, the NMS Stock ATS should identify and describe
any intermediate functionality that the subscriber order may pass through on its way to
the NMS Stock ATS as part of the FIX process.

409

See infra Section VII.B.7 (discussing the use of smart order routers by broker-dealer
operators of NMS Stock ATSs).

219

operator or its affiliates of the broker-dealer operator may connect to, and enter orders on, an
NMS Stock ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that market participants evaluating
NMS Stock ATSs may find this information relevant in assessing any potential advantages that
the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates may have over other subscribers to the NMS Stock
ATS. For example, an NMS Stock ATS may permit orders or other trading interest of all of its
affiliates that trade on the NMS Stock ATS to enter through a means that can be used only by the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates and not by non-affiliated subscribers to the NMS Stock
ATS (e.g., bypassing the broker-dealer operator’s SOR). The Commission preliminarily believes
that market participants would want to know these circumstances, as the difference in access or
order entry could result in certain advantages, such as the speed at which orders could be entered
or cancelled. Moreover, the Commission preliminarily believes that based on how a brokerdealer operator’s business units or affiliates access and trade on an NMS Stock ATS—or on
other considerations—certain subscribers may not wish to interact with the order flow of the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that
it is important for market participants to have the information to elect whether and how they may
avoid trading against orders or other trading interest of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates
on an NMS Stock ATS to achieve their investing or trading objectives.
Overall, the Commission preliminarily believes that the disclosures required under Part
III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N would be useful to many market participants. The
Commission notes that market participants may vary widely in their decision making process in
selecting a particular trading center to effect their trades or route their orders, and therefore, the
Commission preliminarily believes that some market participants may not be concerned with the
potential conflicts of interest posed by the trading activity of the broker dealer operator or its
220

affiliates on the NMS Stock ATS. However, absent disclosure of this trading activity of the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates, subscribers and potential subscribers that take such
information into account when executing their trading or investment strategies likely would
neither be aware of such potential conflicts nor able to assess whether the conflicts might impact
those strategies. Consequently, the Commission preliminary believes that it would be useful to
market participants for an NMS Stock ATS to be required to disclose the information required in
Part III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N.
Request for Comment
202.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part III, Item 5 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

203.

Do you believe Part III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
related to the trading activity of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates on the
NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

204.

Do you believe that Part III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear
with respect to the disclosures that would be required relating to the broker-dealer
operator and its affiliates trading on the NMS Stock ATS? If not, how should Part
III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N be revised to provide additional clarity?
Please explain.

205.

Do you believe proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N
should be applied to the trading activity on the NMS Stock ATS of affiliates of
the broker-dealer operator? Why or why not? Should disclosures of affiliates
221

trading on the NMS Stock ATS be extended to more remote affiliates under a
revised definition of “affiliate”? 410 Should disclosures apply to a more limited set
of affiliates? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
206.

Do you believe that the Commission should enhance measures to prevent
potential conflicts of interest posed by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates
trading on its own NMS Stock ATS, such as prohibiting proprietary trading by the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates on the NMS Stock ATS? If no, why? If
yes, what measures should the Commission consider? Please explain in detail.

207.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N? Do you believe the disclosures in Part
III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N would have the potential to impact
innovation or discourage broker-dealer operators or their affiliates from trading on
their own NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Would the proposed disclosures
in Part III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N require broker-dealer operators of
NMS Stock ATSs to reveal too much (or not enough) information about their
structure and operations? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

208.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the trading activity on the NMS Stock ATS by the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates? If so, describe such information and
explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

410

See, e.g., supra note 385 and accompanying text.

222

209.

Do you believe there is any information regarding the trading activity on the NMS
Stock ATS by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that the NMS Stock ATS
should not be required to disclose on Form ATS-N due to concerns regarding
confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets, burden, or any other concerns? If
so, what information and why? Please support your arguments.

210.

Should the Commission require separate disclosures for different types of trading
conducted by the broker-dealer operator on the NMS Stock ATS, such as trading
by the broker-dealer operator for the purpose of correcting error trades executed
on the ATS, as compared to other types of proprietary trading? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments. If so, what types of proprietary trading should be
addressed separately and why? What disclosures should the Commission require
about these types of proprietary trading and why? Please explain in detail.

211.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 5?

7.

Broker-Dealer Operator Smart Order Routers (or Similar Functionalities)
and Algorithms

Part III, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to disclose
whether the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, use a SOR(s) (or similar
functionality), an algorithm(s), or both to send or receive subscriber orders or other trading
interest to or from the NMS Stock ATS, and if so, to: (1) identify the SOR(s) (or similar

223

functionality) or algorithm(s) and identify the person(s) that operates the SOR(s) (or similar
functionality) or algorithm(s), if other than the broker-dealer operator;411 and (2) describe the
interaction or coordination between the identified SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or
algorithm(s) and the NMS Stock ATS, including any information or messages about orders or
other trading interest (e.g., IOIs) that the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s) send
or receive to or from the NMS Stock ATS and the circumstances under which such information
may be shared with any person.
Today, most broker-dealers that operate an NMS Stock ATS use some form of SOR (or
similar functionality) in connection with the NMS Stock ATS. A SOR (or similar functionality)
can generally be understood as an automated system used to route orders or other trading interest
among trading centers, including proprietary non-ATS trading centers operated by the brokerdealer operator, to carry out particular trading instructions or strategies of a broker-dealer. Smart
order routers (or similar functionalities) have become an integral part of the business of many
multi-service broker-dealers, given the increase in the speed of trading in today’s equity markets
and the large number of trading centers, including national securities exchanges, ATSs, and nonATS trading centers, that have emerged since the adoption of Regulation ATS. In addition to the
SOR (or similar functionality), orders or other trading interest may be entered on an NMS Stock
ATS through the use of a trading algorithm, which is a computer assisted trading tool that, for
instance, may be used by or on behalf of institutional investors to execute orders that are

411

See supra note 362.

224

typically too large to be executed all at once without excessive price impact, and divide the
orders into many small orders that are fed into the marketplace over time. 412
Broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs or their affiliates may use SORs (or similar
functionality) or algorithms in a variety of ways. 413 For example, the broker-dealer operator may
use the SOR (or similar functionality) to route orders on behalf of its customers and proprietary
trading desks to different trading venues, or the broker-dealer operator may use the SOR as the
primary means of routing subscriber orders or other trading interest to or from the NMS Stock
ATS. The Commission understands, based on experience, that for some ATSs that currently
transact in NMS stocks, the SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm of the broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates is the only means of access (i.e., all orders or other trading interest
entered on, or removed from, the ATS, must pass through the SOR (or similar functionality) or
algorithm). A broker-dealer operator may also use a SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm
to handle all order flow received by the broker-dealer operator (or its affiliates), including both
orders that a subscriber has specifically directed to the NMS Stock ATS and orders that may not
be sent to the NMS Stock ATS, as well as the broker-dealer’s own proprietary orders and those
of its affiliates. For many orders, the SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm determines

412

See Staff of the Division of Trading and Markets, Commission, “Equity Market Structure
Literature Review, Part II: High Frequency Trading,” at 5 (March 18, 2014),
http://www.sec.gov/marketstructure/research/hft_lit_review_march_2014.pdf.

413

The Commission notes that, similar to legacy NMS Stock ATSs, broker-dealer operators
are likely to vary in their organizational structures. Accordingly, the Commission
proposes to include affiliates of the broker-dealer operator that may operate a SOR(s) (or
similar functionality) or algorithm(s) in Part III, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N to
ensure that SORs (or similar functionalities) or algorithms used in connection with the
NMS Stock ATSs are disclosed regardless of whether the SOR(s) (or similar
functionality) or algorithm(s) is operated by an affiliate of the broker-dealer operator.

225

whether to route the order to the NMS Stock ATS, another NMS Stock ATS or non-ATS trading
center operated by the broker-dealer operator, another broker-dealer, an unaffiliated NMS Stock
ATS, or a national securities exchange. The SOR (or similar functionality) may obtain
knowledge of subscriber orders or other trading interest that have been routed to the NMS Stock
ATS (and may now be resting on the NMS Stock ATS) and subscriber orders that have been
routed out of the NMS Stock ATS. Similarly, the system operating an algorithm used by the
broker-dealer operator to enter subscriber orders based on the algorithm’s trading strategy may
obtain information about subscriber orders sent to the NMS Stock ATS. The broker-dealer
operator (or its affiliates) programs and operates the SOR (or similar functionality) and/or
algorithm(s), unless the broker-dealer operator contracts such functions to a third-party vendor,
in which case the broker-dealer operator or third-party vendor may have access to information
that passes through the SOR(s) (or similar functionality), algorithm(s) or both.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the high likelihood that a SOR (or similar
functionality) or algorithm could access subscribers’ confidential trading information
necessitates disclosure of certain information to subscribers about the use of a SOR (or similar
functionality) or algorithm by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates to route subscriber
orders to or out of the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that subscribers
and the Commission would benefit from increased disclosures about the use of a SOR(s) (or
similar functionality) or algorithm(s) by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates in connection
with the NMS Stock ATS because of the potential for information leakage. Existing Form ATS
does not specifically inquire about the use of a SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithms in
connection with an ATS and based on Commission experience, the Commission is concerned
that there is limited information available to subscribers about the interaction between SORs (or
226

similar functionalities) or algorithms and affiliated ATSs that trade NMS stocks, despite the
importance of SORs (or similar functionality) or algorithms to the functions and operations of
such ATSs. The Commission preliminarily believes that information provided on Form ATS-N
would allow market participants to better understand the operation of an NMS Stock ATS and
the circumstances that may give rise to potential conflicts of interest and information leakage.
Part III, Item 6(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
identify the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s) and identify the person(s) that
operates the SOR (or similar functionality) and algorithm(s). Part III, Item 6(a) of proposed
Form ATS-N is designed to provide subscribers with information about who operates the SOR(s)
(or similar functionality) or algorithm(s) used in connection with the NMS Stock ATS, which
would thereby inform subscribers about who may have access to their confidential trading
information or control over the entry and removal of orders or other trading interest to and from
the NMS Stock ATS. Information about the persons who operate a SOR(s) (or similar
functionality) or algorithm(s) used in connection with the NMS Stock ATS and how the SOR(s)
(or similar functionality) or algorithm(s) operates would allow subscribers to assess potential
sources of information leakage and conflicts of interest that may arise from the operation of the
SOR(s) (or similar functionality) and/or algorithm(s).
Part III, Item 6(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe the interaction or coordination between the identified SOR(s) (or similar functionality)
or algorithm(s) and the NMS Stock ATS, including any information or messages about orders or
other trading interest (e.g., IOIs) that the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s) send
or receive to or from the NMS Stock ATS and the circumstances under which such information
may be shared with any person. Because the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s)
227

and NMS Stock ATS are typically operated by the same broker-dealer operator (rather than a
third-party vendor), the Commission preliminarily believes subscribers to the NMS Stock ATS
are likely to find it important to understand what information about their orders is obtained by a
SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s) and the circumstances under which that
information may be used by the broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS, its affiliates, or
other persons. The Commission is concerned that without this information, subscribers that send
orders to the NMS Stock ATS by way of the broker-dealer operator’s SOR (or similar
functionality) or algorithm may not be able to understand the conditions under which
information about their confidential trading information may be leaked.
The interaction or coordination of the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s)
with the NMS Stock ATS likely varies across NMS Stock ATSs. For instance, a SOR (or similar
functionality) or algorithm may check for potential contra-side interest in a particular symbol on
the NMS Stock ATS prior to sending the subscriber order or other trading interest into the NMS
Stock ATS. Such protocol carried out by the SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm may
send only information about the symbol and side (i.e., buy or sell) of the subscriber’s order or
other trading interest, but not the size, price, identity of the subscriber or other information. As
another example, an NMS Stock ATS that uses IOIs as part of its platform may use its SOR (or
similar functionality) or an algorithm to facilitate the sending of IOIs to relevant persons
regarding orders or other trading interest resting on the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission
preliminarily believes that the operations and functions of the SOR(s) (or similar functionality)
or algorithm(s) in these examples would be relevant to subscribers and helpful in understanding
how the NMS Stock ATS operates.

228

The Commission notes that an ATS may consist of various functionalities or mechanisms
that operate collectively as a Rule 3b-16 system to bring together the orders for securities of
multiple buyers and sellers using non-discretionary methods. 414 Based on Commission
experience, most broker-dealer operators that use a SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or
algorithm operate the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s) separate and apart from
their ATS. However, to the extent that a SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm operates
jointly with, or performs a function of, the NMS Stock ATS to bring together the orders for
securities of multiple buyers and sellers using established nondiscretionary methods, the SOR (or
similar functionality) or algorithm may be considered part of the NMS Stock ATS. 415 For
example, a SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm that is, based on the facts and
circumstances, the exclusive means for subscribers to access and enter orders or other trading
interest on NMS Stock ATS for execution would be regarded as part of the operations of the
414

Under Rule 3b-16 an organization, association, or group of persons shall be considered to
constitute, maintain, or provide “a market place or facilities for bringing together
purchasers and sellers of securities or for otherwise performing with respect to securities
the functions commonly performed by a stock exchange,” if such organization,
association, or group of persons: (1) brings together the orders for securities of multiple
buyers and sellers; and (2) uses established, non-discretionary methods (whether by
providing a trading facility or by setting rules) under which such orders interact with each
other, and the buyers and sellers entering such orders agree to the terms of a trade. 17
CFR 240.3b-16(a).

415

The Commission noted in adopting Regulation ATS that the Commission “will attribute
the activities of a trading facility to a system if that facility is offered by the system
directly or indirectly” and “if an organization arranges for separate entities to provide
different pieces of a trading system, which together meet the definition contained in
paragraph (a) of Rule 3b-16, the organization responsible for arranging the collective
efforts will be deemed to have established a trading facility.” See Regulation ATS
Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70852. If the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or
algorithm(s) were operated by an affiliate of the NMS Stock ATS or an entity unaffiliated
with the NMS Stock ATS, the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s) could still
be considered a part of the NMS Stock ATS depending on the facts and circumstances.

229

NMS Stock ATS because the SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm would function as the
mechanism for orders or other trading interest to be brought together and interact in the NMS
Stock ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that information provided on proposed
Form ATS-N about the use of a SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm under Part III, Item 6
of proposed Form ATS-N would allow the Commission to better understand the operations and
scope of the NMS Stock ATS. That is, the proposed disclosures would assist the Commission in
determining if a SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm is facilitating the bringing together
of orders for securities of multiple buyers and sellers using established nondiscretionary
methods, and would consequently be part of the NMS Stock ATS for the purposes of Regulation
ATS.
Request for Comment
212.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part III, Item 6 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

213.

Do you believe Part III, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
regarding the use of a SOR or algorithm by the broker-dealer operators, or any of
its affiliates, to send or receive subscriber orders or other trading interest to or
from the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

214.

Do you believe that Part III, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear
with respect to the disclosures that would be required relating to the broker-dealer
operator and its affiliates’ use of SORs (or similar functionality) and algorithms in
connection with the NMS Stock ATS? If not, how should Part III, Item 6 of
230

proposed Form ATS-N be revised to provide additional clarity? Please explain in
detail.
215.

Do you believe it is appropriate for the Commission to require disclosure about
the use of SORs (or similar functionalities) and algorithms by the broker-dealer
operator, or its affiliates, to send or receive orders or other trading interest to or
from the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your arguments. If
so, what level of detail should be disclosed about how SORs (or similar
functionalities) and algorithms determine whether to send or receive orders or
other trading interest to the NMS Stock ATS? Please be specific.

216.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part III, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N? Do you believe the disclosures in Part
III, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N would have the potential to impact
innovation? Why or why not? Would the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 6
of proposed Form ATS-N require broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs to
reveal too much (or not enough) about their structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

217.

Do you believe the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 6 of proposed Form
ATS-N related to the use of SORs (or similar functionality) and algorithms should
be applied to affiliates of the broker-dealer operator? Why or why not? Please
support your arguments.

218.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding broker-dealer operators or their affiliates’ SORs (or
similar functionalities) and algorithms? If so, describe such information and
231

explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.
219.

Do you believe there is any information regarding broker-dealer operators or their
affiliates’ SORs (or similar functionality) and algorithms that the NMS Stock
ATS should not be required to disclose on proposed Form ATS-N due to concerns
regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets, burden, or any other
concerns? If so, what information and why? Please support your arguments.

220.

Do you believe that most subscribers to ATSs that transact in NMS stock access
the ATSs through the SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm of the brokerdealer operator (or its affiliates), or do they connect directly to the ATS through
some other means, or both? Please explain in detail.

221.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part III, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 6?

8.

Shared Employees of NMS Stock ATS

Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to state
whether any employee of the broker-dealer operator that services the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS also services any other business unit(s) of the broker-dealer operator or any
affiliate(s) of the broker-dealer operator (“shared employee”) and, if so, to (1) identify the
business unit(s) and/or the affiliate(s) of the broker-dealer operator to which the shared
employee(s) provides services and identify the position(s) or title(s) that the shared employee(s)
232

holds in the business unit(s) and/or affiliate(s) of the broker-dealer operator; and (2) describe the
roles and responsibilities of the shared employee(s) at the NMS Stock ATS and the business
unit(s) and/or affiliate(s) of the broker-dealer operator. 416
Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N is designed to provide information to market
participants and the Commission about circumstances that might give rise to a potential conflict
of interest and potential information leakage involving shared employees of the broker-dealer
operator. Responses to Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock
ATS to describe the roles and responsibilities of the shared employees with the NMS Stock ATS
and the other business units of the broker-dealer operator or affiliates. Responses to Part III,
Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N would be required to be sufficiently detailed to provide a
comprehensive understanding of the full range of the shared employee’s responsibilities with the
NMS Stock ATS and each relevant entity, and include disclosure of responsibilities that could
enable the employee to view subscribers’ confidential trading information. The Commission
preliminarily believes that market participants would find information about the multiple roles or
functions of shared employees disclosed in Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N important
in evaluating whether to route orders to a particular ATS. For example, to identify and
understand potential sources of information leakage, market participants would likely want to
know if an employee of the broker-dealer operator that is responsible for the operations of a
system supporting the NMS Stock ATS is also responsible for the proprietary trading activity of
an affiliate of the broker-dealer operator that trades on the NMS Stock ATS. In this example,
market participants might also be interested in understanding conflicts of interest that may result
416

See Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N.

233

from the shared employee performing multiple roles, as the shared employee could have an
incentive to alter the operations of the NMS Stock ATS to benefit the broker-dealer operator or
an affiliate of the NMS Stock ATS. 417
The Commission would preliminarily view any personnel that service the trading
functions of the NMS Stock ATS, such as those performing information technology,
programming, testing, or system design functions as employees that “service the operations of
the NMS Stock ATS.” Other employees of the NMS Stock ATS that are otherwise necessary for
the trading functions of the NMS Stock ATS would also be included in the disclosure
requirement of Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N. Clerical employees or those
performing solely administrative duties such as the payroll functions for the employees of the
NMS Stock ATS would preliminarily not be included within the proposed disclosure.
Request for Comment
222.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part III, Item 7 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

223.

Do you believe Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
related to “shared employees”? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

224.

Do you believe that Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear
with respect to the disclosures that would be required relating to shared

417

The Commission notes that a broker-dealer operator may have valid business reasons for
it or its affiliates having shared employees, and the Commission is not proposing to limit
the ability for a broker-dealer operator to have such arrangements.

234

employees of the broker-dealer operator? If not, how should Part III, Item 7 of
proposed Form ATS-N be revised to provide additional clarity? Please explain.
225.

Do you believe that it is sufficiently clear who would be considered a “shared
employee” under Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N? Why or why not? Is
the scope of “shared employees” provided under Part III, Item 7 reasonable?
Why or why not? Please explain.

226.

Do you believe there is any information contained in the proposed disclosures in
Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N regarding shared employees of the
broker-dealer operator that the NMS Stock ATS should not be required to disclose
on proposed Form ATS-N due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business
reasons, trade secrets, burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and
why? Please support your arguments.

227.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N? Do you believe the disclosures in Part
III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N would have the potential to impact
innovation or the manner in which NMS Stock ATSs and broker-dealer operators
use their employees? Why or why not? Would the proposed disclosures in Part
III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N require broker-dealer operators of NMS
Stock ATSs to reveal too much (or not enough) information about their structure
and operations? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

228.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding shared employees of the broker-dealer operator? If
so, describe such information and explain whether, and if so why, such
235

information should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N.
Please support your arguments.
229.

Do you believe that the Commission should expand the proposed disclosures in
Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N to other employees, personnel, or
independent contractors of the broker-dealer operator? Why or why not? If so,
which employees, personnel, or independent contractors should be included and
what information about such persons should be solicited? Please explain.

230.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 7?

9.

Service Providers to the NMS Stock ATS

Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
whether any operation, service, or function of the NMS Stock ATS is performed by any
person(s) other than the broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS, and if so to: (1) identify
the person(s) (in the case of a natural person, to identify only the position or title) performing the
operation, service, or function and note whether this service provider(s) is an affiliate of the
broker-dealer, if applicable; (2) describe the operation, service, or function that the identified
person(s) provides and describe the role and responsibilities of that person(s); and (3) state
whether the identified person(s), or any of its affiliates, may enter orders or other trading interest

236

on the NMS Stock ATS and, if so, describe the circumstances and means by which such orders
or other trading interest are entered on the NMS Stock ATS. 418
The Commission notes that Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N expands on the
disclosure requirements of Exhibit E on current Form ATS, which requires ATSs to disclose the
name of any entity other than the ATS that will be involved in the operation of the ATS,
including the execution, trading, clearing and settling of transactions on behalf of the ATS; and
to provide a description of the role and responsibilities of each entity. 419 Part III, Item 8 of
proposed Form ATS-N would require more detailed information about service providers to the
NMS Stock ATS than is currently required by Form ATS, including whether affiliates of service
providers may trade on the NMS Stock ATS.420
Under Part III, Item 8(a) of proposed Form ATS-N, the NMS Stock-ATS must identify
any entity that performs any operation, service, or function for the NMS Stock ATS. 421 For
example, an NMS Stock ATS may engage a third-party service provider to provide market data
for the NMS Stock ATS to, among other things, calculate reference prices (such as the NBBO).
Responses to Part III, Item 8(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would be required to include the name
418

See Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N.

419

See Item 7 of Form ATS (describing the requirements for Exhibit E to Form ATS).

420

The Commission notes that a broker-dealer operator may have valid business reasons for
it or its affiliates to have functions of the NMS Stock ATS performed by person(s) other
than the broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission is not
proposing to limit the ability for a broker-dealer operator to have such arrangements

421

The Commission is not proposing to require than an NMS Stock ATS provide any
personally identifiable information about any natural person in Part III, Item 8(a) of
proposed Form ATS-N. Part III, Item 8(a) of proposed Form ATS-N is designed to
solicit sufficient information to identify the entity or person providing the service,
operation, or function to the NMS Stock ATS, such as the position or title in the case of a
natural person acting as a service provider.

237

of the company that provides the market data. Part III, Item 8(b) of proposed Form ATS-N
would require an NMS Stock ATS to provide, in detail, information about the operations,
service, or function of the NMS Stock ATS that is provided by the identified third-party in Part
III, Item 8(a) of proposed Form ATS-N and its roles and responsibilities with respect to that
operation, service, or function. For example, a broker-dealer operator may engage a third party
to host and maintain the trading platform of the NMS Stock ATS. Part III, Item 8(b) of proposed
Form ATS-N would require a description of those services and the specific role and
responsibilities of the company and its employees. Responses to Part III, Item 8(b) of proposed
Form ATS-N would be required to be sufficiently detailed such that market participants and the
Commission could understand what functions are performed by a person other than an employee
of the broker-dealer operator and what those services include. As guidance for completing this
proposed disclosure item, the Commission would view an NMS Stock ATS simply stating that a
third-party provides technology or hardware services to the NMS Stock ATS as not sufficiently
responsive to the required disclosure. Responses to Part III, Item 8(b) of proposed Form ATS-N,
in the example above, would require a detailed description of information technology services,
including both hardware and software that may be provided, as well as any programming,
ongoing maintenance, monitoring, and other functions the service provider would perform with
respect to the NMS Stock ATS. As additional guidance, responses to Item 8 would also be
required to include any service provider that provides, for example, such functions as consulting
relating to the trading systems or functionality, cyber security, regulatory compliance, and record
keeping services or functions of the NMS Stock ATS. Additionally, an NMS Stock ATS would

238

be required to identify and describe the services of any service provider engaged for the purposes
of the clearance and settlement of trades for the NMS Stock ATS. 422
The Commission intends that the proposed disclosure requirements of Items 8(a) and (b)
of Part III of proposed Form ATS-N would apply to any operation, service, or function
performed by any person outside of the NMS Stock ATS entity, including affiliates of the
broker-dealer operator.423 However, services provided to the NMS Stock ATS by employees of
the broker-dealer operator would not need to be disclosed in Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form
ATS-N. The activities of such persons, to the extent they are shared employees, would be
disclosed pursuant to Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N. 424 The Commission also notes
that it does not intend that the proposed disclosure requirements of Part III, Item 8 of proposed
Form ATS-N would extend to operations, services, or functions that are administrative in nature
and do not pose a significant risk of information leakage of confidential trading information,
such as payroll functions servicing employees of the NMS Stock ATS or e-mail services
provided by an outside provider, because the Commission preliminarily believes that information
about the services of such third-party services providers and their employees would not be
422

The Commission notes that the examples listed above are not intended to be an
exhaustive list of the types of services, and the level of detail about those services, that
would be required by Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N. The Commission
preliminarily believes that the appropriate disclosure would be driven by the particular
facts and circumstances of operational structure of the NMS Stock ATS.

423

If, for example, the SOR of an affiliate of the broker-dealer operator is used to route
orders to and from the NMS Stock ATS, the SOR would need to be disclosed in Part III,
Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N and would likely also need to be disclosed in Part III,
Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N, which relates to SORs used by the broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates.

424

See supra Section VII.B.8 (discussing proposed requirements for disclosure pertaining to
NMS Stock ATS employees that are shared employees with other business units of the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates).

239

relevant to market participants’ evaluation of an NMS Stock ATS as a trading venue and would
not be necessary for the Commission’s oversight functions.
Items 8(a) and (b) of Part III of proposed Form ATS-N are designed to provide market
participants and the Commission with information about how the NMS Stock ATS operates,
potential conflicts of interest, and the potential for information leakage. In particular, the
Commission preliminarily believes that this information would inform market participants, as
well as the Commission, about what aspects of the NMS Stock ATS’s operations are performed
by third-parties that may or may not be under the control of the broker-dealer operator. For
example, an NMS Stock ATS whose trading system is operated or supported by a third-party
service provider may have business interests that are aligned with those of the service provider.
Additionally, depending on the role and responsibilities of the third-party service provider,
market participants may want to evaluate the robustness of the NMS Stock ATS’s safeguards and
procedures to protect confidential subscriber information.
Lastly, Part III, Item 8(c) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
state whether any person identified in Part III, Item 8(a) of proposed Form ATS-N or any of its
affiliates may enter orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS and if so, to describe
the circumstances and means by which such orders or other trading interests are entered on the
NMS Stock ATS. The purpose of these disclosures is to provide market participants and the
Commission with information about the potential for conflicts of interest that may result from a
service provider, or its affiliates, trading on the NMS Stock ATS and the potential for
information leakage. For example, the Commission preliminarily believes that a subscriber or
potential subscriber likely would want to know whether a person that is not an employee of the
broker-dealer operator, but is contracted to service the trading platform that contains the NMS
240

Stock ATS’s book of orders, could enter orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS.
Similarly, the Commission preliminarily believes that a subscriber or a potential subscriber
would also want to know whether an affiliate of the service provider could enter orders or other
trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS as well and whether its means of access differ from other
subscribers. Under both of these scenarios, a potential conflict of interest could result if the
service provider has business interests that compete with the trading interests of other subscribers
to the NMS Stock ATS.
Request for Comment
231.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part III, Item 8 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

232.

Do you believe Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
regarding any operation, service, or function of the NMS Stock ATS performed
by any person other than the broker-dealer operator? Why or why not? Please
support your arguments.

233.

Do you believe that Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear
with respect to the disclosures that would be required relating to service providers
of the NMS Stock ATS? If not, how should Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form
ATS-N be revised to provide additional clarity? Please explain.

234.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N? Do you believe the disclosures in Part
III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N would have the potential to impact
241

innovation or discourage arrangements with other service providers? Why or why
not? Would the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N
require broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs to reveal too much (or not
enough) information about their structure and operations? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.
235.

Do you believe that any of the information in the proposed disclosure
requirements of Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N regarding service
providers to the NMS Stock ATS should not be required to be disclosed on
proposed Form ATS-N due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business
reasons, trade secrets, burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and
why? Please support your arguments.

236.

Do you believe the Commission should adopt a more limited or expansive
definition of “affiliate” for purposes of this disclosure item? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

237.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding any operation, service, or function of the NMS Stock
ATS performed by any person other than the broker-dealer operator? If so,
describe such information and explain whether, and if so why, such information
should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support
your arguments.

238.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
242

this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 8?
10.

Differences in Availability of Services, Functionality, or Procedures

Part III, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to identify
and describe any service, functionality, or procedure of the NMS Stock ATS that is available or
applies to the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates, that is not available or does not apply to a
subscriber(s) to the NMS Stock ATS. The purpose of this disclosure is to alert market
participants to the existence of system, functionality, or trading features that the broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates may have that other subscribers do not. 425 For example, an NMS Stock
ATS may employ different procedures governing how orders entered on the NMS Stock ATS by
the broker-dealer operator’s business units or affiliates are segmented than it does for other
subscribers. The Commission preliminarily believes that the disclosure of those differences in
procedures would allow market participants to evaluate whether such differences might put them
at a disadvantage when competing against the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates for an
execution on the NMS Stock ATS and thus, better enable market participants to decide whether
submitting order flow to that NMS Stock ATS aligns with their trading or investment objectives.
The Commission notes that a significant difference between national securities exchanges
and NMS Stock ATSs is the extent to which each trading center allows access to its services by
its users. Section 6(b)(2) of the Exchange Act generally requires registered national securities
exchanges to allow any qualified and registered broker-dealer to become a member of the
425

The Commission notes that it is similarly proposing to require NMS Stock ATSs to
disclose differences in the treatment of subscribers on the NMS Stock ATS in a number
of proposed disclosure requirements. See, e.g., proposed Items 1(a) and 1(b) of Part IV of
proposed Form ATS-N.

243

exchange—a key element in assuring fair access to national securities exchange services. 426 In
contrast, the access requirements that apply to ATSs are much more limited. Because NMS
Stock ATSs are exempt from the definition of an “exchange” so long as they comply with
Regulation ATS, and thus, are not required to register as a national securities exchange pursuant
to Sections 5 and 6 of the Exchange Act, NMS Stock ATSs are not required to provide fair
access unless they reach a 5% trading volume threshold in a stock, which almost all NMS Stock
ATSs currently do not.427 As a result, access to the services of NMS Stock ATSs is determined
primarily by private negotiation, and such access to services can differ among persons that
subscribe to the NMS Stock ATS.
While the Commission is not proposing to change the fair access requirements applicable
to NMS Stock ATSs in this proposal, the Commission is proposing to require, among other
things, disclosures on Form ATS-N that identify and describe differences among subscribers (or
other persons) in the services, procedures or functionalities that an NMS Stock ATS provides, as
well as disclosures that identify and describe any services, functionalities, or procedures of an
NMS Stock ATS that are available to the broker-dealer operator’s affiliates, but are not available
to subscribers. The Commission preliminarily believes that the disclosure of these differences
would allow market participants to evaluate whether such differences might put them at a
disadvantage when trading on a particular NMS Stock ATS and thus, better enable market
participants to decide whether submitting order flow to that NMS Stock ATS aligns with their
trading or investment objectives.
426

15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(2).

427

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5). See also supra notes 92-95 and accompanying text
(discussing the fair access requirements of Regulation ATS).

244

The Commission notes that ATSs may treat subscribers differently with respect to the
services offered by the ATS unless prohibited by applicable federal securities laws or the rules
and regulations thereunder. For example, an ATS with at least 5% of the average daily volume
for any covered security during four of the preceding six months is required to comply with fair
access requirements under Rule 301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS, 428 which, among other things,
requires an ATS to establish written standards for granting access to trading on its system and
not unreasonably prohibiting or limiting any person with respect to access to services offered by
the ATS by applying the written standards in an unfair or discriminatory manner. Thus, for
example, an ATS that discloses a service to one class of subscribers (or makes the associated
functionality available to only one class of subscribers) could not, if it were subject to the fair
access requirements, discriminate in this manner unless it had fair and non-discriminatory
reasons for doing so. The Commission further notes that, even if an ATS is not subject to the
fair access requirements, inaccurate or misleading disclosures about an ATS’s operations could
result in violations of the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws. 429
Request for Comment
239.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part III, Item 9 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

428

See id.

429

See, e.g., UBS Settlement at 14, ITG Settlement at 15, Pipeline Settlement at 16, and
Liquidnet Settlement at 14, supra note 374 (all noting violations of Section 17(a)(2) of
the Securities Act, which prohibits, directly or indirectly, in the offer or sale of securities,
obtaining money or property by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any
omission to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light
of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.) 15 U.S.C. 77q(a)(2).

245

240.

Do you believe Part III, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
related to any service, functionality, or procedure of the NMS Stock ATS that is
available or applies to the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates, that is not
available or does not apply to a subscriber(s) to the NMS Stock ATS? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

241.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding any service, functionality, or procedure of the NMS
Stock ATS that is available or applies to the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates, that is not available or does not apply to a subscriber(s) to the NMS
Stock ATS? If so, describe such information and explain whether, and if so why,
such information should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N.
Please support your arguments.

242.

Do you believe that Part III, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear
with respect to the disclosures that would be required relating to the differences in
services provided to the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates trading on the NMS
Stock ATS? If not, how should Part III, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N be
revised to provide additional clarity? Please explain.

243.

Do you believe that the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 9 of proposed Form
ATS-N that are intended to cover differences in services, functionalities, or
procedures should be applied to affiliates of the broker-dealer operator? Why or
why not? Conversely, should such disclosures be extended to more remote

246

affiliates under a revised definition of “affiliate”? 430 Should disclosure apply to a
more limited set of affiliates? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
244.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part III, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N? Do you believe the disclosures in Part
III, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N would have the potential to impact
innovation? Why or why not? Would the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 9
of proposed Form ATS-N require broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs to
reveal too much (or not enough) information about their structure and operations?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

245.

Do you believe there is any information regarding differences in services,
functionalities, or procedures of the NMS Stock ATS that are available to the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates and not other subscribers that should not be
required disclosures on Form ATS-N due to concerns regarding confidentiality,
business reasons, trade secrets, burden, or any other concerns? If so, what
information and why? Please support your arguments.

246.

Do you believe that the Commission should propose amendments to Rule
301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS to lower the trading volume threshold in Regulation
ATS that triggers the fair access requirement from its current 5%? If so, what is
the appropriate threshold? Please support your arguments.

247.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part III, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N

430

See, e.g., supra note 385 and accompanying text.

247

other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 9?
11.

Confidential Treatment of Trading Information

Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N is based on the requirements of Rule
301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS, 431 and would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe the written
safeguards and written procedures to protect the confidential trading information of subscribers
to the NMS Stock ATS. It would also require an NMS Stock ATS to: (a) describe the means by
which a subscriber can consent or withdraw consent to the disclosure of confidential trading
information to any persons (including the broker-dealer operator and any of its affiliates); (b)
identify the positions or titles of any persons that have access to the confidential trading
information, describe the confidential trading information to which the persons have access, and
describe the circumstances under which the persons can access confidential trading information;
(c) describe the written standards controlling employees of the NMS Stock ATS trading for the
employees’ accounts; and (d) describe the written oversight procedures to ensure that the
safeguards and procedures described above are implemented and followed.
As previously noted,432 the Commission stated when adopting Regulation ATS that Rule
301(b)(10) did not preclude a broker-dealer that operated an ATS from engaging in other brokerdealer functions. However, to prevent the misuse of private subscriber and customer trading

431

17 CFR 242.301(b)(10).

432

See infra Sections IX and X (discussing the requirements of Rule 301(b)(10) and
proposed amendments to require that safeguards and procedures be written and
preserved).

248

information for the benefit of other customers or activities of the broker-dealer operator, the
Commission required that ATSs have in place safeguards and procedures to protect that
confidential trading information and to separate ATS functions from other broker-dealer
functions. 433 In adopting Rule 301(b)(10), the Commission stated that the rule was meant to
ensure that information, such as the identity of subscribers and their orders, be available only to
those employees of the alternative trading system who operate the system or are responsible for
its compliance with applicable rules. 434 Thus, a broker-dealer operator may not convert
confidential trading information of ATS subscribers for use by the non-ATS business units
operated by the broker-dealer.
The protection of subscribers’ confidential trading information remains a bedrock
component of the regulation of ATSs, including those that trade NMS stocks, and is essential to
ensuring the integrity of ATSs as execution venues. To the extent that subscribers cannot be
assured that their confidential trading information will be protected by an ATS, many of the
advantages or purposes for which a subscriber may choose to send its orders to an ATS (e.g.,
trade anonymously and/or to mitigate the impact of trading large positions) 435 are eliminated.
Moreover, if subscribers’ confidential trading information is shared without subscribers’ consent,
that information may be used by the recipient of the information to gain a competitive advantage
over the subscriber. In cases where the confidential trading information of a subscriber is
impermissibly shared with the personnel of the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates (i.e.,
433

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70879.

434

Id.

435

See id. (stating that many of the ATSs popular at the time Regulation ATS was adopted
were anonymous and that many ECNs at that time were popular because they permitted
wide dissemination of orders but provided anonymity).

249

persons who are not responsible for the operation of the ATS or compliance with applicable
rules), such an abuse is compounded by the conflicting interests of the broker-dealer operator.
That is, in such a case, the broker-dealer operator has invited subscribers to trade on its ATS and
may have abused that relationship to provide itself or its affiliates with a direct competitive
advantage over that subscriber. The Commission preliminarily believes that disclosure is
necessary in this area so market participants can independently evaluate the robustness of the
safeguards and procedures that are employed by the NMS Stock ATS to protect subscriber
confidential trading information and decide for themselves whether they wish to do business
with a particular NMS Stock ATS.
Part III, Item 10(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to
describe the means by which a subscriber can consent or withdraw consent to the disclosure of
confidential trading information to any persons (including the broker-dealer operator and any of
its affiliates). Disclosing the means by which a subscriber can consent or withdraw consent from
the sharing of such information would allow subscribers and potential subscribers to understand
what information about their orders or other trading interest will be kept confidential and how
they can specify the means by which they choose to share confidential information. As the
Commission noted in the adoption of Regulation ATS, subscribers should be able to give consent
if they so choose to share their confidential trading information. 436 ATSs that transact in NMS
stocks vary in terms of what types of orders, indications of interests, or other forms of trading
interest are confidential on their systems and what specific information about such trading
interest may be shared. For example, an ATS might provide that no IOIs submitted by
436

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70879.

250

subscribers will be considered confidential, but may provide subscribers with the option to
restrict the information in the IOI message to just the symbol and side (i.e., buy or sell). In this
example, responses to Item 10(a) would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe the means by
which a subscriber or potential subscriber could control some of the information contained in the
IOI message by providing consent or withdrawing such consent for the sharing of its confidential
trading information. 437
Part III, Item 10(b) of proposed Form ATS-N, which would require that ATSs identify
any person that has access to confidential trading information, the type of information, and the
circumstances under which they may access such information, is meant to provide transparency
into the potential sources from which confidential trading information might be compromised.
As noted above, Regulation ATS requires that access to confidential subscriber information be
available only to those employees of the ATS that operate the system or are responsible for the
ATS’s compliance with applicable rules. 438 The Commission preliminarily believes that
requiring ATSs to disclose the list by title or position of all personnel that can access the
confidential trading information of subscribers would buttress the existing obligations on ATSs
to restrict access only to permitted personnel (i.e., those responsible for its operation or
compliance).

437

The Commission notes that there may be some NMS Stock ATSs that might not offer any
means by which a subscriber could consent to the dissemination of its confidential
trading information. An NMS Stock ATS would be required to disclose this fact
pursuant to Item 9(a).

438

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70879; 17 CFR
242.301(b)(10)(i)(A).

251

Part III, Item 10(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would also require the NMS Stock ATS to
describe the confidential trading information that may be accessed by permitted persons. For
example, employees that operate the NMS Stock ATS may be able to see the size, side, and
symbol of an order but not the identity of the subscriber that submitted the order. The
Commission preliminarily believes that subscribers and potential subscribers to the NMS Stock
ATS likely would find it useful to know the range of confidential trading information that a
person may have access to. Item 10(b) would also require the disclosure of the circumstances
under which confidential trading information may be accessed by permitted persons. This
disclosure requirement is designed to encompass the reasons for which confidential subscriber
information might be accessed. For example, an NMS Stock ATS may only permit its
designated employees access to confidential subscriber information when it is necessary to break
certain trades or to perform system maintenance or repairs. Disclosures in Item 10(b) generally
should describe whether the information is available in real-time (i.e., as trading is occurring on
the platform) or whether the information relates to historical activity by one or more
subscribers. 439
Part III, Items 10(c) and (d) of proposed Form ATS-N closely track the existing
requirements of Regulation ATS encompassed in Rule 301(b)(10)(i)(B) and (b)(10)(ii)
respectively. The Commission preliminarily believes that market participants and the
Commission would benefit from a description of the NMS Stock ATS’s standards in ensuring
that employees of the NMS Stock ATS cannot trade for their own account using confidential
439

For example, an NMS Stock ATS that permits access to the confidential trading
information of subscribers for breaking trades generally should specify, if true, that
access to that information would only be of previous activity on the NMS Stock ATS for
the purpose of breaking a trade.

252

trading information and the procedures adopted by the NMS Stock ATS to ensure its safeguards
and procedures are followed. The Commission notes that, pursuant to existing Rule 301(b)(10),
the Commission requires ATSs to have in place such standards, policies, and procedures. As
discussed in greater detail below, the Commission is proposing to amend Regulation ATS to
provide that these standards, policies, and procedures be written. 440 By requiring that these
standards, policies, and procedures be written and that a description of them be publicly
disclosed in Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N, NMS Stock ATSs may be encouraged to
carefully consider the adequacy of their means of protecting the confidential trading information
of subscribers, which may result in more robust protections of such information. Market
participants would be able to evaluate the relative robustness of such standards, policies, and
procedures based on the disclosures provided in Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N,
which would in turn allow them to better evaluate the NMS Stock ATS to which they might
route orders or become a subscriber.
Request for Comment
248.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part III, Item 10 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

249.

Do you believe Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to the written safeguards and written procedures to protect the

440

See infra Section IX.

253

confidential trading information of subscribers to the NMS Stock ATS? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.
250.

Do you believe that Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently
clear with respect to the disclosures that would be required relating to the NMS
Stock ATS’s obligations under Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS, including a
description of the safeguards and procedures of the NMS Stock ATS to protect
the confidential trading information of subscribers? If not, how should Part III,
Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N be revised to provide additional clarity? Please
explain.

251.

Do you believe that any of information in the proposed disclosure requirements of
Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N, including a description of the NMS
Stock ATS’s safeguards and procedures to protect the confidential trading
information of subscribers, should not be required to be disclosed on proposed
Form ATS-N due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade
secrets, burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and why? Please
support your arguments.

252.

Do you believe that the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 10(a) of proposed
Form ATS-N requiring an NMS Stock ATS to describe the means by which a
subscriber can consent or withdraw consent to the disclosure of confidential
trading information should be disclosed? Do ATSs that currently transact in NMS
stock inform subscribers as to what trading information is considered confidential
and/or provide a means for subscribers to give or withdraw consent to the
disclosure of such trading information? Please explain.
254

253.

Do you believe that the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 10(b) of proposed
Form ATS-N requiring an NMS Stock ATS to identify the positions or titles of
any persons that have access to the confidential trading information of
subscribers, what information they may obtain, and the circumstances under
which such persons may obtain that information should be disclosed? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

254.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding NMS Stock ATSs obligations under Rule 301(b)(10)
and the protection of the confidential trading information of subscribers that has
not been proposed in Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N? If so, describe
such information and explain whether, and if so why, such information should be
required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your
arguments.

255.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N require broker-dealer operators of
NMS Stock ATSs to reveal too much (or not enough) information about their
structure and operations? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

256.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part III, Item 10?
255

VIII. Part IV of Proposed Form ATS-N: The Manner of Operations of the NMS Stock
ATS
Given the dispersal of trading volume in NMS stocks among an increasing number of
trading centers, 441 the decision of where to route orders to obtain best execution for market
participants is critically important. Today, NMS Stock ATSs account for a significant source of
liquidity for NMS stocks and compete with, and operate functionally similar to, registered
national securities exchanges. 442 Notwithstanding the importance of NMS Stock ATSs as a
source of liquidity in NMS stocks and the increasing operational complexity of NMS Stock
ATSs, market participants have limited information about how these markets operate. The
Commission is concerned that this lack of operational transparency impedes market participants
from adequately discerning how orders interact, match, and execute on NMS Stock ATSs, and
may hinder market participants’ ability to obtain, or monitor for, best execution for their orders.
The current disclosures on Form ATS are confidential, and even in cases where an ATS
voluntarily discloses its Form ATS publicly, ATSs have often been reluctant to provide more
than summary disclosures about their operations. As a result, neither the Commission nor
market participants currently receive a full picture of the operations of NMS Stock ATSs. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the information that would be disclosed on proposed
Form ATS-N, and in particular Part IV of the Form, would significantly improve the opportunity
for market participants and the Commission to understand the operations of NMS Stock ATSs.

441

See supra Section III.A (discussing the various trading venues for NMS stocks and the
significance of NMS Stock ATSs as a significant source of liquidity).

442

See id.

256

Part IV of proposed Form ATS-N would require that the NMS Stock ATS include as
Exhibit 4 information about the operations of an NMS Stock ATS. Specifically, Part IV of
proposed Form ATS-N would require detailed information about the operations of NMS Stock
ATSs, including the following, which are discussed in more detail below: subscribers; hours of
operations; order types; connectivity and order entry; segmentation of order flow; display of
orders and trading interest; trading services; procedures governing suspension of trading and
trading during system disruptions and malfunctions; opening, reopening, closing and after-hours
trading procedures; outbound routing from the NMS Stock ATS; use of market data by the NMS
Stock ATS; fees; trade reporting, clearance and settlement procedures; order display and
execution access; and fair access standards. The proposed disclosure requirements are designed
to assist market participants in assessing an NMS Stock ATS as a trading venue. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the information that would be required to be disclosed on
proposed Form ATS-N would allow market participants to compare and evaluate NMS Stock
ATSs, as well as compare NMS Stock ATSs with national securities exchanges, as the type and
level of information required by Part IV of proposed Form ATS-N would be generally similar to
the information disclosed by national securities exchanges about their operations. For example,
the rules of national securities exchanges, which are publicly available, 443 include membership
eligibility requirements, hours of operations, the operation of order types, the structure of the
market (e.g., auction market, limit order matching book), priority, and opening and closing
procedures, among other things. In addition, information provided on proposed Form ATS-N

443

See supra note 303.

257

should assist the Commission, and the SRO for the broker-dealer operator, in exercising
oversight over the broker-dealer operator. 444
A. Subscribers
Part IV, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
information regarding any eligibility requirements to access the NMS Stock ATS, terms and
conditions of use, types of subscribers, arrangements with liquidity providers, and any
procedures or standards to limit or deny access to the NMS Stock ATS.445
Part IV, Item 1(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any eligibility requirements to gain access to the services of the NMS Stock ATS. If the
eligibility requirements are not the same for all subscribers and persons, an NMS Stock ATS
would be required to describe any differences. This item is designed to provide potential
subscribers with information about any conditions they would need to satisfy prior to accessing
the NMS Stock ATS. Based on Commission experience, the eligibility process and requirements
to access an NMS Stock ATS vary, and the requirements may differ depending on whether a
potential subscriber is a customer of the broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS. For
instance, some NMS Stock ATSs require that a potential subscriber be a broker-dealer to enter

444

The SRO for an ATS has responsibility for overseeing the activities of the broker-dealer
operator, which includes the activities of the NMS Stock ATS and surveilling the trading
that occurs on the NMS Stock ATS. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note
7, at 70863.

445

The Commission notes that Exhibit A of current Form ATS requires an ATS to describe
its classes of subscribers (for example, broker-dealer, institution, or retail) and any
differences in access to the services offered by the ATS to different groups or classes of
subscribers. Part IV, Section 1 of proposed Form ATS-N would require similar
information, but the proposed requirements of Form ATS-N are designed to solicit more
detailed information than that currently solicited by Form ATS.

258

orders on the NMS Stock ATS, while other NMS Stock ATSs do not. Some NMS Stock ATSs
may require potential subscribers to submit financial information as a pre-requisite to subscribing
to, or maintaining their subscriber status on, the NMS Stock ATS.446 The Commission
preliminarily believes that market participants would find it useful to understand an NMS Stock
ATS’s eligibility requirements so they may determine whether they may qualify for access to an
NMS Stock ATS.447 The Commission preliminarily believes that making such information
publicly available would provide efficiencies, as a market participant could source information
about, and compare and contrast, the eligibility processes and requirements to access different
NMS Stock ATSs. The Commission also preliminary believes that it would be better able to
monitor the extent to which NMS Stock ATSs are available to market participants and obtain a
thorough understanding of NMS Stock ATS’s eligibility processes and requirements.
Request for Comment
257.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 1(a) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

258.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 1(a) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to eligibility requirements to gain access to the services of the
NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

446

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70859 (stating that the limitation
on ATSs governing the conduct of subscribers does not preclude an ATS from requiring
financial information from subscribers).

447

See Liquidnet letter #1, supra note 166 and accompanying text (stating disclosures should
include the admission criteria for each ATS).

259

259.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 1(a) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

260.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the eligibility process or requirements to gain access
to the services of the NMS Stock ATS? If so, describe such information and
explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

261.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
1(a) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and why? Please support
your arguments.

262.

Do you believe that subscribers and potential subscribers would benefit from
knowing the eligibility requirements of the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

263.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 1(a) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 1(a) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

264.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 1(a) of proposed Form ATS-N
260

other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 1(a)?
Part IV, Item 1(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe the terms and conditions of any contractual agreements for granting access to the NMS
Stock ATS for the purpose of effecting transactions in securities or for submitting,
disseminating, or displaying orders on the NMS Stock ATS, and to state whether these
contractual agreements are written. Furthermore, if the terms and conditions of any contractual
agreements are not the same for all subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock ATS would be
required to describe any differences. Based on Commission experience, these contractual
agreements may or may not be in writing, and the terms and conditions therein can vary among
subscribers to the NMS Stock ATSs.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it would be important for all subscribers to
have access to all relevant information regarding the terms and conditions for accessing the
trading services of the NMS Stock ATS, which today may not always be available to all
subscribers. This item would allow subscribers to understand their rights and obligations in
connection with their use of the NMS Stock ATS, and allow subscribers and potential
subscribers to assess whether other market participants may have access arrangements more
favorable than their own. This information is designed to help market participants when
evaluating which trading centers they could or would like to access, and on which terms they
could seek executions on those trading centers. The Commission preliminarily believes that
having such information publicly available would provide efficiencies as market participants
could more easily source information about the terms and conditions under which they could
261

trade across NMS Stock ATSs, as well as compare those terms and conditions to those of
national securities exchanges. The Commission understands that some NMS Stock ATSs
communicate the terms and conditions to access the NMS Stock ATS orally to subscribers, often
as part of an onboarding process, and do not provide written contractual agreements. The
Commission preliminarily believes that market participants would benefit from knowing whether
a written contractual agreement exists that sets forth the terms and conditions for accessing and
trading on the NMS Stock ATS. Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
disclosures that would be required under Item 1(b) would better inform potential subscribers
about whether additional inquiry is necessary to fully understand the terms and conditions for
trading on the NMS Stock ATS.
Request for Comment
265.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 1(b) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

266.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 1(b) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to the terms and conditions of any contractual agreements for
granting access to the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

267.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 1(b) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

262

268.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the terms and conditions of any contractual
agreements by which access is granted to the services of the NMS Stock ATS? If
so, describe such information and explain whether, and if so why, such
information should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N.
Please support your arguments.

269.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
1(b) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and why? Please support
your arguments.

270.

Do you believe that NMS Stock ATSs commonly have written contractual
agreements for granting access to the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not, and
what is the basis for such belief? If not, how is access granted? How are the
terms and conditions of trading on the NMS Stock ATS communicated to
subscribers? Is there commonly an onboarding process for new subscribers?
What does such onboarding process entail? Please explain in detail.

271.

Do you believe there are agreements between subscribers and an NMS Stock ATS
that are not written? If so, what is the basis for your belief, what do those nonwritten agreements encompass, and how are they communicated to subscribers?
Are any materials other than contracts provided to subscribers that set forth terms
and conditions for granting access to the NMS Stock ATS? Please explain in
detail.
263

272.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 1(b) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 1(b) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

273.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 1(b) of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 1(b)?

Part IV, Item 1(c) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe the types of subscribers and other persons that use the services of the NMS Stock ATS
(e.g., institutional and retail investors, broker-dealers, proprietary trading firms). The NMS
Stock ATS would also be required to state whether it accepts non-broker-dealers as subscribers
to the NMS Stock ATS and describe any criteria for distinguishing among types of subscribers,
classes of subscribers, or other persons.
This item would provide information about the types of subscribers to the NMS Stock
ATS, or other persons that can enter orders onto the NMS Stock ATS, so that market participants
and the Commission would be better informed about the type of order flow that may be present
on the NMS Stock ATS. Moreover, this item would, in conjunction with the other disclosure
requirements of proposed Form ATS-N regarding differences in access to services or
functionality of the NMS Stock ATS, inform market participants of any privileges or restrictions
that attach to different categories of subscribers so that subscribers could evaluate which
264

privileges or restrictions might apply to them or the counterparties against which they would be
trading. 448 For example, an NMS Stock ATS may only allow certain types of subscribers,
including institutional investors, retail investors, broker-dealers, or proprietary trading firms, to
enter a certain type of order on the NMS Stock ATS. Additionally, NMS Stock ATSs may
assign different priorities to orders based on the types of subscribers that entered the orders on
the NMS Stock ATS, such as orders originating from retail brokerage accounts or proprietary
traders. Furthermore, the Commission understands that subscribers may wish to preclude or
limit the interaction of their orders with the orders of certain other subscribers for several
reasons, such as to help reduce information leakage or the possibility of trading with
counterparties that they perceive to be undesirable. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily
believes that subscribers would find it useful to know the types of subscribers or other persons
transacting on the NMS Stock ATS, and with that knowledge, they would be in a better position
to evaluate the order flow on the NMS Stock ATS and determine whether they may wish to send
their orders to the NMS Stock ATS for execution. 449 The Commission also preliminarily
believes that increased transparency regarding the types of subscribers—and distinctions an
NMS Stock ATS makes among subscribers or other persons when trying to access the ATS—
would advance the Commission’s objective of protecting investors by giving them better
information with which to protect their own interests.
Request for Comment

448

But see supra notes 92-95 and 427-429 and accompanying text (discussing the fair access
requirements of Regulation ATS).

449

See Lime Brokerage letter, supra note 192 and accompanying text (stating the
Commission should require “transparency around . . . membership of dark pools”).

265

274.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 1(c) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

275.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 1(c) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to the types of subscribers and other persons that use the
services of the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

276.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 1(c) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

277.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding distinctions made by the NMS Stock ATS among
subscribers? If so, describe such information and explain whether, and if so why,
such information should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N.
Please support your arguments.

278.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
1(c) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and why? Please support
your arguments.

279.

Do you believe that the information that would be required by Part IV, Item 1(c)
of proposed Form ATS-N would aid subscribers in evaluating the order flow on
266

the NMS Stock ATS and determining whether they wish to send their orders there
for execution? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
280.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 1(c) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 1(c) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

281.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 1(c) of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 1(c)?

Part IV, Item 1(d) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any formal or informal arrangement the NMS Stock ATS has with a subscriber(s) or
person(s) to provide liquidity to the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., undertaking to buy or sell
continuously, or to meet specified thresholds of trading or quoting activity). Item 1(d) would
further require an NMS Stock ATS to describe the terms and conditions of each arrangement and
identify any liquidity providers that are affiliates of the broker-dealer operator.
An NMS Stock ATS may want to ensure that there is sufficient liquidity in a particular
NMS stock to incentivize subscribers to send order flow in that NMS stock to the NMS Stock
ATS; market participants may believe they are more likely to get an execution because of such
liquidity. The Commission understands that some ATSs that trade NMS stocks may engage
certain subscribers to provide liquidity to the NMS Stock ATS and perform similar functions to
267

that of a market maker on a national securities exchange. 450 These liquidity providers may quote
in a particular NMS stock on the NMS Stock ATS during trading hours and may receive a
benefit for performing this function, such as discounts on fees, rebates, or the opportunity to
execute with a particular type of segmented order flow. 451 The obligations required of liquidity
providers and the benefits they are provided vary across NMS Stock ATSs. Accordingly, the
Commission proposes to require NMS Stock ATSs to describe the terms of any formal or
informal arrangement with a liquidity provider, which could entail such obligations and benefits
as well as a description of the process by which a subscriber could become a liquidity provider
on the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that information about liquidity
providers would be useful to subscribers and market participants who, for example, may want
their orders to only interact with agency orders (and not with those of a liquidity provider), or,
conversely, may themselves want to become a liquidity provider on the NMS Stock ATS.
Part IV, Item 1(d) of proposed Form ATS-N would also require an NMS Stock ATS to
identify any liquidity providers that are affiliates of the broker-dealer operator. The Commission
preliminarily believes that market participants would find it useful to know whether the broker-

450

See, e.g., The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, Rule 4613, Market Maker Obligations.
Market-makers on a national securities exchange typically undertake, among other things,
two-sided quote obligations where the market maker holds itself out as willing to buy and
sell a particular security or securities for its own account on a continuous basis during
trading hours. The obligations required of market makers may vary across national
securities exchanges.

451

Often, market makers on national securities exchanges are provided benefits for
providing liquidity to the exchange, such as fee discounts, rebates, or volume incentive
programs that may not be available to non-market makers. See, e.g., The NASDAQ
Stock Market LLC, Rule 7014, Market Quality Incentive Programs (describing the
“Qualified Market Maker Program” and “Lead Market Maker Program”). The attendant
benefits provided to market makers may vary across national securities exchanges.

268

dealer operator itself, or its affiliates, have an arrangement to provide liquidity to the NMS Stock
ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that such information could reveal potential
conflicts of interest, if, for example, an NMS Stock ATS were to only permit affiliates to act as
liquidity providers and provided significant benefits for performing that function.
Request for Comment
282.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 1(d) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

283.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 1(d) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to any formal or informal arrangement the NMS Stock ATS
has with a subscriber(s) or person(s) to provide liquidity to the NMS Stock ATS?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

284.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 1(d) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

285.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding arrangements with subscribers or other persons to
provide liquidity to the NMS Stock ATS? If so, describe such information and
explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

286.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
1(d) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
269

disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and why? Please support
your arguments.
287.

Do you believe that the information that would be required by Part IV, Item 1(d)
of proposed Form ATS-N would aid subscribers in evaluating the order flow on
the NMS Stock ATS and determining whether they wish to send their orders there
for execution? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

288.

Do you believe that the proposed requirement in Part IV, Item 1(d) of proposed
Form ATS-N that the NMS Stock ATS identify any liquidity providers that are
affiliates of the broker-dealer operator would aid subscribers in evaluating
potential conflicts of interest of the broker-dealer operator, the order flow on the
NMS Stock ATS, and determining whether they wish to send their orders there
for execution? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

289.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 1(d) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 1(d) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

290.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 1(d) of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 1(d)?
270

Part IV, Item 1(e) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe the circumstances by which access to the NMS Stock ATS for a subscriber or other
person may be limited or denied, and describe any procedures or standards that are used to
determine such action. If these circumstances, procedures, or standards are not applicable to all
subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to describe any differences. As
an ATS, an NMS Stock ATS cannot exercise SRO powers and may not discipline subscribers
other than by excluding them from trading. 452 The Commission understands that ATSs that trade
NMS stocks have rules governing subscribers’ participation on the ATS, and that if a subscriber
fails to comply with these rules, the ATS may limit or deny access to the NMS Stock ATS. 453
These limitations can result in some subscribers having different levels of functionality or more
favorable terms of access than others. The Commission preliminarily believes that it is
important for subscribers to have advance notice of the circumstances under which their access
to NMS Stock ATSs would be limited or denied, and the procedures or standards that would be
used to govern such actions. The Commission preliminarily believes that understanding such
information would provide efficiencies as a market participant could source information about
potential limits to accessing an NMS Stock ATS, even if that market participant otherwise meets
the eligibility criteria for subscribing to the NMS Stock ATS, and it would allow them to
evaluate whether any limitations may result in receiving less favorable access from the NMS
452

See supra note 286 and accompanying text.

453

Form ATS-R, Exhibit C requires an ATS subject to the fair access obligations under Rule
301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS to list all persons granted, denied, or limited access to the
ATS during the period covered by the ATS-R report, designating for each person (a)
whether they were granted, denied, or limited access; (b) the date the alternative trading
system took such action; (c) the effective date of such action; and (d) the nature of any
denial on limitation of access. See Form ATS-R.

271

Stock ATS. The increased transparency regarding these procedures also may advance the
Commission’s objective of protecting investors by helping the Commission to understand when
NMS Stock ATSs deny or limit access to market participants.
Request for Comment
291.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 1(e) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

292.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 1(e) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to the circumstances by which access to the NMS Stock ATS
for a subscriber or other person may be limited or denied? Please explain.

293.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 1(e) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

294.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the process by which access to an NMS Stock ATS
for a subscriber may be limited or denied? If so, describe such information and
explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

295.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
1(e) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,

272

burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and why? Please support
your arguments.
296.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 1(e) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 1(e) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

297.

Do you believe there are circumstances under which NMS Stock ATSs currently
limit the functionality available to subscribers due to an action or inaction on the
part of a subscriber? If so, what is the basis for your belief, what are those
circumstances, and what functionality is typically limited? Is it common for an
NMS Stock ATS to deny access to subscribers as opposed to limiting access?
Why or why not, and under what circumstances? Please be specific.

298.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 1(e) of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Items 1(e)?

B. Hours of Operations
Part IV, Item 2(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
provide the days and hours of operation of the NMS Stock ATS, including the times when orders
or other trading interest are entered on the NMS Stock ATS and the time when pre-opening or
after-hours trading occur. Also, if the times when orders or other trading interest are entered on
273

the NMS Stock are not the same for all subscribers and persons, Part IV, Item 2(b) would require
the NMS Stock ATS to describe any differences.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is important for subscribers and the
Commission to have information regarding when NMS Stock ATSs are operating and when
orders can be entered on those trading centers, including when an NMS Stock ATS will accept
orders outside of standard operating hours. The Commission notes that national securities
exchanges’ rulebooks, which are publicly available, include such information. 454 Making such
information publicly available for NMS Stock ATSs would enable market participants to more
easily compare when trading interest may be entered on NMS stock trading centers. This
information also would allow the Commission to better understand the operations of NMS Stock
ATSs.
Request for Comment
299.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 2 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

300.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
related to the days and hours of operation of the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments.

454

See, e.g., BATS Exchange Rules 1.5(c) (setting forth hours for the exchange’s After
Hours Trading Session), 1.5(r) (setting forth hours for the exchange’s Pre-Opening
Session), 1.5(w) (setting forth the hours for the exchange’s Regular Trading Hours), and
11.1 (setting forth the exchange’s hours of trading and trading days, and when certain
order types may be entered).

274

301.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the hours of operation of an NMS Stock ATS? If so,
describe such information and explain whether, and if so why, such information
should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support
your arguments.

302.

Do you believe that Part IV, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N is sufficiently clear
with respect to the disclosures that would be required? If not, how should Part
IV, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N be revised to provide additional clarity?
Please explain in detail.

303.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item 2
of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and why? Please support
your arguments.

304.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

305.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could

275

this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 2?
C. Types of Orders
Part IV, Item 3(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any types of orders that are entered on the NMS Stock ATS, their characteristics,
operations, and how they are handled on the NMS Stock ATS, including: (i) priority for each
order type; (ii) conditions for each order type; (iii) order types designed not to remove liquidity
(e.g., post-only orders); (iv) order types that adjust their price as changes to the order book occur
(e.g., price sliding orders or pegged orders) or have a discretionary range; (v) the time-in-force
instructions that can be used or not used with each order type; (vi) the availability of order types
across all forms of connectivity to the NMS Stock ATS and differences, if any, between the
availability of an order type across those forms of connectivity; (vii) whether an order type is
eligible for routing to other trading centers; and (viii) the circumstances under which order types
may be combined with a time-in-force or another order type, modified, replaced, canceled,
rejected, or removed from the NMS Stock ATS. 455 If the availability of order types and their
terms and conditions are not the same for all subscribers and persons, Part IV, Item 3(b) would
require the NMS Stock ATS to describe any differences. In addition, Part IV, Item 3(c) of Form
ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any requirements and handling procedures
for minimum order sizes, odd-lot orders, or mixed-lot orders. The NMS Stock ATS must also

455

Items 3(a)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv) and (vii) of proposed Form ATS-N provide further
requirements of what needs to be included in responding to these items. See discussion
under each item infra.

276

describe any differences if the requirements and handling procedures for minimum order sizes,
odd-lot orders, or mixed-lot orders are not the same for all subscribers and persons. 456
As discussed above, NMS Stock ATSs offer a wide range of order types and modifiers
and offer different minimum order size requirements.457 Order types, in particular, are a primary
means by which users of an NMS Stock ATS communicate their instructions for handling their
orders to the NMS Stock ATS. Moreover, order types can be complex and operate in various
ways, and the Commission is therefore proposing to request that NMS Stock ATSs provide the
level of detail set forth in subsections (i) through (viii) of Item 3(a). The Commission believes
that all market participants should have sufficient information about all aspects of the operations
of order types available on an NMS Stock ATS to understand how to use order types to achieve
their investing or trading objectives, as well as to understand how order types used by other
market participants could affect their trading interest. Item 3(a) would require a complete and
detailed description of the order types available on the NMS Stock ATS, their characteristics,
operations, and how they are handled to provide transparency to market participants and the
Commission. Subsection (i) of Item 3(a) would require that the NMS Stock ATS describe the
priority rules for each order type. The description would be required to include the order type’s
priority on the NMS Stock ATS upon order entry as well as any subsequent change to priority (if
applicable). Also, the NMS Stock ATS would need to describe whether an order type can
receive a new time stamp (such as, for example, in the case of order types that adjust price), and
such order type’s priority vis-à-vis other orders on the book due to changes in the NBBO or other
456

457

The Commission notes that a broker-dealer operator may have valid business reasons for
offering various order types to subscribers and the Commission is not proposing to limit
the ability for a broker-dealer operator to have such arrangements.
See supra Section III.B.

277

reference price. In addition, this subsection would also require a description of any instance in
which the order type could lose execution priority to a later arriving order at the same price.
Subsection (ii) of Item 3(a) would require that the NMS Stock ATS describe any
conditions for each order type. Such conditions would include: any price conditions, including
how the order type is ranked and how price conditions affect the rank and price at which it can
be executed; conditions on the display or non-display of an order; or conditions on the execution
or routing of orders.
Subsection (iii) of Item 3(a) would require that the NMS Stock ATS describe order types
designed not to remove liquidity (e.g., post-only orders). The NMS Stock ATS would need to
describe what occurs when such order is marketable against trading interest on the NMS Stock
ATS when received.
Subsection (iv) of Item 3(a) would require that the NMS Stock ATS describe order types
that adjust their price as changes to the order book occur (e.g., price-sliding orders or pegged
orders) or have a discretionary range. As part of a response, this description would be required
to include an order’s rank and price upon order entry and whether such prices or rank may
change based on the NBBO or other market conditions when using such an order type. In
addition, the description would have to include when the order type is executable and at what
price the execution would occur, and also whether the price at which the order type can be
executed ever changes. Also, if the order type can operate in different ways, the NMS Stock
ATS would need to explain the default operation of the order type.
Subsection (v) of Item 3(a) would require the NMS Stock ATS to describe the time-inforce instructions that can be used or not used with each order type.

278

Subsection (vi) of Item 3(a) would require a description of the availability of order types
across all forms of connectivity to the NMS Stock ATS and differences, if any, between the
availability of order types across those forms of connectivity. For example, if an NMS Stock
ATS offers certain order types to persons who connect through the broker-dealer operator, such
as through use of a SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm, as opposed to persons who
connect directly through a FIX connection, that difference in availability would need to be
described in response to this subsection.
Subsection (vii) of Item 3(a) would require a description of whether the order type is
eligible for routing to other trading centers. The response required by this item would be
required to include, if it is routable, whether an order type can be used with any routing services
offered.
Subsection (viii) of Item 3(a) would require the NMS Stock ATS to describe the
circumstances under which order types submitted to the NMS Stock ATS may be combined with
a time-in-force or another order type, modified, replaced, canceled, rejected, or removed from
the NMS Stock ATS. If an NMS Stock ATS allows a subscriber to combine separate order
types, or combine an order type with a time-in-force restriction, both of those instances would be
responsive to subsection (viii) of Item 3(a).
Part IV, Item 3(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to
describe any differences if the availability of its orders types and their terms and conditions are
not the same for all subscribers and persons.
Part IV, Item 3(c) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any requirements and handling procedures for minimum order sizes, odd-lot orders, or
mixed-lot orders. If the requirements and handling procedures for minimum order sizes, odd-lot
279

orders, or mixed-lot orders are not the same for all subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock ATS
would also be required to describe any differences. These would include, for example, any order
size requirements that may differ based on factors such as the type of subscriber or person that
uses the services of the NMS Stock ATS, or the type of order (e.g., if only certain subscribers or
persons are eligible to use that order type).
The Commission preliminarily believes that a detailed description of the characteristics
of the order types of an NMS Stock ATS would assist subscribers in better understanding how
their orders would function and interact with other orders on the NMS Stock ATS.458 It also
would allow market participants to see what order types could be used by other market
participants, which could affect the probability, timing, and quality of their own executions.
Moreover, the Commission preliminarily believes that requiring comprehensive disclosure of an
NMS Stock ATS’s order types on proposed Form ATS-N would allow market participants to
compare order types across NMS Stock ATSs and national securities exchanges. As a result, a
market participant would be better able to assess the availability of order types and whether their
characteristics would accomplish the market participant’s investing or trading objectives.
The Commission also preliminarily believes that the disclosures about the characteristics
and functions of order types would allow the Commission to better oversee NMS Stock ATSs,
and alert the Commission as to whether the function of a particular order type may violate the
federal securities laws or the rules or regulations thereunder, such as the requirement under Rule
458

See Consumer Federation of America Letter, supra note 188 and accompanying text
(stating the Commission should require all ATSs to disclose certain information about the
order types offered on the ATS); Liquidnet letter #1, supra note 171 and accompanying
text (stating institutional brokers, including institutional ATSs, should disclose the order
types offered).

280

611 of Regulation NMS that a trading center have policies and procedures reasonably designed
to prevent trade-throughs of protected quotations in NMS stocks.459 The Commission
preliminarily believes that the disclosures that would be required by Item 3(a) would help the
Commission discover a potential violation of the federal securities laws and rules or regulations
thereunder in a more expeditious manner than if the disclosures were not required. The
disclosures required by Item 3(a) would also facilitate the Commission’s comparison of how the
characteristics of order types were described to subscribers and how they operate in practice as
part of any examination of the NMS Stock ATS.
The Commission preliminarily believes this information would also advance the
Commission’s interest in the protection of investors by allowing subscribers to clearly see the
types of orders available to them, as well as potential counterparties, and any differences
between the order types, available among participants on the NMS Stock ATS.
As noted above, Part IV, Item 3(b) would require the NMS Stock ATS to describe any
differences if the availability of its order types and their terms and conditions are not the same
for all subscribers and persons. The Commission preliminarily believes that this information
would be important for a market participant to better assess whether other participants on the
NMS Stock ATS may receive advantageous or disadvantageous treatment as a result of the
ATS’s various order types and how that treatment may affect that market participant’s trading
interest. Information about any disparate treatment of investors also would be important for the
Commission as it monitors developments in the national market system.

459

See 17 CFR 242.611.

281

Part IV, Item 3(c) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any requirements and handling procedures for minimum order sizes, odd-lot orders, or
mixed-lot orders. The NMS Stock ATS would also be required to explain any differences if the
requirements and handling procedures for minimum order sizes, odd-lot orders, or mixed-lot
orders are not the same for all subscribers and persons. The information that would be required
by Item 3(c) is designed to facilitate the entry of orders by subscribers by providing information
on minimum order sizes, odd-lot orders, and mixed-lot orders. An explanation of how an NMS
Stock ATS’s requirements and conditions for minimum order sizes, odd-lot orders, and mixedlot orders differ among subscribers and persons would also provide a market participant with
information regarding how its trading interest would be handled vis-à-vis other market
participants. The information that would be required by Item 3(c) would also be useful to the
Commission’s monitoring of developments in market structure.
Request for Comment
306.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Items 3(a) through 3(c) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so,
what level of detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

307.

Do you believe Part IV, Items 3(a) through 3(c) of proposed Form ATS-N
captures the information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of
the NMS Stock ATS related to the types of orders that are entered to the NMS
Stock ATS, their characteristics, operations, and how they are handled on the
NMS Stock ATS? Please explain.

282

308.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Items 3(a)
through 3(c) of proposed Form ATS-N? Should the items be refined in any way?
If so, how? Please be specific.

309.

Do you believe the proposed requirement to disclose the information that would
be required by Part IV, Item 3(a) of proposed Form ATS-N could impact
innovation on NMS Stock ATSs? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

310.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the types of orders that are entered to the NMS Stock
ATS, their characteristics, operations, and how they are handled on the NMS
Stock ATS? If so, describe such information and explain whether, and if so why,
such information should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N.
Please support your arguments.

311.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Items
3(a) through 3(c) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not
be required to disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business
reasons, trade secrets, burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and
why? Please support your arguments.

312.

Do you believe there are any other aspects of order types that an NMS Stock ATS
should be required to disclose in a subpart to Part IV, Item 3(a) of proposed Form
ATS-N that have not been identified? If so, what? Do you believe there are other
order types about which the Commission should ask specifically? If so, what
order types? Please explain in detail.
283

313.

Should the Commission require greater specificity regarding the operation of
order types? If so, why and how? If not, why not? Please support your
arguments.

314.

Do you believe that information relating to available order types would help
market participants in determining the best trading venue for their orders? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments.

315.

Do you believe that Items 3(a) through 3(c) of Part IV of proposed Form ATS-N
would advance the Commission’s interest in the protection of investors by
allowing market participants to consider the types of orders available to them, as
well as potential counterparties, and any differences between the order types,
modifiers, and size requirements available among participants on the NMS Stock
ATS? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

316.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Items 3(a) through 3(c) of proposed
Form ATS-N other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so,
how else could this information be obtained and would such alternative means be
preferable to the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Items 3(a) through 3(c)?

317.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Items 3(a) through 3(c) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed
disclosures in Part IV, Items 3(a) through 3(c) of proposed Form ATS-N require
an NMS Stock ATS to reveal too much (or not enough) information about its
structure and operations? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

284

318.

Do you believe that Part IV, Item 3(a) of proposed Form ATS-N should require a
description of priority for each order type? Why or why not? Please support your
answer.

319.

Do you believe that Part IV, Item 3(a) of proposed Form ATS-N should require a
description of any conditions for each order type? Why or why not? Please
support your answer.

320.

Do you believe that Part IV, Item 3(a) of proposed Form ATS-N should require a
description of order types designed not to remove liquidity? Why or why not?
Please support your answer.

321.

Do you believe that Part IV, Item 3(a) of proposed Form ATS-N should require a
description of order types that adjust their price as changes to the order book
occur or have a discretionary range? Why or why not? Please support your
answer.

322.

Do you believe that Part IV, Item 3(a) of proposed Form ATS-N should require a
description of the time-in-force instructions for each order type? Why or why
not? Please support your answer.

323.

Do you believe that Part IV, Item 3(a) of proposed Form ATS-N should require a
description of the availability of order types across all forms of connectivity to the
NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your answer.

324.

Do you believe that Part IV, Item 3(a) of proposed Form ATS-N should require a
description of whether order types are eligible for routing to other trading centers?
Why or why not? Please support your answer.

285

325.

Do you believe that Part IV, Item 3(a) of proposed Form ATS-N should require a
description of the circumstances under which order types may be combined with a
time-in-force or another order type, modified, replaced, canceled, rejected, or
removed from the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? Please support your
answer.

Part IV, Item 3(d) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any messages sent to or received by the NMS Stock ATS indicating trading interest
(e.g., IOIs, actionable IOIs, or conditional orders), including information contained in the
message, the means under which messages are transmitted, the circumstances in which messages
are transmitted (e.g., automatically by the NMS Stock ATS or upon the subscriber’s request),
and the circumstances by which they may result in an execution on the NMS Stock ATS. If the
terms and conditions regarding these messages, indications of interest, and conditional orders are
not the same for all subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock ATS would be required describe
any differences.
This item is designed to provide specific information about the use of IOIs, actionable
IOIs, conditional orders, and similar functionalities on the NMS Stock ATS. Based on the
Commission’s experience, IOIs are used by NMS Stock ATSs to convey trading interest
available on those trading centers. Some NMS Stock ATSs also transmit “actionable” IOIs to
selected market participants for the purpose of attracting contra-side order flow to the ATS. In
general, an actionable IOI is an IOI containing enough information to effectively alert the
recipient about the details of the NMS Stock ATS’s trading interest in a security. While an
actionable IOI may not explicitly specify the price and/or size of the trading interest, the practical
context in which it is submitted alerts the recipient about the side (buy or sell), size (minimum of
286

a round lot of trading interest), and price (at or better than the NBBO, depending on the side of
the order).
Conditional orders are also messages indicating a trading interest on a trading venue, and
conditional orders generally function in a similar manner to IOIs. A conditional order may
contain the same attributes as other order types when a subscriber enters it onto the trading venue
(e.g., side, price, and size), but NMS Stock ATSs will generally not transmit those details to
other subscribers or market participants. Rather, the NMS Stock ATS will tentatively match the
conditional order with contra side interest and then alert the subscriber that entered the
conditional order of the potential match. That subscriber may then either accept or decline the
execution (i.e., “firm up” the conditional order). Based on Commission experience, NMS Stock
ATSs typically only permit conditional orders to execute against other conditional orders, but
some ATSs allow conditional orders to interact with other order types.
The Commission preliminarily believes that understanding the manner in which NMS
Stock ATSs use IOIs, actionable IOIs, conditional orders, and similar functionalities could be
useful to market participants because it could impact the potential execution of a subscriber’s
trading interest. Also, because an actionable IOI conveys substantial information, the potential
for information leakage could be a concern to NMS Stock ATS subscribers using IOIs,
particularly when they are seeking to execute large-sized orders. In the Commission’s
experience, NMS Stock ATSs generally send IOIs and other conditional orders only to certain
market participants. Accordingly, the disclosures that would be required by Item 3(d) are
designed to help market participants better evaluate whether messages indicating trading interest
(including IOIs, actionable IOIs, and conditional orders) are equally available to them as

287

compared to other market participants and would be appropriate tools to accomplish their
investing or trading objectives.
Request for Comment
326.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 3(d) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

327.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 3(d) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to any messages sent to or received by the NMS Stock ATS
indicating trading interest? Please explain.

328.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 3(d) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

329.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding messages indicating trading interest (e.g., IOIs,
actionable IOIs, or conditional orders)? If so, describe such information and
explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

330.

Do you believe there are other types of messages that communicate trading
interest that the Commission should specifically cite as examples in Part IV, Item
3(d) of proposed Form ATS-N? If so, what are those message types? Please
provide a detailed explanation of each additional type of message and support
your arguments as to each.
288

331.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
3(d) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? If so, what information and why? Please support
your arguments.

332.

Do you believe that there is potential concern for information leakage from the
use of IOIs, particularly actionable IOIs on NMS Stock ATSs? If so, would
disclosure about their operation on proposed Form ATS-N be an appropriate
manner in which to mitigate any concern? If not, why not? Please support your
arguments.

333.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 3(d) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 3(d) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

334.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 3(d) of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 3(d)?

D. Connectivity, Order Entry, and Co-location
Part IV Item 4(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to
describe the means by which subscribers or other persons connect to the NMS Stock ATS and
289

enter orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., directly, through a Financial
Information eXchange (“FIX”) connection to the ATS, or indirectly, through the broker-dealer
operator’s SOR, or any intermediate functionality, algorithm, or sales desk). This item also
would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any differences if the terms and conditions for
connecting and entering orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS are not the same
for all subscribers and persons.
Based on Commission experience reviewing Forms ATS, subscribers send orders or other
trading interest to the NMS Stock ATS both directly and indirectly. A direct method of sending
orders or other trading interest to an ATS that trades NMS stocks, for example, may include the
use of the FIX Protocol. The FIX Protocol allows subscribers to enter orders or other trading
interest into the ATS without an intermediary. To the extent that a subscriber connects to the
NMS Stock ATS by way of a FIX connection and an order sent by that subscriber passes through
an intermediate application or functionality on its way to the NMS Stock ATS, the NMS Stock
ATS should identify the application or functionality and provide a description of its purpose. 460
One example of an indirect method of sending orders or other trading interest to an NMS Stock
ATS is sending orders or other trading interest to the broker-dealer operator, which may then use
its SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm to send such orders or other trading interest to the
NMS Stock ATS.
The disclosures regarding the direct or indirect means of order entry could be important
to subscribers because they would provide information about the possible methods to reach the
460

The Commission notes that, in this example, given that the intermediate application or
functionality has access to a subscriber’s order information, the NMS Stock ATS should
take appropriate measures to protect the confidentiality of such information pursuant to
Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS.

290

NMS Stock ATS and applicable system requirements necessary to send orders or other trading
interest to the NMS Stock ATS. This information would also alert subscribers to the NMS Stock
ATS as to whether trading interest can be entered on the NMS Stock ATS through the brokerdealer operator, which would allow subscribers to assess any potential advantages that orders
sent through the broker-dealer operator may have with respect to other subscribers on the NMS
Stock ATS.461 The Commission would find the information required by this item useful to
understanding how trading interest moves from persons to possible trading centers and in
evaluating any potential conflicts of interest presented between the broker-dealer operator and
the NMS Stock ATS in how orders are entered onto the NMS Stock ATS.
The disclosure of the information required for order entry on the NMS Stock ATS, such
as limit price, size, and/or side of the market, would inform all subscribers to the NMS Stock
ATS about how to transmit orders or other trading interest to the NMS Stock ATS. The
Commission preliminarily believes that understanding this information may expedite the order
entry process of subscribers. The Commission, as part of its monitoring of developments in
market structure, also could use this disclosure to better understand what information allows for
the interaction of trading interest.
The Commission preliminarily believes that requiring NMS Stock ATSs to disclose any
differences if the terms and conditions for connecting and entering orders or other trading
interest on the NMS Stock ATS are not the same for all subscribers and persons would allow
market participants to source the various order entry procedures offered by NMS Stock ATSs as

461

But see supra notes 92-95 and 427-429 and accompanying text (discussing the fair access
requirements of Regulation ATS).

291

part of evaluating an NMS Stock ATS as a potential destination for them to route their orders for
execution.
Request for Comment
335.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 4(a) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

336.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 4(a) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to the means by which subscribers or other persons connect to
the NMS Stock ATS and enter orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock
ATS? Please explain.

337.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 4(a) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

338.

What are the direct and indirect means through which subscribers and other
persons can send orders or other trading interest to the NMS Stock ATS? Do you
believe there any means for which the Commission should specifically request
information in Part IV, Item 4(a) of proposed Form ATS-N? If so, please explain
how those means to send orders or other trading interest are used by subscribers
and other persons.

339.

Do you believe there are any methods of sending orders or other trading interest
to NMS Stock ATSs that are more advantageous than others? If so, please

292

explain how such methods provide advantages to subscribers or other persons
who use them. Should those advantages, if any, be specifically disclosed?
340.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the means by which subscribers can send orders or
other trading interest to the NMS Stock ATS? If so, describe such information
and explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

341.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
4(a) of Proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

342.

Do you believe that the information that would be required by Part IV, Item 4(a)
of proposed Form ATS-N could be important to market participants in assessing
any potential advantages that orders sent through the broker-dealer operator may
have over other market participants on the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

343.

Do you believe that the information that would be required by Part IV, Item 4(a)
of proposed Form ATS-N would be important to market participants when
deciding whether to trade on an NMS Stock ATS and would assist them in
devising appropriate trading strategies to help accomplish their investing or
trading objectives? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

344.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 4(a) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
293

Part IV, Item 4(a) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.
345.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 4(a) of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 4(a)?

Part IV Item 4(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require that the NMS Stock ATS
describe any co-location services or any other means by which any subscriber or other persons
may enhance the speed by which to send or receive orders, trading interest, or messages to or
from the NMS Stock ATS and the terms and conditions of co-location services. If the terms and
conditions of the co-location services are not the same for all subscribers and persons, Part IV,
Item 4(b) would require the NMS Stock ATS to describe any differences. Co-location is the
placement of a user’s systems in close physical proximity to the trading and execution system of
a trading venue to reduce latency and enhance speed. The description of co-location services
that could enhance the speed of orders and messages and the terms and conditions thereof would
allow subscribers to evaluate these services and determine whether they would like to subscribe
to such services if available. Moreover, subscribers and potential subscribers would know that
others can use a co-location service even if they determine not to use it themselves, which would

294

assist them in devising appropriate trading strategies if they choose to participate. 462 For
instance, a subscriber could choose certain types of orders or trading strategies with the
knowledge that other subscribers have enhanced speeds for submitting trading interest through
the use of the NMS Stock ATS’s connectivity or co-location services.
The proposed requirement that the NMS Stock ATS describe any differences in the terms
and conditions of an NMS Stock ATS’s co-location services among subscribers or other persons
also could help inform the trading strategies chosen by subscribers. Information on such
connectivity and co-location options would further the Commission’s understanding of the
dynamics of the markets and overall market structure for NMS stocks. In addition, this
information would allow the Commission to evaluate whether the NMS Stock ATS is
unreasonably prohibiting or limiting any person with respect to the access to services offered by
the NMS Stock ATS in contravention of Rule 301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS for those NMS Stock
ATSs that have surpassed the applicable trading volume thresholds.
Request for Comment
346.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 4(b) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

347.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 4(b) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS

462

See SIFMA letter #1, supra note 194 and accompanying text (stating its belief that
“added disclosure about co-location and other market access arrangements would be
beneficial to market participants”); Morgan Stanley letter, supra note 197 and
accompanying text (stating that it received questions from customers specific to dark
pools related to the co-location of servers).

295

Stock ATS related to co-location services or any other means by which any
subscriber or other persons may enhance the speed by which to send or receive
orders, trading interest, or messages to or from the NMS Stock ATS? Please
explain.
348.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 4(b) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

349.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding co-location services by which a subscriber may
enhance the speed that it may submit orders or send and receive messages? If so,
describe such information and explain whether, and if so why, such information
should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support
your arguments.

350.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
4(b) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

351.

Do believe that the information that would be required by Part IV, Item 4(b) of
proposed Form ATS-N would be useful to market participants when deciding
whether to trade on an NMS Stock ATS and would assist them in devising
appropriate trading strategies to help accomplish their investing or trading
objectives? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

296

352.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 4(b) of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 4(b)?

353.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 4(b) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 4(b) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

E. Segmentation of Order Flow and Notice About Segmentation
Part IV, Item 5(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any segmentation of orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g.,
classification by type of participant, source, nature of trading activity). Part IV, Item 5(a) would
also require the NMS Stock ATS to describe the segmented categories, the criteria used to
segment these categories, and procedures for determining, evaluating, and changing segmented
categories. If the segmented categories, the criteria used to segment these categories, and any
procedures for determining, evaluating or changing segmented categories are not the same for all
subscribers and persons, this item would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any differences.
Based on Commission experience, some NMS Stock ATSs segment order flow entered
on the NMS Stock ATS according to various categories and allow subscribers to select the type
of persons or order flow they want to trade or not trade against. An NMS Stock ATS may
segment trading interest by type of participant (e.g., buy-side or sell-side firms, proprietary
297

trading firms, agency-only firms, firms above or below certain assets under management
thresholds). For example, buy-side or institutional order flow may seek to only trade against
other buy-side or institutional order flow, or may seek to avoid trading against proprietary
trading firms or so-called high frequency trading firms. When segmenting by source, an NMS
Stock ATS may look to the underlying source of the trading interest in the case of trading
interest that is intermediated, such as the trading interest of retail customers. Some NMS Stock
ATSs segment by the nature of the trading activity, which could include segmenting by patterns
of behavior, time horizons of traders, or the passivity or aggressiveness of trading strategies.
NMS Stock ATSs might elect to use some combination of these criteria or other criteria
altogether.
This item would require that an NMS Stock ATS disclose the segmented categories, the
criteria used to segment these categories, and procedures for determining, evaluating, and
changing segmented categories. This would include, for example, any modification or
overriding of an existing segmented category and a description of how existing subscribers in the
segmented category would be handled and notified. This item would provide market participants
with an understanding of the categories of order flow or types of market participants with which
they may interact and allow them to both assess the consistency of a segmented group and
determine whether the manner in which the trading interest is segmented comports with its views
of how certain trading interest should be categorized. Disclosure of the procedures and criteria
used to segment categories would allow a market participant to determine whether its view of
what constitutes certain trading interest it wants to seek or avoid is classified in the same way by
the NMS Stock ATS. For example, a subscriber may find it useful to understand the metrics or
criteria an NMS Stock ATS uses to categorize high frequency trading firms so that it can
298

compare the criteria used by the NMS Stock ATS with its view of what constitutes a high
frequency trading firm, and thus be able to successfully trade against or avoid such trading
interest. Similarly, information regarding the procedures applicable to trading among segmented
categories would allow market participants to evaluate whether they can successfully trade
against or avoid the segments of trading interest they desire.
In addition, disclosure of any differences in the segmentation among participants would
allow subscribers to more clearly note if certain persons are, for instance, not subject to
segmentation in the same way as other persons, or not subject to segmentation at all and able to
trade against all order flow. All participants would have access to the same information as to
how the NMS Stock ATS segments order flow, and whether the segmentation criteria are applied
by the NMS Stock ATS uniformly. 463 These disclosures would help the Commission understand
the categories and manner in which persons and order flow (or both) are segmented across NMS
Stock ATSs and could aid the Commission in its oversight of the markets including, for example,
its evaluation of whether segmentation could facilitate or hinder market participants from
achieving their investing or trading objectives. The Commission is not proposing to prohibit
NMS Stock ATSs from segmenting their order flow; 464 the Commission is instead proposing

463

See Blackrock letter, supra note 186 and accompanying text (stating mandatory ATS
disclosure should include greater detail on how the platform matches orders between
client segments); Consumer Federation of America letter, supra note 187 and
accompanying text (stating that Form ATS should require ATSs to provide “critical
details about . . . segmentation” because “the information will allow market participants .
. . to assess whether an ATS’s terms of access and service are such that it makes sense to
trade on that venue”).

464

However, an ATS that crossed the fair access threshold and wished to segment its order
flow could do so only in accordance with the fair access provisions of existing Rule
301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS.

299

only that an NMS Stock ATS disclose to market participants and the Commission how they
segment their order flow.
Request for Comment
354.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 5(a) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

355.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 5(a) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to segmentation of orders or other trading interest on the NMS
Stock ATS? Please explain.

356.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 5(a) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

357.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding segmentation of order flow on the NMS Stock ATS?
If so, describe such information and explain whether, and if so why, such
information should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N.
Please support your arguments.

358.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
5(a) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

300

359.

Do you believe there are any forms or types of order segmentation that would not
be captured by Part IV, Item 5(a) of proposed Form ATS-N or should be
addressed separately? If so, please provide a detailed explanation of how orders
are segmented under such functionalities on NMS Stock ATSs.

360.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 5(a) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 5(a) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

361.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 5(a) of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 5(a)?

Part IV, Item 5(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to state
whether the NMS Stock ATS informs subscribers or persons about the segmentation category
that a subscriber or a person is assigned and to describe any notice provided to subscribers or
persons about the segmentation category that they are assigned and the segmentation identified
in Part IV, Item 5(a), including the content of any notice and the means by which any notice is
communicated. Also, an NMS Stock ATS would be required to describe any differences if the
notice is not the same for all subscribers and persons. As discussed above, an NMS Stock ATS
can elect to segment its order flow entered on the NMS Stock ATS according to various
categories and allow subscribers and other persons to select the type of persons or order flow
301

they want to trade or not trade against. Based on the experience of the Commission and its staff,
ATSs provide subscribers with limited information about how they segment order flow and do
not always inform subscribers about the categories into which they are segmented. A market
participant that is unaware of its segmented category may not know about the order flow it is
trading against, and therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that market participants
trading on an NMS Stock ATS would want to know about their assigned segmented categories
and understand how those categories were determined. 465 The category into which a subscriber
is placed also informs its decision of where to trade because it could affect the contra-side
trading interest available to them to trade against. Item 5(b) is therefore designed to inform
market participants about the potential information that the NMS Stock ATS may provide to
inform them about such segmentation, particularly with respect to whether the NMS Stock ATS
informs subscribers about how it assigns a participant to a segmented category, as well as any
differences in the notice provided to subscribers. The Commission preliminarily believes that
market participants would find it useful to understand how they will be alerted about
segmentation on an NMS Stock ATS before deciding whether or not to subscribe to the NMS
Stock ATS.
Request for Comment
362.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 5(b) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

465

See supra notes 171, 186, 198, 199 and accompanying text.

302

363.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 5(b) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to informing subscribers or persons about the segmentation
category that a subscriber or a person is assigned? Please explain.

364.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 5(b) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

365.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
5(b) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

366.

Do you believe there is any specific information that the Commission should
require NMS Stock ATSs to disclose to each subscriber with regard to how it
segments each subscriber’s orders? If so, explain what information and why.
Please support your arguments.

367.

Do you believe transparency with respect to how an NMS Stock ATS notifies
subscribers regarding how those subscribers’ trading interests are segmented is
useful to market participants when deciding whether to trade on the NMS Stock
ATS and would assist them in devising appropriate trading strategies to help
accomplish their investing or trading objectives? If not, why? Please support
your arguments.

368.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 5(b) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
303

Part IV, Item 5(b) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.
369.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 5(b) of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 5(b)?

Part IV, Item 5(c) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any means and the circumstances by which a subscriber, the broker-dealer operator, or
any of its affiliates may designate an order or trading interest submitted to the NMS Stock ATS
to interact or not to interact with specific orders, trading interest, or persons on the NMS Stock
ATS (e.g., designating an order or trading interest to be executed against a specific subscriber)
and how such designations affect order priority and interaction. Part IV, Item 5(c) would require
the NMS Stock ATS to describe any means by which subscribers can seek or avoid certain
executions against certain orders, persons, or trading interest. In response to this item, an NMS
Stock ATS would be required to disclose, for example, any circumstances by which an NMS
Stock ATS allows persons to designate an order submitted to the NMS Stock ATS to interact
with specific orders resting on the NMS Stock ATS. The NMS Stock ATS would need to
describe this process and how such order preferencing works with other rules governing order
priority and interaction. The response to this item also would also be required to include a
description of any means by which a subscriber could avoid executing against any order, person,
or trading interest. For instance, an NMS Stock ATS would need to describe any mechanisms by
304

which a person could avoid executing against its own orders or orders of its affiliates on the
NMS Stock ATS.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is important for market participants to
understand whether – and how – they may designate their orders or other trading interest to avoid
interacting with specific orders, trading interest, or persons on an NMS Stock ATS. The
Commission preliminarily believes that this understanding would help market participants better
evaluate the NMS Stock ATS as a potential trading venue. For instance, if a market participant
seeks to avoid interacting with an order type that is commonly employed as part of certain
trading strategies, the Commission preliminarily believes that the disclosures required under Item
5(c) would better enable that market participant to determine whether submitting order flow to a
particular NMS Stock ATS would allow it to carry out its own trading strategy. Similarly, if a
market participant would find it desirable to be able to designate an order submitted to the NMS
Stock ATS to interact with specific orders resting on an NMS Stock ATS’s order book, the
Commission preliminarily believes that the information required by Item 5(c) would inform that
market participant whether – and how – it can do so on a particular NMS Stock ATS, thereby
assisting that market participant when it evaluates that NMS Stock ATS as a potential trading
venue.
Request for Comment
370.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 5(c) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

371.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 5(c) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
305

Stock ATS related to the means and the circumstances by which a subscriber, the
broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates may designate an order or trading
interest submitted to the NMS Stock ATS to interact or not to interact with
specific orders, trading interest, or persons on the NMS Stock ATS? Please
explain.
372.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the means and the circumstances by which a
subscriber, the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates may designate an
order or trading interest submitted to the NMS Stock ATS to interact or not to
interact with specific orders, trading interest, or persons on the NMS Stock ATS?
If so, describe such information and explain whether, and if so why, such
information should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N.
Please support your arguments.

373.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 5(c) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

374.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
5(c) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

375.

Should the requirement to describe the means by which persons, orders, or trading
interest may be sought or avoided on an NMS Stock ATS be refined in any way?
Please be specific.
306

376.

Does the process for seeking or avoiding specific orders, persons, or trading
interest raise any other market structure issues or concerns that the Commission
should consider? Please be specific.

377.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 5(c) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 5(c) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

378.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 5(c) of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 5(c)?

F. Display of Order and Trading Interest
Part IV, Item 6(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require that an NMS Stock ATS
describe any means and circumstances by which orders or other trading interest on the NMS
Stock ATS are displayed or made known outside the NMS Stock ATS and the information about
the orders and trading interest that are displayed. Also, if the display of orders or other trading
interest is not the same for all subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to
describe any differences. Part IV, Item 6(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would also require the
NMS Stock ATS to identify the subscriber(s) or person(s) (in the case of a natural person, to
identify only the position or title) to whom the orders and trading interest are displayed or
otherwise made known.
307

As discussed more fully above, 466 most NMS Stock ATSs do not publicly display
quotation data and are commonly referred to as “dark pools.” The Commission preliminarily
believes that market participants generally are very sensitive to precisely how and when their
trading interest is displayed or otherwise made known outside the NMS Stock ATS. The
Commission is concerned that market participants currently may not know the extent to which
their trading interest sent to ATSs is displayed outside those ATSs. Accordingly, for any NMS
Stock ATSs that display some or all of the trading interest on their systems, Part IV, Item 6 of
proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to identify the subscriber(s) or
person(s) to whom orders or other trading interest information is displayed or otherwise made
known, the means and circumstances by which orders or other trading interest are displayed or
made known, and the contents of that information. Because NMS Stock ATSs that are also
ECNs may differ in how and where orders or other trading interest are displayed, the
Commission preliminarily believes this item would clarify for market participants and the
Commission exactly how such display may occur. In addition, an NMS Stock ATS would need
to disclose arrangements, whether formal or informal (oral or written) to the extent they exist,
with third parties to display the NMS Stock ATS’s trading interest outside of the NMS Stock
ATS, such as IOIs from the NMS Stock ATS’s subscribers being displayed on vendor systems,
or arrangements with third parties to transmit IOIs between subscribers.
The Commission preliminarily believes that when an NMS Stock ATS sends electronic
messages outside of the NMS Stock ATS that expose the presence of orders or other trading
interest on the NMS Stock ATS, it is displaying or making known orders or other trading interest
466

See supra note 123 and accompanying text.

308

on the NMS Stock ATS. For instance, an NMS Stock ATS may send to subscribers or other
persons a direct data feed from the NMS Stock ATS that contains real-time information about
current quotes, orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS. Accordingly, it would be
responsive to this item for the NMS Stock ATS to disclose the circumstances under which the
NMS Stock ATS would send these messages, the persons that received them, and the information
contained in the messages, including the symbol or any other information relating to trading
interest on the NMS Stock ATS. The NMS Stock ATS would need to disclose the information
required by this item, including the exact content of the information, such as symbol, price, size,
attribution, or any other information made known. The Commission preliminarily believes that
disclosures in response to this item are important because the information disclosed would
provide market participants with advance notice of the potential display of their orders or other
trading interest outside of the NMS Stock ATS.467 The Commission preliminarily believes that
market participants, whose trading strategies are sensitive to how and to whom their orders and
trading interest are displayed, would use the information disclosed under Item 6 to evaluate
whether routing orders to a particular NMS Stock ATS would be consistent with their respective
strategies.

467

See Morgan Stanley letter, supra note 197 and accompanying text (stating customers
questioned it about whether its dark pool is truly dark); Bloomberg Tradebook letter,
supra note 190 and accompanying text (recommending that the Commission ask ATSs to
complete a questionnaire that would include questions relating to the sharing of orders or
order information with affiliates or other trading venues by the ATS).

309

Request for Comment
379.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 6 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific

380.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
related to the means and circumstances by which orders or other trading interest
on the NMS Stock ATS are displayed or made known outside the NMS Stock
ATS and the information about the orders and trading interest that are displayed?
Please explain.

381.

What are the means through which NMS Stock ATSs currently display or make
known trading interest? Do you believe any of these means raise any concerns?
If so, why? Please support your arguments. Do you believe that Part IV, Item 6
of proposed Form ATS-N would mitigate any of those concerns through the
disclosure of responsive information? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

382.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 6 of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

383.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock
ATS that are displayed or otherwise made known outside the NMS Stock ATS?
If so, describe such information and explain whether, and if so why, such
310

information should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N.
Please support your arguments.
384.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item 6
of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

385.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

386.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 6?

G. Trading Services
Part IV, Item 7(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe the means or facilities used by the NMS Stock ATS to bring together the orders of
multiple buyers and sellers, including the structure of the market (e.g., crossing system, auction
market, limit order matching book). If the use of these means or facilities are not the same for all
subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock ATS would also be required to describe any differences.

311

This item is primarily designed to inform market participants and the Commission about
an NMS Stock ATS’s market and the facilities and mechanisms that it uses to match
counterparties. Part IV, Item 7(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require a description, with
specificity, of the facilities and mechanisms into which subscribers enter orders and how orders
entered into these facilities and mechanisms would interact. The Commission has previously
explained that a trading center brings together orders when orders entered into the system for a
given security have the opportunity to interact with other orders entered into the system for the
same security. 468 For instance, a trading center brings together orders if it displays, or otherwise
represents, trading interests entered on the system, such as a consolidated quote screen, to system
users. 469 Furthermore, a trading center also brings together orders if it receives subscribers’
orders centrally for future processing and execution, such as part of a limit order matching book
that allows subscribers to display buy and sell orders in particular securities and to obtain
execution against matching orders contemporaneously entered or stored in the system. 470
Additionally, as explained above, to qualify for the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption from the
statutory definition of “exchange,” an ATS must bring together the orders of multiple buyers and
sellers. 471
468

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70849.

469

See id.

470

See id.

471

See id. The Commission emphasized in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release that the
mere interpositioning of a designated counterparty as riskless principal for settlement
purposes after the purchasing and selling counterparties to a trade have been matched
would not, by itself, mean that the system does not have multiple buyers and sellers. See
id. Additionally, systems in which there is only a single seller, such as systems that
permit issuers to sell their own securities to investors, would not be included within Rule
3b-16. See id.

312

Based on Commission experience, ATSs that trade NMS stocks use various types of
trading mechanisms. For example, many ATSs bring together multiple buyers and sellers using
limit order matching systems. Other ATSs use crossing mechanisms that allow participants to
enter unpriced orders to buy and sell securities, with the ATS’s system crossing orders at
specified times at a price derived from another market. 472 Some ATSs use an auction
mechanism that matches multiple buyers and sellers by first pausing execution in a certain
security for a set amount of time, during which the ATS’s system seeks out and/or concentrates
liquidity for the auction; after the trading pause, orders will execute at either a single auction
price or according to the priority rules for the auction’s execution. Furthermore, some ATSs use
a blotter scraping functionality, which may inform the ATS’s system about the orders placed on
a participant’s order management system, but not yet entered into the ATS; the ATS or brokerdealer operator oftentimes can automatically generate those orders and enter them into the ATS
on behalf of the subscriber, in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions, when certain
contra-side trading interest exists in the ATS.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the disclosures required under Part IV, Item
7(a) would be useful to market participants when evaluating whether or not to route orders to a
particular NMS Stock ATS. At times, market participants may route orders to a trading venue
with certain characteristics to accomplish a particular trading strategy. For instance, a market
participant aiming to execute a block transaction may seek out a trading platform that operates a
block crossing network with specialized size discovery mechanisms and controls for information
leakage. At the same time, a different market participant may seek to use an NMS Stock ATS’s
472

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70849 n.37.

313

auction function if that market participant believes the auction process would provide the best
opportunity for price discovery or price improvement. Accordingly, the Commission
preliminarily believes that disclosure of the information that would be required under Item 7(a)
of proposed Form ATS-N would better enable market participants to evaluate an NMS Stock
ATS as a potential destination for them to route their orders. In addition, this information also
would assist the Commission to fully evaluate the facilities and mechanisms that consist of the
NMS Stock ATS and whether an NMS Stock ATS meets the requirements of Rule 3b-16 that it
is bringing together the orders for securities of multiple buyers and sellers. 473
Request for Comment
387.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 7(a) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

388.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 7(a) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to the means or facilities used by the NMS Stock ATS to bring
together the orders of multiple buyers and sellers, including the structure of the
market? Please explain.

389.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 7(a) of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

473

See 17 CFR 240.3b-16(a)(1).

314

390.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the means or facilities used by the NMS Stock ATS
to bring together the orders of multiple buyers and sellers? If so, describe such
information and explain whether, and if so why, such information should be
required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your
arguments.

391.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
7(a) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

392.

Are there particular means or facilities for bringing together the orders of multiple
buyers and sellers on which the Commission should request information
specifically that is not included as a component under Part IV, item 7(a) of
proposed Form ATS-N?

393.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 7(a) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 7(a) of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

394.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 7(a) of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could

315

this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 7(a)?
Part IV, Item 7(b) of Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe the
established, non-discretionary methods that dictate the terms of trading among multiple buyers
and sellers on the facilities of the NMS Stock ATS, including rules and procedures governing the
priority, pricing methodologies, allocation, matching, and execution of orders and other trading
interest. If these rules and procedures are not the same for all subscribers and persons, the NMS
Stock ATS would be required to describe any differences.
Part IV, Item 7(b) of proposed Form ATS-N is primarily designed to inform market
participants about how orders interact on an NMS Stock ATS upon being entered into the
system. Item 7(b) would require a description, with specificity, of all rules and procedures
relevant to order interaction and execution, such as those addressing order priority, pricing
methodologies, allocation, matching, and execution of orders and other trading interest. The
Commission previously explained in the Regulation ATS Adopting Release that use of
established, non-discretionary methods could include operation of a trading facility or the setting
of rules governing the trading of subscribers. 474 For example, the Commission considers the use
of an algorithm by an electronic trading system, which sets trading procedures and priorities, to
be a trading facility that uses established, non-discretionary methods. 475 Similarly, the

474

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70851-52.

475

See id. at 70851.

316

Commission has previously stated that rules imposing execution priorities, such as time and price
priority rules, would be “established, non-discretionary methods.” 476
Based on Commission experience, NMS Stocks ATSs employ various terms and
conditions under which orders interact and match. As noted above, some NMS Stock ATSs may
offer price-time priority to determine how to match orders (potentially with various exceptions),
while other NMS Stock ATSs may offer midpoint-only matching with time priority. 477 Some
NMS Stock ATSs might also take into account other factors to determine priority. For example,
an NMS Stock ATS may assign either a lower or higher priority to an order entered by a
subscriber in a certain class (e.g., orders of proprietary traders or retail investors) or routed from
a particular source (e.g., orders routed by the broker-dealer operator’s SOR (or similar
functionality) or algorithm) when compared to an equally priced order entered by a different
subscriber or via a different source. Furthermore, in the Commission’s experience, an NMS
Stock ATS might elect to apply different priority rules for matching conditional orders than it
does for matching other order types.
Part IV, Item 7(c) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any trading procedures related to price protection mechanisms, short sales, lockedcrossed markets, the handling of execution errors, time-stamping of orders and executions, or
price improvement functionality. If the trading procedures are not the same for all subscribers
and persons, the NMS Stock ATS would also be required to describe any differences. Some
ATSs that trade NMS stocks apply various methods to determine an execution price based on the

476

See id. at 70852.

477

See supra Section III.B.

317

circumstances of the match. For example, an ATS may price an execution of a midpoint pegged
order with a limit or market order at the midpoint of the NBBO. An ATS executing a match of
two limit orders, or a limit and market order, might price the execution at or within the NBBO,
with the possibility of offering the limit order(s) price improvement. On the other hand, an ATS
that operates a block crossing network, with specialized size discovery mechanisms, might
calculate a volume-weighted average price after the final size of the execution has been
determined.
In the Commission’s experience, NMS Stock ATSs have also adopted other trading
procedures governing the execution of orders, which the NMS Stock ATS would be required to
explain under Part IV, Item 7(c) of proposed Form ATS-N. For instance, an NMS Stock ATS
might elect to use price protections to re-price orders or prevent their execution under certain
circumstances, such as Limit Up Limit Down price bands pursuant to the National Market
System Plan to Address Extraordinary Market Volatility (“LULD Plan”). 478 An NMS Stock
ATS might also permit short sales to be executed on its system and would thus be required to
configure its system to comply with federal securities laws related to short sales, including
Regulation SHO. 479 Additionally, an NMS Stock ATS could have rules and procedures
governing and/or precluding the execution of orders in a locked or crossed market. If an NMS

478

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 67091 (May 31, 2012), 77 FR 33498 (June 6,
2012) (File No. 4-631) (“LULD Approval Order”). The registered national securities
exchanges and FINRA filed the LULD Plan to create a market-wide limit up-limit down
mechanism to address extraordinary market volatility in NMS Stocks. See id. at 33500.
The Plan sets forth procedures that provide for market-wide limit up-limit down
requirements that would be designed to prevent trades in individual NMS Stocks from
occurring outside of the specified price bands. See id.

479

17 CFR 242.200 through 242.204.

318

Stock ATS has any procedures governing the handling of execution errors, such as the use of an
error account by the NMS Stock ATS, it would be required to explain those procedures in Item
7(c).
Furthermore, under Part IV, Item 7(c) of proposed Form ATS-N, an NMS Stock ATS
would also be required to describe any protocols for time-stamping orders and executions to
ensure compliance with the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder and any
execution procedures related to price improvement. For example, if an NMS Stock ATS has
procedures to reprice orders under its price protection mechanisms, to reprice short sale orders to
ensure compliance with Regulation SHO, or to reprice orders due to price-sliding order types
(such as certain pegged order types), it would be required to explain when it creates new
timestamps for such re-priced orders. 480 In addition, any functionality or mechanism available
on the NMS Stock ATS that allows for price improvement would also need to be described in
response to this item.
The Commission preliminarily believes that information about how an NMS Stock ATS
prices and matches orders is useful to market participants’ and the Commission’s understanding
of that trading center’s operation. The Commission preliminarily believes that the information
required under Part IV, Items 7(b) and 7(c) of proposed Form ATS-N would allow market
participants to evaluate the terms and conditions under which their orders will interact and
execute on an NMS Stock ATS, and would thus provide them with a better opportunity to
determine whether that NMS Stock ATS is the appropriate trading destination for their orders.
480

Additionally, if subscriber orders are routed from the NMS Stock ATS and are not filled,
or filled only in part on the NMS Stock ATS, the Commission preliminarily believes that
the NMS Stock ATS should describe how such orders are time stamped for priority
purposes.

319

For example, a market participant whose order would be given a higher priority on an NMS
Stock ATS based on its subscriber class may choose to first route its order to that venue, whereas
a market participant seeking to enter a conditional order may choose to route an order based on
an NMS Stock ATS’s specific priority rules governing conditional orders. Likewise, market
participants likely would want to know whether an NMS Stock ATS applies price protection
mechanisms, or other standards, that could re-price an order or prevent it from executing under
certain conditions. In addition, the Commission preliminarily believes that the information
provided in response to Items 7(a), 7(b), and 7(c) would allow the Commission to more easily
evaluate whether the entity that filed the proposed Form ATS-N meets the criteria of Rule 3b-16
and the definition of an NMS Stock ATS.
Request for Comment
395.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Items 7(b) and 7(c) of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what
level of detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

396.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 7(b) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS related to the established, non-discretionary methods that dictate the
terms of trading among multiple buyers and sellers on the facilities of the NMS
Stock ATS, including rules and procedures governing the priority, pricing
methodologies, allocation, matching, and execution of orders and other trading
interest? Please explain.

397.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 7(c) of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
320

Stock ATS regarding the trading procedures related to price protection
mechanisms, short sales, locked-crossed markets, the handling of execution
errors, time-stamping of orders and executions, or price improvement
functionality? Please explain.
398.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Items 7(b)
and 7(c) of proposed Form ATS-N? Should these items be refined in any way? If
so, how? Please be specific.

399.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the established non-discretionary methods that dictate
the terms of trading among multiple buyers and sellers on the market or facilities
of an NMS Stock ATS? If so, describe such information and explain whether,
and if so why, such information should be required to be provided under proposed
Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

400.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding trading procedures related to price protection
mechanisms, short sales, locked-crossed markets, the handling of execution
errors, time-stamping of orders and executions, or price improvement
functionality on an NMS Stock ATS? If so, describe such information and
explain whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be
provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.

401.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Items
7(b) and 7(c) of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be
required to disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons,
321

trade secrets, burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.
402.

Are there any aspects of the non-discretionary methods that dictate the terms of
trading among buyers and sellers on which the Commission should specifically
require information that is not included as a component under Part IV, Item 7(b)
of proposed Form ATS-N?

403.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Items 7(b) and 7(c) of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed
disclosures in Part IV, Items 7(b) and 7(c) of proposed Form ATS-N require an
NMS Stock ATS to reveal too much (or not enough) information about its
structure and operations? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

404.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Items 7(b) and 7(c) of proposed
Form ATS-N other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so,
how else could this information be obtained and would such alternative means be
preferable to the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Items 7(b) and 7(c)?

H. Suspension of Trading, System Disruption or Malfunction
Part IV, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe
any procedures governing trading in the event the NMS Stock ATS suspends trading or
experiences a system disruption or malfunction. In addition, if the procedures governing trading
during a suspension or system disruption or malfunction are not the same for all subscribers and
persons, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to describe any differences. This item is
designed to inform market participants of whether, among other things, an NMS Stock ATS will
322

continue to accept orders after suspension or system malfunction or disruption occurs, whether
the NMS Stock ATS routes, holds, or continues to execute orders resting in the system prior to
the disruption, and the type of notice the NMS Stock ATS provides to subscribers and other
market participants during a suspension or system disruption or malfunction. Examples of
system disruptions would include, but are not limited to, internal software problems that prevent
the NMS Stock ATS’s system from opening or continuing trading, 481 a significant increase in
volume that exceeds the ability of the trading system of the NMS Stock ATS to process
incoming orders,482 and the failure of the ability of the trading system of the NMS Stock ATS to
receive NBBO or other external pricing information that is used in the system’s pricing
methodology.
The Commission preliminarily believes that information regarding an NMS Stock ATS’s
procedures on how orders may be handled during a suspension of trading or system disruption
or malfunction would be useful to market participants because such an event might preclude the
NMS Stock ATS from accepting and/or executing time sensitive orders and could impact the
price the subscriber receives. The information about how an NMS Stock ATS would handle
orders under such circumstances would better inform a subscriber’s trading decisions at the time
of such an event and thus help that subscriber accomplish its investing or trading objectives.
Information regarding the procedures for how an NMS Stock ATS would handle orders
during a suspension of trading or system disruption or malfunction would also help the
Commission better monitor the securities markets. The Commission has recently noted that

481

See SCI Adopting Release, supra note 17 at 72254-55 n.28.

482

See id. at 72255 n.29.

323

given the speed and interconnected nature of the U.S. securities markets, a seemingly minor
systems problem at a single entity can quickly create losses and liability for market participants,
and spread rapidly across the national market system, potentially creating widespread damage
and harm to market participants and investors.483 Accordingly, it is important to fully understand
what, if any, trading procedures an NMS Stock ATS would follow during a suspension of trading
or system disruption or malfunction. The Commission preliminarily believes that the disclosures
that would be required by Item 8 would help the Commission discover a potential violation of
the federal securities laws and rules or regulations thereunder in a more expeditious manner than
if the disclosures were not required. The Commission notes that it is not proposing to require
NMS Stock ATSs to adopt specific procedures governing trading during a system disruption or
malfunction as it did under Regulation SCI for certain significant-volume ATSs that trade NMS
stocks or non-NMS stocks. 484 Rather, under Part IV, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N, the
Commission is only requiring an NMS Stock ATS to disclose what procedures, if any, it follows
during a suspension of trading or system disruption or malfunction on the NMS Stock ATS.
Accordingly, the disclosure requirements under Item 8, similar to other items on proposed Form
ATS-N, are intended to inform market participants of an NMS Stock ATS’s procedures rather
than impose any new procedural requirements on NMS Stock ATSs.

483

See id. at 72253.

484

See supra notes 102-103 and accompanying text.

324

Request for Comment
405.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 8 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

406.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
regarding any procedures governing trading in the event the NMS Stock ATS
suspends trading or experiences a system disruption or malfunction? Please
explain.

407.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 8 of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

408.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding procedures governing trading in the event an NMS
Stock ATS suspends trading or experiences a system disruption or malfunction?
If so, describe such information and explain whether, and if so why, such
information should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N.
Please support your arguments.

409.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item 8
of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

325

410.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

411.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 8?

I. Opening, Reopening, and Closing Processes, and After Hours Procedures
Part IV, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe
its opening, reopening, and closing processes, if any, and any after-hours trading procedures.
Part IV, Item 9(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any
opening and reopening processes, including how orders or other trading interest are matched and
executed prior to the start of regular trading hours or following a stoppage of trading in a security
during regular trading hours and how unexecuted orders or other trading interest are handled at
the time the NMS Stock ATS begins regular trading at the start of regular trading hours or
following a stoppage of trading in a security during regular trading hours. An NMS Stock ATS
would also be required to describe any differences between pre-opening executions, executions
following a stoppage of trading in a security during regular trading hours, and executions during
regular trading hours. Part IV, Item 9(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require a description
of any closing process, including how unexecuted orders or other trading interest are handled at
326

the close of regular trading. An NMS Stock ATS would also be required to describe any
differences between the closing executions and executions during regular trading hours. Part IV,
Item 9(c) of proposed Form ATS-N would require a description of any after-hours trading
procedures, including how orders and trading interest are matched and executed during afterhours trading. An NMS Stock ATS would also be required to describe any differences between
the after-hours executions and executions during regular trading hours.
Part IV, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N is designed to inform market participants about
whether an NMS Stock ATS uses any special procedures to match orders outside of regular
trading hours and/or processes to set a single opening, reopening, or closing price to, for
example, maximize liquidity and accurately reflect market conditions at the opening, reopening,
or close of trading. The Commission notes that it is standard practice for national securities
exchanges to conduct opening, reopening, and closing auctions, or similar procedures, to start
and conclude the trading day, or reopen trading in a security during the trading day. 485
Furthermore, to facilitate their opening and closing processes, exchanges often permit members
to enter orders specially designated to execute on the opening or closing. 486 The disclosures
under this item would allow for comparisons between NMS Stock ATSs and exchanges.
485

See, e.g., New York Stock Exchange Rule 123D (setting forth the duties of NYSE
Designated Market Maker when opening and reopening trading in a stock); New York
Stock Exchange Rule 123C (setting forth the exchange’s closing procedures); The
Nasdaq Stock Market LLC Rule 4752 (setting forth rules for the Nasdaq Opening Cross);
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC Rule 4753 (setting forth rules for the Nasdaq Halt Cross);
The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC Rule 4754 (setting forth rules for the Nasdaq Closing
Cross); BATS Exchange Rules 11.23 and 11.24 (setting forth the exchange’s procedures
for openings, closings and auctions following a trading halt).

486

See, e.g., New York Stock Exchange Rule 13 (defining Market-on-Open. Market-onClose, Limit-on-Open, and Limit-on-Close, and Closing Offset order types); The Nasdaq
Stock Market LLC Rule 4752 (a) (defining Market on Open, Limit on Open, Opening

327

Market participants would likely want to know about any special opening, reopening, or
closing processes, and after-hours trading procedures, employed by an NMS Stock ATS. In
particular, the Commission preliminarily believes that market participants would want to know
which, if any, order types participate in an NMS Stock ATS’s opening, reopening, and/or closing
processes, and after-hours trading. The Commission preliminarily believes that such information
would help market participants assess whether participating in an NMS Stock ATS’s opening,
reopening, or closing processes, or after-hours trading on the NMS Stock ATS, would help
accomplish their investing or trading objectives and thus, cause them to route orders to the NMS
Stock ATS.
The disclosures required under Part IV, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N are also
designed to help the Commission to better oversee NMS Stock ATSs and alert the Commission
about any potential regulatory issues arising from an NMS Stock ATS’s opening, reopening, or
closing processes, or after-hours trading procedures. For example, under Rule 611(b)(3) of
Regulation NMS, 487 single-priced opening and closing transactions are excepted from the Order
Protection Rule under Rule 611(a) of Regulation NMS. 488 The Commission preliminarily
believes the disclosures required under Part IV, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N would help the
Commission analyze whether the opening, reopening, and/or closing processes of an NMS Stock

Imbalance Only, and Market Hours order types); The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC Rule
4754(a) (defining Market on Close, Limit on Close, and Imbalance Only order types);
BATS Exchange Rule 11.23(a) (defining Eligible Auction, Market-on-Open, Limit-onOpen, Late-Limit-on-Open, Market-on-Close, Limit-on-Close, and Late Limit-on-Close
order types).
487

See 17 CFR 242.611(b)(3).

488

See 17 CFR 242.611(a).

328

ATS, and after-hours trading procedures, are consistent with the Exchange Act and the rules and
regulations thereunder.
Request for Comment
412.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 9 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of detail
should be disclosed? Please be specific.

413.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the information
that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS Stock ATS
regarding its opening, reopening, or closing processes, if any, and any after-hours
trading procedures? Please explain.

414.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the opening or reopening processes, closing process,
or after-hours trading procedures on the NMS Stock ATS? If so, describe such
information and explain whether, and if so why, such information should be
required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your
arguments.

415.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 9 of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

416.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item 9
of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
329

417.

Do you believe the information that would be required by Part IV, Item 9 of
proposed Form ATS-N would be useful to market participants when deciding
whether to trade on the NMS Stock ATS and would assist them in devising
appropriate trading strategies to help accomplish their investing or trading
objectives? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

418.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

419.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 9?

J. Outbound Routing
Part IV, Item 10(a) of Proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe the circumstances under which orders or other trading interest are routed from the NMS
Stock ATS to another trading center, including whether outbound routing occurs at the
affirmative instruction of the subscriber or at the discretion of the broker-dealer operator, and the
means by which routing is performed (e.g., a third party or order management system or a SOR
(or similar functionality) or algorithm of the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates). If the
means by which orders or other trading interest are routed from the NMS Stock ATS are not the
330

same for all subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to describe any
differences under Part IV, Item 10(b) of proposed Form ATS-N.
Based on Commission experience, some NMS Stock ATSs, by way of their broker-dealer
operator, provide outbound routing services whereby a subscriber’s order or trading interest
could be routed to another trading center. 489 Orders and trading interest could be routed to other
trading centers under a variety of circumstances. For instance, a subscriber could instruct the
NMS Stock ATS to route its orders to another trading center if it is not immediately executed on
the NMS Stock ATS upon entry. Also, a subscriber could enter an order on the NMS Stock ATS
that rests as an open order on the NMS Stock ATS and is concurrently routed to another trading
center for potential execution. If the order is executed at the away trading center, the NMS Stock
ATS would cancel the order resting as an open order on the NMS Stock ATS. If the order is
executed on the NMS Stock ATS, the order that was routed to the away market would be
canceled.
The descriptions in response to Part IV, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N would be
required to include who determines routing destinations, whether the subscriber, the brokerdealer operator, or both. This information is meant to illuminate when subscribers would have
control over potential routing destinations and when the broker-dealer operator would have
discretion to route away. The Commission preliminarily believes that subscribers would find it
useful to be aware of any instance in which the broker-dealer operator has discretion to route
489

“Trading center” under Regulation NMS is defined as “a national securities exchange or
national securities association that operates an SRO trading facility, an alternative trading
system, an exchange market maker, an OTC market maker, or any other broker or dealer
that executes orders internally by trading as principal or crossing orders as agent.” 17
CFR 242.600(b)(78).

331

trading interest so that a subscriber could better protect its interests and monitor any such
routing. Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N would also require a description of the means by
which the routing is performed. Examples of the means of outbound routing could include a
third-party router, an order management system or SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm of
the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates, or any other functionality used to outbound
route trading interest.
The Commission preliminarily believes that it is important for subscribers and potential
subscribers to know at whose discretion any outbound routing occurs and who would be
performing the routing. The Commission preliminarily believes that such disclosures concerning
outbound routing would provide subscribers and potential subscribers with the ability to gauge
how their orders would be handled if they are not executed on the NMS Stock ATS. Subscribers
and potential subscribers might, for example, have concerns about the leakage of confidential
trading information when their orders are routed to other trading centers. Part IV, Item 10 of
proposed Form ATS-N is designed to provide subscribers and potential subscribers with relevant
information to evaluate the potential for leakage of their confidential trading information. In
addition, subscribers and potential subscribers could have concerns about the treatment of their
confidential trading information should their orders be routed by a third party or the SOR (or
similar functionality) or algorithm of the broker-dealer operator. Overall, the Commission
preliminarily believes that information about routing would likely be useful to market
participants when deciding whether to subscribe or otherwise submit orders to an NMS Stock
ATS that might be eligible for routing.
The Commission also preliminarily believes that the disclosures required by Part IV, Item
10 of proposed Form ATS-N would aid it in evaluating whether an NMS Stock ATS is in
332

compliance with Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS. 490 The Commission could use the
disclosures required under Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N to evaluate whether there are any
risks to the confidentiality of trading information on an NMS Stock ATS due to the outbound
routing functionality being used. These disclosures would provide the Commission with insight
into what trading information may be visible to the entity performing the NMS Stock ATS’s
outbound routing functions, such as a third party or the broker-dealer operator’s SOR (or similar
functionality) or algorithm.
Request for Comment
420.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 10 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

421.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS regarding the circumstances under which orders or other trading
interest are routed from the NMS Stock ATS to another trading center? Please
explain.

422.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 10 of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

423.

What mechanisms are available for NMS Stock ATSs to perform outbound
routing? Do you believe there is any additional information that the Commission

490

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(10).

333

should require NMS Stock ATSs to disclose with regard to outbound routing? If
so, explain what information and why. Please support your arguments.
424.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
10 of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

425.

Do you believe that the disclosures required under Part IV, Item 10 of proposed
Form ATS-N would provide market participants with relevant information to
evaluate the potential for leakage of their confidential trading information? Why
or why not? Please be specific.

426.

Do you believe transparency in how an NMS Stock ATS routes orders to other
trading centers is useful to market participants when deciding whether to trade on
the NMS Stock ATS and would assist them in devising appropriate trading
strategies to help accomplish their investing or trading objectives? Why or why
not?

427.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the circumstances under which orders or other trading
interest are routed from the NMS Stock ATS to another trading center? If so,
describe such information and explain whether, and if so why, such information
should be required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support
your arguments.

428.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
334

Part IV, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.
429.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 10?

K. Market Data
Part IV, Item 11 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
its sources and use of market data. Part IV, Item 11(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require a
description of the market data used by the NMS Stock ATS and the source of that market data
(e.g., market data feeds disseminated by the consolidated data processor (“SIP”) and market data
feeds disseminated directly by an exchange or other trading center or third-party vendor of
market data). Part IV, Item 11(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS
to describe the specific purpose for which the market data is used by the NMS Stock ATS,
including how market data is used to determine the NBBO, protected quotes, pricing of orders
and executions, and routing destinations. For instance, an NMS Stock ATS can elect to use
market data feeds for purposes of complying with the trade through rule of Rule 611 of
Regulation NMS 491 and for pricing executions on the NMS Stock ATS that are derived from
prices on other trading centers, such as an execution at the mid-point of the NBBO. An NMS
491

See 17 CFR 242.611(a).

335

Stock ATS also might use data feeds to determine the prices available at other trading centers for
purposes of routing orders or other trading interest.
The Commission preliminarily believes that market participants would likely find it
useful to know the source and specific purpose for which market data is used by an NMS Stock
ATS. For instance, the market data received by an NMS Stock ATS might affect the price at
which orders are executed on the NMS Stock ATS. 492 In addition, because of the latency
differences between the SIP and the direct data feeds of the exchanges, 493 the source of an NMS
Stock ATS’s market data could impact the price received by a market participant, depending on
the ATS’s source of the market data. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that
Part IV, Item 11 of proposed Form ATS-N would provide market participants with information
to assist them in developing optimal trading strategies to account for any potential latency
differences between market data feeds. Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily believes that
these disclosures would assist subscribers to understand the procedures employed by the NMS
Stock ATS for complying with Regulation NMS, including an understanding about how their
orders might be routed by the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission also preliminarily believes
that the disclosures required under Item 11 could help the Commission in understanding how

492

See supra Section VIII.G (explaining how NMS Stock ATSs might use the NBBO to set
execution prices). See also Morgan Stanley letter, supra note 197, (stating it received
customer questions specific to the use of direct market data feeds by the dark pool’s
servers and algorithmic strategies).

493

See 2010 Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124, at 3611 (“Given the extra step
required for SROs to transmit market data to plan processors, and for plan processors to
consolidate the information and distribute it the public, the information in the individual
data feeds of exchanges and ECNs generally reaches market participants faster than the
same information in the consolidated data feeds.”).

336

market data is used for purposes of monitoring developments in market structure.
Request for Comment
430.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 11 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

431.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 11 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS regarding the sources and use of market data? Please explain.

432.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 11 of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

433.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the sources and use of market data? If so, describe
such information and explain whether, and if so why, such information should be
required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your
arguments.

434.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
11 of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

435.

Are there any other applications for which NMS Stock ATSs use market data that
the Commission should specifically identify and/or discuss under Part IV, Item 11
of Proposed Form ATS-N?
337

436.

Do you believe that transparency regarding what market data an NMS Stock ATS
uses and how the NMS Stock ATS uses that market data is useful to market
participants when deciding whether to trade on the NMS Stock ATS and would
assist them in devising appropriate trading strategies to help accomplish their
investing or trading objectives? Why or why not?

437.

Do you believe that the disclosures required under Part IV, Item 11 of Proposed
Form ATS-N would assist the Commission to understand the procedures
employed by an NMS Stock ATS for complying with Regulation NMS and to
understand how orders are priced, handled, and routed by the NMS Stock ATS?
Why or why not?

438.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 11 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 11?

439.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 11 of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 11 of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

L. Fees
Part IV, Item 12 of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to disclose
and describe its fee and rebate structure. Part IV, Item 12(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would
338

require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any fees, rebates, or other charges of the NMS Stock
ATS (e.g., connectivity fees, subscription fees, execution fees, volume discounts) and provide the
range (e.g., high and low) of such fees, rebates, or other charges. If the fees, rebates, or other
charges of the NMS Stock ATS are not the same for all subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock
ATS would be required to describe any differences under Part IV, Item 12(b) of proposed Form
ATS-N.
The Commission preliminarily believes that by requiring a description of an NMS Stock
ATS’s fees, rebates, and other charges, market participants would be able to review and evaluate
the fee structure of each NMS Stock ATS. If an NMS Stock ATS has a recognized fee structure,
such as a maker-taker pricing model, 494 that information would be required to be disclosed under
Part IV, Item 12 of proposed Form ATS-N. The Commission preliminarily believes these
disclosures would allow market participants to analyze the fee structures across NMS Stock
ATSs in an expedited manner and decide which ATS offers them the best pricing according to
the characteristics of their order flow, the type of participant they are (if relevant), or any other
aspects of an ATS’s fee structure that serves to provide incentivizes or disincentives for specific
market participants or trading behaviors. For instance, an institutional subscriber that commonly
adds non-marketable, resting orders that offer liquidity may choose to subscribe to an ATS that
rewards liquidity-providing orders with rebates. The types of fees charged for services also
could influence whether a market participant subscribes to, or the extent to which it participates
on, an NMS Stock ATS. For instance, an NMS Stock ATS with relatively higher connectivity
494

Under the maker-taker pricing model, non-marketable, resting orders that offer (make)
liquidity at a particular price receive a liquidity rebate if they are executed, while
incoming orders that execute against (take) the liquidity of resting orders are charged an
access fee. See 2010 Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124, at 3598-3599.

339

fees and relatively lower execution fees may not be as attractive to a market participant that only
intends to send the NMS Stock ATS a small amount of trading interest.
The Commission also is proposing to require that NMS Stock ATSs describe any
differences in their fees, rebates, or other charges among differing types of subscribers or other
persons. The Commission preliminarily believes that this information would further illuminate
the types of subscribers and/or trading interest that the NMS Stock ATS may be trying to
attract. 495 This information would allow market participants to observe whether an NMS Stock
ATS is offering more preferential treatment to other market participants and, therefore, aid
market participants in deciding where to route their trading interest accordingly. 496
Part IV, Item 12 of proposed Form ATS-N also would require that the NMS Stock ATS
provide the range (e.g., high and low) of such fees, rebates, or other charges. For these
disclosures, the types of fees should be categorized in the same manner as the NMS Stock ATS
divides fees internally or on its fee schedule. For example, if an NMS Stock ATS provides
rebates for liquidity added onto the ATS, then the range for such rebates would be required by
this item. If these rebates are further divided into differing rebate amounts depending on order
types used, then the range of such rebates for each order type would also need to be disclosed on
proposed Form ATS-N.
Item 12, however, does not require NMS Stock ATSs to disclose a complete schedule of
their fees. In some cases, the fee schedules employed by NMS Stock ATSs are highly bespoke,
495

See Bloomberg Tradebook letter, supra note 190 and accompanying text (recommending
that the Commission ask ATSs to complete a questionnaire including questions relating
to any special fees or rebates which lead to a preference of one order over another).

496

But see supra notes 92-95 and 427-429 and accompanying text (discussing the fair access
requirements of Regulation ATS).

340

and it may not be practical or desirable to require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose the fee
schedule applicable to each subscriber to the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission, therefore, is
proposing that the NMS Stock ATS disclose only the range of fees for each service. These
disclosures are designed to give market participants an awareness of the fees charged by the
NMS Stock ATS and allow market participants to understand and compare fees across NMS
Stock ATSs, which could reduce the search costs of market participants in deciding where to
send their orders and trading interest. The Commission preliminarily believes that the
disclosures required by Part IV, Item 12 of proposed Form ATS-N would also assist the
Commission in better understanding the fee structures of NMS Stock ATSs and trends in the
market as part of the Commission’s overall review of market structure.
Request for Comment
440.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 12 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

441.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 12 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS regarding its fee and rebate structure? Please explain.

442.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 12 of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

443.

Do you believe the Commission should require NMS Stock ATSs to publicly
disclose their fees, charges, and rebates on proposed Form ATS-N? Why or why
not?
341

444.

Do you believe the Commission should require NMS Stock ATSs to disclose their
complete fee schedules? Are there other ways that NMS Stock ATSs earn
revenue about which the Commission should require disclosure?

445.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding fees, rebates and other charges? If so, describe such
information and explain whether, and if so why, such information should be
required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your
arguments.

446.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
12 of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

447.

Do you believe that the information required by Part IV, Item 12 of proposed
Form ATS-N would assist market participants and the Commission in comparing
fees across NMS Stock ATSs? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

448.

Do you believe that the information required by Part IV, Item 12 of proposed
Form ATS-N would allow the Commission to gather further information and
analyze trends in the market, including how the prevalence of different fee
structures may impact different categories of market participants? Would this
information assist the Commission in evaluating the potential incentives and
disincentives created by different fee structures in the market for NMS stocks?
Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

342

449.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 12 of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 12 of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

450.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 12 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 12?

M. Trade Reporting, Clearance and Settlement
Part IV, Item 13 would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe its arrangements or
procedures for trade reporting, clearance, and settlement of transactions. Part IV, Item 13(a) of
proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any arrangements or
procedures for reporting transactions on the NMS Stock ATS and if the trade reporting
procedures are not the same for all subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock ATS would be
required to describe any differences. Part IV, Item 13(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would
require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any arrangements or procedures undertaken by the NMS
Stock ATS to facilitate the clearance and settlement of transactions on the NMS Stock ATS. If
the clearance and settlement procedures are not the same for all subscribers and persons, the
NMS Stock ATS would be required to describe any differences. The Commission notes that
Item 13 of proposed Form ATS-N would solicit similar information that is solicited pursuant to
Exhibit F, subsection (d) of Form ATS, which currently requires ATSs to provide their
343

procedures governing execution, reporting, clearance, and settlement of transactions effected
through the ATS. 497
Trade reporting furthers the transparent, efficient, and fair operation of the securities
markets. 498 For example, among other requirements, a broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock
ATS that is a member of FINRA has trade reporting obligations to FINRA under FINRA Rule
4552 and FINRA Rule 6730. The Commission preliminarily believes the proposed disclosure of
the trade reporting procedures of an NMS Stock ATS under Part IV, Item 13(a) of proposed
Form ATS-N would also allow the Commission and the NMS Stock ATS’s SRO to more easily
review the compliance of the NMS Stock ATS with its applicable trade reporting obligations.
The Commission also preliminarily believes market participants may also find the disclosure of
these procedures useful to understanding how their trade information is reported.
Part IV, Item 13(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require that an NMS Stock ATS
describe any arrangements or procedures undertaken by the NMS Stock ATS to facilitate the
clearance and settlement of transactions on the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission has
previously stated that the integrity of the trading markets depends on the prompt and accurate

497

In contrast to current Form ATS, Form ATS-N further would require that an NMS Stock
ATS describe any differences in the manner in which its trade reporting, clearance, and
settlement procedures are applied among subscribers and other persons. Also, Exhibit F,
subsection (d) of Form ATS requires ATSs to provide the procedures governing
execution in the same section as reporting and clearance and settlement procedures,
whereas Form ATS-N would require information on execution procedures under a
separate item, Part IV, Item 7.

498

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70887 (stating the market-wide
transaction and quotation reporting plans operated by the registered national securities
exchanges are responsible for the transparent, efficient, and fair operations of the
securities markets).

344

clearance and settlement of securities transactions. 499 For example, the description of procedures
required by Item 13(b) of proposed Form ATS-N could include the process through which an
NMS Stock ATS clears a trade (e.g., whether the NMS Stock ATS becomes a counterparty to a
transaction, interposing itself between two counterparties to a transaction, or whether the NMS
Stock ATS submits trades to a registered clearing agency for clearing) and any requirements an
NMS Stock ATS places on its subscribers, or other persons whose orders are routed to an NMS
Stock ATS, to have clearance and settlement systems and/or arrangements with a clearing firm.
The Commission preliminarily believes market participants would likely find the disclosures
required by Item 13(b) to be useful in understanding the measures undertaken by an NMS Stock
ATS to facilitate clearance and settlement of subscriber orders on the NMS Stock ATS and allow
them to more easily compare the clearance arrangements required across NMS Stock ATSs as
part of deciding where to route their trading interest. The Commission preliminarily believes that
the disclosures required by Part IV, Item 13 of proposed Form ATS-N may assist the
Commission in better understanding the trade reporting, clearance and settlement procedures of
NMS Stock ATSs and trends in the market as part of the Commission’s overall review of market
structure.
Request for Comment
451.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 13 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

499

See id. at 70897.

345

452.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 13 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS regarding its arrangements or procedures for trade reporting,
clearance, and settlement of transactions? Please explain.

453.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding procedures for trade reporting, clearance, and
settlement of transactions on the NMS Stock ATSs? If so, describe such
information and explain whether, and if so why, such information should be
required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your
arguments.

454.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 13 of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific

455.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
13 of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

456.

Do you believe that the information required by Part IV, Item 13 of proposed
Form ATS-N will assist market participants in the manner described above? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments.

457.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 13 of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 13 of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
346

too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.
458.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 13 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 13?

N. Order Display and Execution Access
Part IV, Item 14 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to provide
the following information if the NMS Stock ATS displays orders in an NMS stock to any person
other than employees of the NMS Stock ATS and executed 5% or more of the average daily
trading volume in that NMS stock as reported by an effective transaction reporting plan for four
of the preceding six calendar months: (a) the ticker symbol for each such NMS stock displayed
for each of the last 6 calendar months; (b) the manner in which the NMS Stock ATS displays
such orders on a national securities exchange or through a national securities association; and (c)
how the NMS Stock ATS provides access to such orders displayed in the national market system
equivalent to the access to other orders displayed on that exchange or association. 500

500

In response to Part IV, Item 14 of proposed Form ATS-N, an NMS Stock ATS filing a
Form ATS-N would indicate “not applicable” if the NMS Stock ATS had not triggered
the volume thresholds under Rule 301(b)(3)(i) of Regulation ATS before commencing
operations pursuant to an effective Form ATS-N. If an NMS Stock ATS triggers the
Rule 301(b)(3)(i) thresholds after commencing operations pursuant to an effective Form
ATS-N, the Commission generally would consider this to be a material change to the
operations of the NMS Stock ATS (assuming it is not already complying with the display
and access requirements of Rule 301(b)(3)), and the NMS Stock ATS would be required
to file a Form ATS-N Amendment pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A). In the

347

The information elicited in Part IV, Item 14 relates to an NMS Stock ATS’s obligations
under current Rule 301(b)(3) of Regulation ATS, which applies if an ATS displays a subscriber
order in an NMS stock to any person other than ATS employees, and during at least 4 of the
preceding 6 calendar months, executed 5% or more of the average daily trading volume in that
NMS Stock as reported by an effective transaction reporting plan . Rule 301(b)(3)(ii) and (iii)
requires qualifying ATSs to report their highest bid and lowest offer for the relevant NMS stock
for inclusion in the quotation data made available by the national securities exchange or national
securities association to which it reports and provide equivalent access to effect a transaction
with other orders displayed on the exchange or by the association. 501 Under the current
regulatory regime for ATSs, there is no mechanism under which an ATS must notify the
Commission, its SRO, or market participants after it has triggered those requirements. 502
The information required by Part IV, Item 14 of proposed Form ATS-N is designed to
elicit information about how the NMS Stock ATS complies with the requirements of Rule
301(b)(3) of Regulation ATS when applicable. The Commission preliminarily believes that the
case where an NMS Stock ATS has voluntarily chosen to comply with the display and
access requirements of Rule 301(b)(3)(ii) and (iii) before crossing the relevant thresholds,
the NMS Stock ATS would nevertheless have to file a Form ATS-N Amendment upon
surpassing the thresholds within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter pursuant to
proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(B).
501

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(3)(ii) and (iii).

502

In contrast, an ATS that triggers the “fair access” requirements under Rule 301(b)(5), see
supra notes 92-95 and 426-429 and accompanying text, is required to attach Exhibit C to
Form ATS-R, which is filed with the Commission, but not publicly available. Exhibit C
of Form ATS-R requires an ATS that triggered the fair access requirements to: (1)
provide a list of all persons granted, denied, or limited access to the ATS during the
period covered by the ATS-R and (2) designate for each person (a) whether they were
granted, denied, or limited access, (b) the date the ATS took such action, (c) the effective
date of such action, and (d) the nature of any denial on limitation of access. See supra
note 453.

348

disclosure of the information required by Item 14 of proposed Form ATS-N would facilitate the
Commission’s oversight of NMS Stock ATSs and their compliance with Rule 301(b)(3) and help
the Commission discover a potential violation of the federal securities laws and rules or
regulations thereunder in a more expeditious manner than if the disclosures were not required. In
part, because the thresholds required for display and access are counted for each NMS stock
individually, an NMS Stock ATS would be required to disclose the ticker symbol for the relevant
NMS stock to aid the Commission in evaluating its compliance. The Commission also
preliminarily believes that these disclosures would help ensure that market participants and the
Commission are aware when an NMS Stock ATS has become a significant source of liquidity in
an NMS stock. Further, the Commission preliminarily believes that market participants would
find the information disclosed in this item useful to understand how they can access applicable
quotations.
Request for Comment
459.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 14 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

460.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 14 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS regarding the NMS Stock ATS’s obligations under current Rule
301(b)(3) of Regulation ATS? Please explain.

461.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the NMS Stock ATS’s obligations under current Rule
301(b)(3) of Regulation ATS? If so, describe such information and explain
349

whether, and if so why, such information should be required to be provided under
proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your arguments.
462.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 14 of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

463.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
14 of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

464.

Do you believe that the information required by Part IV, Item 14 of proposed
Form ATS-N will assist market participants in accessing applicable quotations
and ensuring they receive equivalent access on the NMS Stock ATS? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

465.

Do you believe that the imposition of the requirements of Rule 301(b)(3) on an
NMS Stock ATS crossing the relevant volume thresholds of Rule 301(b)(3)(i) and
meeting the display requirement of the rule, should constitute a material change in
the operations of the NMS Stock ATS such that it should be reported to the
Commission in advance? Why or why not?

466.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 14 of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 14 of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.
350

467.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 14 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 14?

In 2009, the Commission published a proposal to address certain practices with respect to
undisplayed liquidity, which is trading interest that is available for execution at a trading center,
but is not included in the consolidated quotation data that is widely disseminated to the public. 503
Among other things, the Commission proposed amending Rule 301(b)(3) of Regulation ATS to
lower the trading volume threshold that triggers public display obligations for ATSs from 5% or
more of the aggregate average daily share volume for an NMS stock as reported by an effective
transaction reporting plan to 0.25% or more of the aggregate average daily share volume for an
NMS stock as reported by an effective transaction reporting plan. 504 The Commission also
proposed to change the definition of “bid” or “offer” in Regulation NMS to clarify that the public
quoting requirements apply to actionable indications of interest privately transmitted by dark
pools to selected market participants. 505
Request for Comment
468.

Do you believe that the Commission should lower the 5% trading volume
threshold in Rule 301(b)(3) of Regulation ATS that triggers the public display

503

See generally Regulation of Non-Public Trading Interest, supra note 123.

504

See id. at 61216.

505

See id.

351

requirement for ATSs? Why or why not? If so, what is the appropriate threshold
level? Please support your arguments.
469.

Do you believe that the Commission should define actionable indications of
interest in the definition of “bid” and “offer” in Regulation NMS? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments.

O. Fair Access
Part IV, Item 15 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to provide
the following information if the NMS Stock ATS executes 5% or more of the average daily
trading volume in an NMS stock as reported by an effective transaction reporting plan for four of
the preceding six calendar months: (a) the ticker symbol for each NMS stock for each of the last
6 calendar months; and (b) a description of the written standards for granting access to trading on
the NMS Stock ATS. 506 As explained above, 507 Rule 301(b)(5)(ii)(A) of Regulation ATS
requires an ATS to establish written standards for granting access to trading on its system when
it crosses the fair access thresholds of Rule 301(b)(5)(i) and does not meet the exception set forth
506

In response to Part IV, Item 15 of proposed Form ATS-N, an NMS Stock ATS filing a
Form ATS-N would indicate “not applicable” if the NMS Stock ATS had not triggered
the volume thresholds under Rule 301(b)(5)(i) of Regulation ATS before commencing
operations pursuant to an effective Form ATS-N. If an NMS Stock ATS triggers the
Rule 301(b)(5)(i) thresholds after commencing operations pursuant to an effective Form
ATS-N, the Commission would generally consider this to be a material change to the
operations of the NMS Stock ATS (assuming it is not already complying with the fair
access requirements of Rule 301(b)(5)), and the NMS Stock ATS would be required to
file a Form ATS-N Amendment pursuant to proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A). In the case
where an NMS Stock ATS has voluntarily chosen to comply with the fair access
requirements of Rule 301(b)(5)(ii) before crossing the relevant thresholds, the NMS
Stock ATS would nevertheless have to file a Form ATS-N Amendment upon surpassing
the thresholds within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter pursuant to Rule
proposed 304(a)(2)(i)(B).

507

See supra notes 92-95 and accompanying text.

352

in Rule 301(b)(5)(iii). If an ATS crosses the fair access thresholds, Rule 301(b)(5)(ii)(B)
requires the ATS to “not unreasonably prohibit or limit any person in respect to access to
services offered by such alternative trading system by applying the [written] standards . . . in an
unfair or discriminatory manner.” 508
The Commission preliminarily believes that the disclosure of the information requested
by Part IV, Item 15 of proposed Form ATS-N would facilitate the Commission’s oversight of
NMS Stock ATSs and their compliance with Rule 301(b)(5). Because the volume thresholds
required for fair access are counted for each NMS stock individually, an NMS Stock ATS would
be required to disclose the ticker symbol for the relevant NMS stock to aid the Commission in
evaluating the NMS Stock ATS’s compliance. The Commission also preliminarily believes that
it is important for market participants to be aware of whether an NMS Stock ATS is a significant
source of liquidity for an NMS stocks and therefore, must provide fair access. Although Exhibit
C of Form ATS-R requires an ATS to notify the Commission when it has crossed a fair access
threshold in a particular calendar quarter, 509 there is currently no requirement that an ATS must
notify the public when it has done so. The Commission preliminarily believes that having such
information publicly available will help market participants better evaluate trading opportunities
and where to route orders in order to reach their trading and/or investment objectives. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the disclosures that would be required by Item 15 would
help the Commission discover a potential violation of the federal securities laws and rules or
regulations thereunder in a more expeditious manner than if the disclosures were not required.

508

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(5)(ii)(B).

509

See supra note 453.

353

Request for Comment
470.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 15 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

471.

Do you believe Part IV, Item 15 of proposed Form ATS-N captures the
information that is most relevant to understanding the operations of the NMS
Stock ATS regarding the written standards for granting access to trading on its
system when it crosses the fair access thresholds of Rule 301(b)(5)(i) (and does
not meet the exception set forth in Rule 301(b)(5)(iii))? Please explain.

472.

Do you believe there is other information that market participants might find
relevant or useful regarding the written standards for granting access to trading on
its system when it crosses the fair access thresholds of Rule 301(b)(5)(i) (and does
not meet the exception set forth in Rule 301(b)(5)(iii))? If so, describe such
information and explain whether, and if so why, such information should be
required to be provided under proposed Form ATS-N. Please support your
arguments.

473.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
15 of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade secrets,
burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

474.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 15 of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.
354

475.

Do you believe that the disclosures under Part IV, Item 15 of proposed Form
ATS-N would help market participants better evaluate trading opportunities and
where to route orders in order to reach their investment objectives? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments.

476.

Do you believe that the imposition of the requirements of Rule 301(b)(5) on an
NMS Stock ATS crossing the relevant volume thresholds of Rule 301(b)(5)(i)
should constitute a material change in the operations of the NMS Stock ATS such
that it should be reported to the Commission in advance? Why or why not?

477.

What are the potential costs and benefits of disclosing the information required by
Part IV, Item 15 of proposed Form ATS-N? Would the proposed disclosures in
Part IV, Item 15 of proposed Form ATS-N require an NMS Stock ATS to reveal
too much (or not enough) information about its structure and operations? Why or
why not? Please support your arguments.

478.

Do you believe there are other ways to obtain the same information as would be
required from NMS Stock ATSs by Part IV, Item 15 of proposed Form ATS-N
other than through disclosure on proposed Form ATS-N? If so, how else could
this information be obtained and would such alternative means be preferable to
the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 15?

P. Market Quality Statistics Published or Provided by the NMS Stock ATS to
Subscribers
Part IV, Item 16 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to explain
and provide certain aggregate platform-wide market quality statistics that it publishes or provides

355

to one or more subscribers regarding the NMS Stock ATS. 510 Under Item 16, if the NMS Stock
ATS publishes or otherwise provides to one or more subscribers aggregate platform-wide order
flow and execution statistics of the NMS Stock ATS that are not otherwise required disclosures
under Exchange Act Rule 605 of Regulation NMS, it would be required to: (i) list and describe
the categories of the aggregate platform-wide order flow and execution statistics published or
provided; (ii) describe the metrics and methodology used to calculate the aggregate platformwide order flow and execution statistics; and (iii) attach as Exhibit 5 the most recent disclosure
of the aggregate platform-wide order flow and execution statistics published or provided to one
or more subscribers for each category or metric as of the end of the calendar quarter. An NMS
Stock ATS would not be required to develop or publish any new statistics for purposes of
making this disclosure; it would only be required to make the disclosures for statistics it already
otherwise collects and publishes or provides to one or more subscribers to the NMS Stock ATS.
The Commission preliminarily believes that some NMS Stock ATSs voluntarily publish
or otherwise provide to subscribers aggregate platform-wide order flow and execution statistics
that do not fall under the statistical information that is required to be disclosed under Exchange
Act Rule 605, 511 which requires market centers, such as NMS Stock ATSs, to publish monthly
reports of statistics on their order executions. To the extent an NMS Stock ATS publishes or
provides such aggregate platform-wide statistics to one or more subscribers, Part IV, Items 16(a)
and (b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to list and describe the

510

An NMS Stock ATS would only be required to provide order flow and execution
statistics that are aggregated across the ATS as a whole, not subscriber-specific order
flow and execution statistics.

511

17 CFR 242.605.

356

categories or metrics of the statistics it publishes or provides to subscribers and describe any
criteria or methodology that the ATS uses to calculate those statistics, respectively. Item 16(c)
would require the NMS Stock ATS to attach as Exhibit 5 the most recent disclosure of order
flow and execution statistics published or provided for each category or metric as of the end of
the calendar quarter. 512 To comply with the requirements of Item 16(c), an NMS Stock ATS
would file a Form ATS-N Amendment with an updated Exhibit 5 within 30 calendar days after
the end of each calendar quarter. 513
Under Part IV, Item 16, an NMS Stock ATS would be required to explain and provide
any aggregate platform-wide order flow or execution statistic that is not otherwise a required
disclosure under Exchange Act Rule 605 and published or provided to one or more subscribers
by the NMS Stock ATS. An example of a type of statistic that would be a required disclosure
under Item 16 would be statistics related to the percentage of midpoint executions on the NMS
Stock ATS that the NMS Stock ATS publishes or otherwise provides to subscribers. The NMS
Stock ATS would be required to list that category under Part IV, Item 16(a) and explain how the
NMS Stock ATS calculates that statistic under Item 16(b). Within 30 calendar days after the end
of each calendar quarter, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to attach an Exhibit 5
containing the most recent percentage it disseminated during the previous quarter. The
512

For instance, if an NMS Stock ATS publishes or provides a particular statistic on a daily
basis, the NMS Stock ATS would include in Exhibit 5 the statistic that was published or
provided to one or more subscribers on the last trading day of the calendar quarter (e.g.,
the statistic published or provided on June 30th or last trading day prior to June 30th). If
an NMS Stock ATS publishes or provides a particular statistic weekly, the NMS Stock
ATS would be required to include in Exhibit 5 the statistic that was published or provided
to one or more subscribers at the end of the week prior to the end of the calendar quarter
(e.g., the statistic published for the last full week of June).

513

See proposed Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(B).

357

Commission preliminarily believes that requiring the NMS Stock ATS to provide the statistic on
Form ATS-N on a quarterly basis would allow market participants to obtain insight into the
nature of trading on the NMS Stock ATS on a sufficiently frequent basis while minimizing the
reporting burden for the NMS Stock ATS.
The Commission preliminarily believes that an NMS Stock ATS may choose to create
and publish or provide to one or more subscribers information concerning order flow and
execution quality for different reasons. For example, the NMS Stock ATS may have concluded
that publication of certain statistics may highlight certain characteristics of the NMS Stock ATS
that would attract certain order flow. Or a subscriber may have requested that the NMS Stock
ATS provide certain aggregated information concerning order flow and execution quality that the
subscriber needed to assess the ATS’s operations. The Commission notes that certain
performance metrics and statistics may be important factors for investors and subscribers in
comparing and selecting an ATS that is most appropriate for their investment objectives. 514
Indeed, Exchange Act Rule 605 currently requires ATSs to provide quarterly public reports
containing certain information concerning ATS executions. As such, to the extent that an NMS
Stock ATS has made a determination to create and publish or provide to subscribers certain
aggregate platform-wide order flow and execution quality statistics, the Commission
preliminarily believes that others may also find such information useful when evaluating an
NMS Stock ATS as a possible venue to which to route orders in order to accomplish their
investing or trading objectives.

514

See generally Tuttle: ATS Trading in NMS Stocks, supra note 126.

358

The Commission also solicits comment on whether other standardized statistical
disclosures should be required from NMS Stock ATSs and the nature and extent of any such
metrics or statistics that commenters believe should be disclosed.
Request for Comment
479.

Do you believe the Commission should require the disclosure of the information
on Part IV, Item 16 of Form ATS-N? Why or why not? If so, what level of
detail should be disclosed? Please be specific.

480.

Do you believe that the statistics required on Part IV, Item 16 of Form ATS-N
should be provided on a more or less frequent basis? Why or why not? If so,
how often should the statistics be provided (e.g., on a daily, weekly, monthly,
quarterly, or annual basis)? Please support your arguments.

481.

Is it sufficiently clear what information would be required by Part IV, Item 16 of
proposed Form ATS-N? Should the item be refined in any way? If so, how?
Please be specific.

482.

Do you believe that the disclosures under Part IV, Item 16 of proposed Form
ATS-N would help market participants better evaluate trading opportunities and
where to route orders in order to reach their investment objectives? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments.

483.

Do you believe that the Commission should require standardized public
disclosures of performance metrics or statistics for each NMS Stock ATS? Why
or why not? Please support your arguments. If so, what metrics or statistics
should NMS Stock ATSs be required to disclose publicly? Please be specific.

359

484.

What percentage of NMS Stock ATSs publish or provide market quality statistics
not otherwise required under Exchange Act Rule 605? Please explain how you
have calculated this number.

485.

Do you believe that there are other statistics or data that an NMS Stock ATS
should be required to provide on proposed Form ATS-N that would be useful to
market participants that either subscribe to or are considering subscribing to the
NMS Stock ATS? If so, please identify those metrics and explain how they
would be useful to market participants. Please support your arguments.

486.

Should the Commission require NMS Stock ATSs to disclose on Form ATS-N,
statistics regarding the extent of trading by the broker-dealer operator and its
affiliates on the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why not? If so, what statistics
should be required to be disclosed? Please support your arguments. If you
believe that an NMS Stock ATS should disclose statistics about the extent of its
broker-dealer operator’s and its affiliates’ trading activity on the NMS Stock
ATS, how often should these statistics be disclosed (e.g., on a weekly, monthly,
quarterly, annual basis)?

487.

Do you believe there is any information that would be required by Part IV, Item
16 of proposed Form ATS-N that an NMS Stock ATS should not be required to
disclose due to concerns regarding confidentiality, business reasons, trade
secrets, burden, or any other concerns? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments.

The Commission also notes that some industry participants have previously requested
public statistics about the quality of these markets. In the 2010 Equity Market Structure Release,
360

the Commission solicited public comment about, among other things, market structure
performance and order execution quality, and how transparency could be improved in these
areas. 515 For example, the Commission noted that an important objective of many dark pools is to
offer institutional investors an efficient venue in which to trade in large size with minimized market
impact, 516 and requested comment on the extent to which dark pools meet this objective of improving
execution quality for the large orders of institutional investors. 517 In seeking comment on other

tools to protect investor interests, the Commission also requested comment on Exchange Act
Rules 605 and Exchange Act Rule 606. 518 Exchange Act Rule 606 requires broker-dealers to
publish quarterly reports on their routing practices, including the venues to which they route
orders for execution. 519 Specifically, the Commission asked about the currency of Exchange Act
Rules 605 and 606 and whether the information provided on the reports was useful to investors
and their brokers in assessing the quality of order execution and routing practices. 520
In response, some commenters stated their concern about the lack of market quality
information available to the public about ATSs and other trading centers. For example, one
commenter expressed support for national securities exchanges and ATSs to disclose how often a
functionality is used and more market quality statistics, such as quote-per-execution ratios,
duration of quotes and number of times orders are routed out without getting filled so that
515

See Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124 at 3602-3614. See also supra
Section III.D (discussing certain comments received on the Equity Market Structure
Release).

516

See Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124 at 3612.

517

See id.

518

17 CFR 242.606.

519

See 2010 Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124, at 3605-3606.

520

See id.

361

investors and other market participants could better gauge execution quality. 521 Another
commenter stated that “regulators should direct broker-dealers to provide public reports of order
routing and execution quality metrics that are geared toward retail investors.” 522 This
commenter also stated that “the Commission should direct broker-dealers to provide institutional
clients with standardized execution venue statistical analysis reports” and noted its commitment
“to working with other industry groups to develop consistent industry templates, which it
believes will greatly enhance institutional investors’ ability to evaluate their brokers’ routing
practices and the quality of execution provided by different venues.” 523 Another commenter
stated its belief that publicly available order routing and execution quality statistics pursuant to
Rules 605 and 606 do not provide information to measure broker-dealers’ and execution venues’
performance with respect to specific institutional investors and that the reports are not presented
in a uniform manner that allows for easy comparison across different broker-dealers and
venues. 524
521

Goldman Sachs letter, supra note 175, at 10.

522

See SIFMA letter #2, supra note 175 at 12. For example, the commenter suggested
including information on “ (i) percent of shares Improved, (ii) average price improvement,
(iii) net Price Improvement per share, and (iv) effective/quoted spread ratio.”

523

See SIFMA letter #2, supra note 175 at 13. The commenter gave examples of the types of
information (per venue) that should be incorporated into these reports as: (i) percentage of
orders executed, (ii) average number of shares ordered and executed, (iii) fill rates–overall,
taken, added, and routed, and (iv) percentage executed displayed and undisplayed.

524

See letter from Dorothy M. Donohue, Deputy General Counsel, Investment Company
Institute; Stuart J. Kaswell, Executive Vice President & Managing Director, General
Counsel, Managed Funds Association; and Randy Snook, Executive Vice President,
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, dated October 23, 2014, at 2.
This commenter also provided a template for disclosure of order routing and execution
quality information that institutional investors could request from their broker-dealers,
which included, among other things: the number of total shares routed as actionable
IOIs; the percent of shares routed to the venue by the broker that resulted in executions at

362

With regard to the comment that the execution quality statistics currently made public
under Rules 605 and 606 are inadequate, the Commission notes that it is considering proposing
to amend Rules 600 and 606 to standardize and improve transparency around how broker-dealers
handle and route institutional customer orders. These revisions being considered would include
addressing commenter concerns regarding disclosures by broker-dealers about the trading venues
to which they route orders, particularly with respect to order and execution sizes, fill rates, price
improvement, and the use of actionable indications of interests. 525 The Commission also is
considering disclosures to facilitate the ability of institutional investors to assess potential
conflicts of interest and risks of information leakage.
Request for Comment
488.

Do you believe that there is information that the Commission should require
NMS Stock ATSs to disclose other than the information that is currently
available to market participants from order execution reports pursuant to
Exchange Act Rule 605? Why or why not? Please support your arguments. If
so, what information should be disclosed and how would the information be
useful to market participants? Please explain. Do you believe that there is
information that the Commission should require a broker-dealer operator of the

that venue); the average length of time (measured in milliseconds) that orders (other than
IOCs) were posted to a venue before being filled or cancelled; the average size, by
number of shares, of each order actually executed on the venue; the aggregate number of
shares executed at the venue that were priced at or near the mid-point between the bid
and the offer; and the percentage of total shares executed that were executed at or near
the midpoint between the bid and the offer. See id. at “Broker Routing Venue Analysis
Template Definitions.”
525

See id.

363

NMS Stock ATS to disclose other than the information that is currently available
to market participants from order routing reports pursuant to Exchange Act Rules
606? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.
489.

Do you believe that there are other means by which market quality metrics
should be required to be made available by NMS Stock ATSs to market
participants, other than as disclosures on proposed Form ATS-N? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments. If so, please identify by what means and
why? Please support your arguments.

490.

Do you believe that an NMS Stock ATS should be required to disclose
information about orders entered into its system and the ultimate disposition of
such orders? Why or why not? Please support your arguments. For example,
should NMS Stock ATSs disclose information regarding the average order size,
average execution size, and percentage of orders marked immediate or
cancel? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

491.

Do you believe that NMS Stock ATSs should be required to disclose whether the
NMS Stock ATS provided order flow and execution statistics to some
subscribers and not others? Why or why not? Please support your arguments.

492.

Do you believe that NMS Stock ATSs should be required to disclose execution
information such as the total number and percentage of shares executed at the
midpoint, total number and percentage of shares executed at the national best
bid, total number and percentage of shares executed at the national best offer,
total number and percentage of shares executed between the national best bid and
the midpoint, and total number and percentage of shares executed between the
364

midpoint and the national best offer? Why or why not? Please support your
arguments. If so, do you believe such information should be disclosed publicly
on an aggregated basis or should the information be disclosed to each subscriber
based on its own orders? Please support your arguments.
493.

Do you believe that the joint-industry plan should be amended for publicly
disseminating consolidated trade data to require real-time disclosure of the
identity of NMS Stock ATSs on reports of their executed trades? Why or why
not? Please support your arguments. Alternatively, should executions on NMS
Stock ATSs be publicly disseminated on a delayed basis? 526 Why or why not?
Please support your arguments. If so, how should this be done and what would
be the appropriate delay? Please explain.

494.

Do you believe that there are other data elements that should be provided by
NMS Stock ATSs in the consolidated trade data? What are they and why should
they be required? Please be specific.

526

FINRA Rule 4552 requires each ATS to report to FINRA weekly volume information
and number of trades regarding equity securities transactions within the ATS. Each ATS
is also required to use a single MPID when reporting information to FINRA and to report
weekly aggregate volume information on a security-by-security basis to FINRA.

365

IX.

Proposed Amendment to Rule 301(b)(10): Written Safeguards and Written
Procedures to Protect Confidential Trading Information
Current Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS 527 requires every ATS to have in place

safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information and to
separate ATS functions from other broker-dealer functions, including proprietary and customer
trading. 528 In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission recognized that some
broker-dealer operators provide traditional brokerage services as well as access to their
ATS(s). 529 The Commission further stated that Rule 301(b)(10) was not intended to preclude an
ATS from providing its traditional brokerage services; rather, Rule 301(b)(10) was designed to
prevent the misuse of private customer information in the system for the benefit of other
customers, the ATS’s operator, or its employees. 530 The Commission also stated its belief that
the sensitive nature of trading information subscribers send to ATSs requires such systems to
take certain steps to ensure the confidentiality of such information. 531 To illustrate its point, the
Commission provided the example that unless subscribers consent, registered representatives of
an ATS should not disclose information regarding trading activities of such subscribers to other
subscribers that could not be ascertained from viewing the ATS’s screens directly at the time the
information is conveyed. 532 As a result of its concerns regarding confidentiality, the

527

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(10).

528

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70879.

529

See id.

530

See id.

531

See id.

532

The Commission stated that its concern regarding confidentiality grew out of its
inspections of some ECNs, during which the Commission and its staff found that some of
the broker-dealers operating ECNs used the same personnel to operate the ECN as they

366

Commission adopted Rule 301(b)(10), which was designed to eliminate the potential for abuse of
the confidential trading information that subscribers send to ATSs. 533
Rule 301(b)(10), however, does not currently require that the safeguards and procedures
mandated under Rule 301(b)(10) be memorialized in writing. The Commission is now proposing
to amend Rule 301(b)(10) to require that such safeguards and procedures be reduced to
writing. 534 Specifically, the Commission proposes to amend Rule 301(b)(10)(i) to require that
all ATSs (including non-NMS Stock ATSs) establish written safeguards and written procedures
to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information. 535 This would include an ATS adopting
written safeguards and written procedures that limit access to the confidential trading
information of subscribers to those employees of the ATS who are operating the system or are
responsible for its compliance with Regulation ATS or any other applicable rules, 536 and
implementing written standards controlling employees of the ATS trading for their own
accounts. 537 The Commission is also proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(10)(ii) to require that the

did for more traditional broker-dealer activities, such as handling customer orders that
were received by telephone. These types of situations create the potential for misuse of
the confidential trading information in the ECN, such as customers’ orders receiving
preferential treatment, or customers receiving material confidential information about
orders in the ECN. See id.
533

See id.

534

As discussed above, proposed Form ATS-N would also require NMS Stock ATSs to
describe the written safeguards and procedures. See Part III, Item 10 of Proposed Form
ATS-N. See also supra Section VII.B.11.

535

See proposed Rule 301(b)(10)(i).

536

See proposed Rule 301(b)(10)(i)(A).

537

See proposed Rule 301(b)(10)(i)(B).

367

oversight procedures, which an ATS adopts and implements to ensure that the above safeguards
and procedures are followed, be in writing. 538
The Commission continues to believe that safeguards and procedures to ensure the
confidential treatment of ATS subscribers’ trading information are important, and that the
potential for misuse of such information continues to exist. The Commission preliminarily
believes that requiring an ATS to reduce to writing those safeguards and procedures, as well as
its oversight procedures to ensure that such safeguards and procedures are followed, would
strengthen the effectiveness of the ATS’s safeguards and procedures and would better enable the
ATS to protect confidential subscriber trading information and implement and monitor the
adequacy of, and the ATS’s compliance with, its safeguards and procedures. For example, if an
ATS were required to reduce its safeguards and procedures to writing, it could self-audit – or if it
chose to do so, undergo a third-party audit – for compliance with those safeguards and
procedures, and also assess their adequacy. In addition, the Commission preliminarily believes
that reducing ATSs’ safeguards and procedures under Rule 301(b)(10) to writing will help the
Commission and its staff, and the staff of the SRO of which an ATS’s broker-dealer operator is a
member, evaluate whether an ATS has established such procedures and safeguards, whether the
ATS has implemented and is abiding by them, and whether they comply with the requirements of
Rule 301(b)(10). This should enable the Commission, and the applicable SRO(s), to exercise
more effective oversight of ATSs regarding the ATSs’ compliance with Rule 301(b)(10) and
other federal securities laws, rules, and regulations. The Commission also preliminary believes
that its proposal would benefit market participants because they would be able to better evaluate
538

See proposed Rule 301(b)(10)(ii).

368

the implementation of such safeguards and procedures, due to the proposed rule to reduce those
safeguards and procedures to writing.
Request for Comment
495.

Do you believe the Commission should require ATSs to reduce to writing their
safeguards and procedures as described above? Why or why not? Should the
requirement apply to all ATSs or only a subset such as NMS Stock ATSs?
Please support your arguments.

496.

Do you believe that requiring ATSs to reduce to writing their safeguards and
procedures, as proposed, would help to ensure that subscribers’ confidential
trading information is protected and not misused? If not, why not? Please
support your arguments.

497.

Are there other conditions that the Commission should implement to achieve the
goal of protecting subscribers’ confidential trading information? If so, what are
they and why would they be preferable? Please be specific.

498.

Currently, how common is it for ATSs to reduce to writing their safeguards and
procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information and/or their
oversight procedures to ensure that those safeguards and procedures are
followed? For ATSs that have not reduced their safeguards and procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential trading information to writing, how do they
currently ensure their compliance with the requirements of Rule 301(b)(10)?
Please be specific.

499.

For ATSs that have not reduced to writing their safeguards and procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential trading information and/or their oversight
369

procedures to ensure that those safeguards and procedures are followed, how
long would it take to do so? Please explain.

370

X.

Recordkeeping Requirements
The Commission is proposing to amend Rules 303(a)(1) and 303(a)(2) of Regulation

ATS to reflect its proposed amendments to Rule 301(b)(2) 539 and 301(b)(10), 540 and its proposed
addition of Rule 304. 541 In addition, the Commission is proposing to make a minor technical
amendment to Rule 303.
Currently, unless not required to comply with Regulation ATS pursuant to Rule 301(a) 542
of Regulation ATS, an ATS must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of Regulation
ATS. Specifically, Rule 301(b)(8) 543 requires an ATS to make and keep current the records
specified in Rule 302 544 and to preserve the records specified in Rule 303. 545 In the Regulation
ATS Adopting Release, the Commission stated that the requirements to make and preserve
records set forth in Regulation ATS are necessary to create a meaningful audit trail and permit
surveillance and examination to help ensure fair and orderly markets. 546
Rule 303(a)(1) requires an ATS to preserve certain records for at least three years, the
first two years in an easily accessible place. 547 Specifically, Rule 303(a)(1) 548 requires an ATS
to preserve: all records required to be made pursuant to Rule 302; all notices provided to
539

See supra Section IV.C.

540

See supra Section IX.

541

See supra Section IV.C.

542

17 CFR 242.301(a).

543

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(8).

544

See 17 CFR 242.302.

545

See 17 CFR 242.303.

546

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70877-78.

547

See 17 CFR 242.303(a)(1).

548

See 17 CFR 242.303(a)(1).

371

subscribers, including notices addressing hours of operation, system malfunctions, changes to
system procedures, and instructions pertaining to access to the ATS; documents made or
received in the course of complying with the system capacity, integrity, and security standards in
Rule 301(b)(6), if applicable; 549 and, if the ATS is subject to the fair access requirements under
Rule 304(b)(5),550 a record of its access standards. Rule 303(a)(2)551 requires that certain other
records must be kept for the life of the ATS and any successor enterprise, including partnership
articles or articles of incorporation (as applicable), and copies of reports filed pursuant to Rule
301(b)(2), 552 which includes current Form ATS, and records made pursuant to Rule 301(b)(5). 553
In particular, reports required to be maintained for the life of the ATS or any successor enterprise
include initial operation reports, amendments, and cessation of operations reports, filed on Form
ATS. 554
The Commission is proposing to amend the record preservation requirements of Rule 303
to incorporate the preservation of records that would be created pursuant to the proposed
requirements that NMS Stock ATSs file Forms ATS-N, Form ATS-N Amendments, and notices
of cessation instead of Form ATS. Specifically, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule
303(a)(2)(ii) to require that an ATS shall preserve, for the life of the enterprise and of any
successor enterprise, copies of reports filed pursuant to Rule 301(b)(2) or – in the case of an

549

See supra notes 96-100 and accompanying text.

550

See supra notes 92-95 and accompanying text.

551

See 17 CFR 242.303(a)(2).

552

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2).

553

See supra notes 92-95 and accompanying text.

554

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2).

372

NMS Stock ATS – Rule 304, and records made pursuant to Rule 301(b)(5). 555 As a result,
because an NMS Stock ATS would be required to file Forms ATS-N, Form ATS-N
Amendments, and notices of cessation pursuant to proposed Rule 304, instead of on Form ATS,
the NMS Stock ATS would be required to preserve those reports for the life of the enterprise and
of any successor enterprise pursuant to the proposed amendments to Rule 303(a)(2).556 The
Commission is not proposing any amendments to the recordkeeping requirements of Rule 302, or
any other amendments to the record preservation requirements of Rule 303(a)(2).
The Commission is also proposing amendments to the record preservation requirements
of Rule 303(a)(1) to incorporate the Commission’s proposed amendments to Rule 301(b)(10), 557
which would require an ATS to reduce to writing its safeguards and procedures to ensure
confidential treatment of subscribers’ trading information and the oversight procedures to ensure
that those safeguards and procedures are followed. 558 Accordingly, the Commission is proposing
to require an ATS, for a period of not less than three years, the first two years in an easily
accessible place, to preserve at least one copy of the written safeguards and written procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential trading information and the written oversight procedures created
in the course of complying with Rule 301(b)(10). 559 The Commission is not proposing to amend
any other aspects of the records preservation requirements of Rule 303(a)(1). The Commission
555

See proposed Rule 301(a)(2)(ii).

556

The Commission notes that an NMS Stock ATS that had previously made filings on
Form ATS would be required to preserve those filings for the life of the enterprise, as
well as filings made going forward on Form ATS-N.

557

See proposed Rule 301(b)(10).

558

See supra Section VII (discussing the Commission’s proposed amendments to Rule
301(b)(10)).

559

See proposed Rule 303(a)(1)(v).

373

preliminarily believes that the proposed amendments to Rule 303 are necessary to create a
meaningful audit trail of an ATS’s current and previous written safeguards and procedures
pursuant to Rule 301(b)(2) and permit surveillance and examination to help ensure fair and
orderly markets, 560 without imposing any undue burden on ATSs.
Finally, the Commission proposes to make a minor technical amendment to Rule 303(a).
Currently, Rule 303(a) references “paragraph (b)(9) of § 242.301” when setting forth the record
preservation requirements for ATSs. The Commission is proposing to change the above
reference to “paragraph (b)(8) of § 242.301” because Rule 301(b)(8) sets forth the recordkeeping
requirements for ATSs.
Request for Comment
500.

Do you believe the Commission should amend the recordkeeping requirements
for ATSs as proposed? Why or why not?

501.

Do you believe that there are any other requirements of Rule 303 that should be
amended to satisfy the objectives of this proposal? If so, what are they and why?

502.

Do you believe that the proposed amendments to the record preservation
requirements of Rule 303 are reasonable? If not, why? Please support your
arguments.

XI.

General Request for Comment
The Commission is requesting comments from all members of the public. The

Commission particularly requests comment from the point of view of persons who operate ATSs
that would meet the proposed definition of NMS Stock ATS, subscribers to those systems,
560

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70877-78.

374

investors, and registered national securities exchanges. The Commission seeks comment on all
aspects of the proposed rule amendments and proposed form, particularly the specific questions
posed above. Commenters should, when possible, provide the Commission with data to support
their views. Commenters suggesting alternative approaches should provide comprehensive
proposals, including any conditions or limitations that they believe should apply, the reasons for
their suggested approaches, and their analysis regarding why their suggested approaches would
satisfy the objectives of the proposed amendments. The Commission will carefully consider the
comments it receives.
503.

Do you believe that there is other information about the nature or extent of the
operations of an NMS Stock ATS that should be disclosed on proposed Form
ATS-N? Are there specific topics about which the Commission should request
more information? If so, what information should be disclosed and why?

504.

Do you believe that there are activities of an NMS Stock ATS broker-dealer
operator and its affiliates that may give rise to potential conflicts of interest,
other than those described, that should be disclosed on Form ATS-N? If so, what
information should be disclosed and why? If so, what are they and why?

505.

Is there other information or data that would be useful for a market participant to
consider when evaluating an NMS Stock ATS as a potential trading center for its
orders? If so, what are they and why?

375

XII.

Paperwork Reduction Act
Certain provisions of the proposal contain ‘‘collection of information’’ requirements

within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (‘‘PRA’’). 561 The titles of these
requirements are:
•

Requirements for Alternative Trading Systems That Are Not National Securities
Exchanges – Rule 301, Form ATS and Form ATS-R, 17 CFR 242.301 (OMB
Control No. 3235-0509);

•

Rule 303 (17 CFR 242.303) Record Preservation Requirements for Alternative
Trading Systems (OMB Control No. 3235-0505).

•

Rule 304 and Form ATS-N (a proposed new collection of information).

We are submitting these requirements to the Office of Management and Budget (‘‘OMB’’) for
review and approval in accordance with the PRA and its implementing regulations. 562 We are
applying for an OMB control number for the proposed new collection of information in
accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11. If adopted, responses to the new
collection of information would be mandatory. An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a
person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently
valid OMB control number. 563

561

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

562

44 U.S.C. 3507; 5 CFR 1320.11.

563

5 CFR 1320.11(l).

376

A. Summary of Collection of Information
The proposed amendments to Regulation ATS include two new categories of obligations
that would require a collection of information within the meaning of the PRA. The first category
relates to Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS 564 and would apply to all ATSs, while the second
category relates to proposed Form ATS-N and would apply only to NMS Stock ATSs.
1.

Requirements Relating to Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS

Under Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS, all ATSs are currently required to: (1)
establish adequate safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading
information; and (2) adopt and implement adequate oversight procedures to ensure that the
safeguards and procedures established to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information are
followed. Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS further requires that the safeguards and
procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information shall include: (1) limiting
access to the confidential trading information of subscribers to those employees of the ATS who
are operating the system or responsible for its compliance with Regulation ATS or any other
applicable rules; and (2) implementing standards controlling employees of the ATS trading for
their own accounts. The proposed amendments to Regulation ATS would require written
safeguards and written procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information and
written oversight procedures to ensure that the safeguards and procedures are followed.
In addition, the Commission proposes to amend Rule 303(a)(1)565 of Regulation ATS to
provide that all ATSs must preserve at least one copy of their written safeguards and written

564

17 CFR 242.301(b)(10).

565

17 CFR 242.303(a)(1).

377

procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information and the written oversight
procedures created in the course of complying with Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS. Under
the proposed amendment, Rule 303(a)(1)(v) would be added to Regulation ATS to require an
ATS to preserve such written safeguards and written procedures, and written oversight
procedures for a period of not less than three years, the first two years in an easily accessible
place. 566
2.

Requirements Relating to Proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(viii) and 304 of
Regulation ATS, including Proposed Form ATS-N

As described above, the Commission proposes that any ATS that meets the definition of
an NMS Stock ATS would be required to complete Form ATS-N and file it with the Commission
in a structured format. 567 Upon the Commission declaring a Form ATS-N effective, the
Commission would make the Form ATS-N publicly available. The Commission would also
make publicly available upon filing all properly filed Form ATS-N Amendments and notices of
cessation on Form ATS-N. The proposed amendments to Regulation ATS would also require
each NMS Stock ATS to make public via posting on its website a direct URL hyperlink to the
Commission’s website that contains the documents enumerated in proposed Rule 304(b)(2).
Proposed Form ATS-N consists of five parts. First, the entity submitting the filing would
indicate whether it is submitting or withdrawing an initial filing. The entity would also indicate
the type of filing — whether the filing is a Form ATS-N, a Form ATS-N Amendment (whether a
material amendment, periodic amendment, or correcting amendment), or a notice of cessation,
and if it is a notice of cessation, the date the NMS Stock ATS will cease to operate. If the filing
566

Id.

567

See generally supra Section IV.

378

is a Form ATS-N Amendment, the NMS Stock ATS would also be required to provide a brief
narrative description of the amendment and a redline(s) showing changes to Part III and/or Part IV
of proposed Form ATS-N. Part I would require that entity to state the name of the Registered
Broker Dealer of the NMS Stock ATS (i.e., the broker-dealer operator), the name under which
the NMS Stock ATS conducts business, if any, the MPID of the NMS Stock ATS, and whether it
is an NMS Stock ATS currently operating pursuant to a previously filed initial operation report
on Form ATS. Part II would require registration information regarding the broker-dealer
operator of the ATS, such as the broker-dealer’s file number with the Commission, the name of
the national securities association with which the broker-dealer operator is a member, the
effective dates of the broker-dealer’s registration with the Commission and membership in the
national securities association, and the broker-dealer operator’s CRD Number. In addition, Part
II would require the address of the physical location of the NMS Stock ATS matching system,
the NMS Stock ATS’s mailing address, and a URL to the website of the NMS Stock ATS. Part
II would also require information regarding the legal status of the broker-dealer operator of the
NMS Stock ATS (e.g., corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship) and its date of formation.
Furthermore, Part II of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to attach the
following three exhibits: (1) Exhibit 1 – a copy of any materials currently provided to
subscribers or other persons related to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or the disclosures
on Form ATS-N; (2) Exhibit 2A – a copy of the most recently filed or amended Schedule A of
the broker-dealer operator’s Form BD disclosing information relating to direct owners and
executive officers; and (3) Exhibit 2B – a copy of the most recently filed or amended Schedule B
of the broker-dealer operator’s Form BD disclosing information related to indirect owners. In

379

lieu of attaching Exhibits 2A and 2B to proposed Form ATS-N, the NMS Stock ATSs would be
able to provide a URL address for where the required documents can be found.
Part III of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to provide certain
disclosures related to the activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates in connection
with the NMS Stock ATS. Part III consists of ten items, which are summarized here, and
explained in greater detail below in the discussion of the estimated burdens related to each
disclosure requirement. Part III of proposed Form ATS-N would include disclosures relating to:
(1) whether the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, operate or control any non-ATS
trading centers and how such non-ATS trading centers coordinate or interact with the NMS
Stock ATS, if at all; (2) whether the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, operates
another NMS Stock ATS and how such other NMS Stock ATS coordinates or interacts with the
NMS Stock ATS completing the Form ATS-N, if at all; (3) the products and services offered by
the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, to subscribers in connection with their use of
the NMS Stock ATS; (4) whether the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, has any
formal or informal arrangement with an unaffiliated person(s), or affiliate(s) of such person(s),
that operates a trading center regarding access to the NMS Stock ATS, including preferential
routing arrangements; (5) whether the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates enter orders
or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS and the manner in which such trading is done;
(6) whether the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates use a SOR(s) (or similar
functionality), an algorithm(s), or both to send or receive orders or other trading interest to or
from the NMS Stock ATS, and the interaction or coordination between the SOR(s) (or similar
functionality) or algorithm(s) and the NMS Stock ATS; (7) whether there are any employees of
the broker-dealer operator that service the operations of the NMS Stock ATS that also service
380

any other business unit(s) of the broker-dealer operator or any affiliate(s) other than the NMS
Stock ATS, and the roles and responsibilities of such shared employees; (8) whether any
operation, service, or function of the NMS Stock ATS is performed by any person(s) other than
the broker-dealer operator, a description of such operation, service, or function, and whether
those person(s), or any of their affiliates, may enter orders or other trading interest on the NMS
Stock ATS; (9) whether the NMS Stock ATS makes available or applies any service,
functionality, or procedure of the NMS Stock ATS to the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates
that is not available or does not apply to a subscriber(s) to the NMS Stock ATS and a description
of such service, functionality, or procedure; and (10) a description of the written safeguards and
written procedures to protect the confidential trading information of subscribers to the NMS
Stock ATS, including (a) a description of the means by which a subscriber can consent or
withdraw consent to the disclosure of confidential trading information, (b) identification of the
positions or titles of any persons that have access to confidential trading information, the type of
confidential trading information those persons can access, and the circumstances under which
they can access it, (c) a description of the written standards controlling employees of the NMS
Stock ATS trading for their own accounts, and (d) a description of the written oversight
procedures to ensure that the ATS’s Rule 301(b)(10) safeguards and procedures are implemented
and followed.
Part IV of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to provide certain
disclosures related to the manner of operations of the NMS Stock ATS. Part IV consists of 15
items, which are summarized here, and explained in greater detail below in the discussion of the
estimated burdens related to each disclosure requirement. Part IV of proposed Form ATS-N
would include disclosures relating to: (1) subscribers to the NMS Stock ATS, including any
381

eligibility requirements to gain access to the services of the ATS, the terms or conditions of any
contractual agreement for access, the types of subscribers and other persons that use the services
of the ATS, any formal or informal arrangement the NMS Stock ATS may have with a
subscriber or person to provide liquidity to the ATS (including the terms and conditions of each
arrangement and the identity of any liquidity provider that is an affiliate of the broker-dealer
operator), the circumstances by which a subscriber or other person may be limited or denied
access to the NMS Stock ATS, and any differences in the treatment of different subscribers and
persons with respect to eligibility, terms and conditions of use, criteria for distinguishing among
subscribers or other persons, and limitations and denials of access; (2) the days and hours of
operation of the NMS Stock ATS, including the times when orders or other trading interest are
entered and the time when pre-opening or after-hours trading occur, and whether there are any
differences in when orders or other trading interest may be entered by different subscribers or
persons; (3) the order types and modifiers entered on the NMS Stock ATS, including their
characteristics, operations, how they are ranked and executed on the ATS(such as priority vis-àvis other orders), eligibility and conditions for routing to other trading centers, the available
time-in-force instructions for each order type, whether the availability and terms and conditions
of each order type is the same for all subscribers and persons, any requirements and handling
procedures for minimum order sizes, odd-lot orders or mixed-lot orders, including whether such
requirements and procedures are the same for all subscribers and persons, and any messages sent
to or received by the NMS Stock ATS indicating trading interest, including any differences in the
terms and conditions for such messages for different subscribers and persons; (4) the means by
which subscribers and other persons connect to the NMS Stock ATS and enter orders or other
trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., direct FIX connection or indirect connection via
382

the broker-dealer operator’s SOR or any intermediate functionality, algorithm or sales desk); any
co-location services or other means by which any subscriber or other persons may enhance the
speed by which to send or receive orders, trading interest, or messages to or from the NMS Stock
ATS; and any differences in the terms and conditions for connecting and entering trading interest
or co-location services for different subscribers or persons; (5) the segmentation of orders or
other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS and notice about segmentation to subscribers or
persons, including the criteria used to segment orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock
ATS, any notice provided to subscribers or persons about the segmented category that a
subscriber or a person is assigned, any differences in segmentation (or notice about
segmentation) for different subscribers or persons, and order preferencing and its effect on order
priority and interaction; (6) the means and circumstances by which orders or other trading
interest on the NMS Stock ATS are displayed or made known outside the NMS Stock ATS, type
of information displayed, any differences in display for different subscribers and persons, and to
whom orders and trading interest is displayed; (7) the trading services of the NMS Stock ATS,
including the means used by the ATS to bring multiple buy and sell orders together, the
established, non-discretionary methods dictating the terms of trading on the facilities of the NMS
Stock ATS, trading procedures related to price protection mechanisms, short sales, lockedcrossed markets, the handling of execution errors, time-stamping of orders and executions, or
price improvement functionality, and any differences for different subscribers and persons; (8)
the procedures governing trading in the event the NMS Stock ATS suspends trading or
experiences a system disruption or malfunction, including any differences in the procedures
among subscribers and persons; (9) the opening, reopening or closing processes, or after-hours
trading procedures of the NMS Stock ATS; (10) the circumstances under which orders or other
383

trading interest are routed from the NMS Stock ATS to another trading center, and any
differences in the means by which orders are routed among subscribers and persons; (11) the
market data used by the NMS Stock ATS and the source of that market data, and the specific
purpose for which market data is used by the ATS, including how it is used to determine the
NBBO; (12) the fees, rebates, or other charges of the NMS Stock ATS and whether such fees are
not the same for all subscribers and persons; (13) arrangements or procedures for trade reporting
of transactions on the NMS Stock ATS, and arrangements or procedures undertaken by the NMS
Stock ATS to facilitate the clearance and settlement of transaction on the ATS, including any
differences in these procedures among subscribers and persons; (14) information related to the
NMS Stock ATS’s order display and execution obligations under Rule 301(b)(3) of Regulation
ATS, if applicable; (15) information related to the NMS Stock ATS’s obligations under the fair
access requirements of Rule 301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS, if applicable; and (16) aggregate
market quality statistics published or provided to one or more subscribers.
Part V of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to provide certain
basic information about the point of contact for the NMS Stock ATS, such as the point of
contact’s name, title, telephone number and email address. Part V would also require the NMS
Stock ATS to consent to service of any civil action brought by, or any notice of any proceeding
before, the Commission or an SRO in connection with the ATS’s activities.
The Commission proposes that Form ATS-N would be filed electronically and require an
electronic signature. Consequently, the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS would require
that every NMS Stock ATS have the ability to file forms electronically with an electronic
signature. The Commission preliminarily believes that most, if not all, ATSs that transact in
NMS stock currently have the ability to access and submit an electronic form such that the
384

requirement to file Form ATS-N electronically with an electronic signature would not impose
new implementation costs. The burdens related to electronic submission and providing an
electronic signature are included in the burden hour estimates provided below.
In addition, the Commission proposes to amend Rule 303(a)(2)(ii) 568 of Regulation ATS
to provide that all ATSs must preserve copies of all reports filed pursuant to Rule 304, which
includes Form ATS-N filings, for the life of the enterprise and any successor enterprise.
Furthermore, under this proposal, an ATS that effects transactions in both NMS stocks
and non-NMS stocks would be required to file both a Form ATS-N with respect to its trading of
NMS stocks and a revised Form ATS that removes discussion of those aspects of the ATS
related to the trading of NMS stocks. The ATS would also be required to file two Forms ATS-R
– one to report its trading volume in NMS stocks and another to report its trading volume in nonNMS stocks.
B. Proposed Use of Information
1.

Proposed Amendments to Rules 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS

As noted above, the proposed amendments to Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS would
require all ATSs to have in place written safeguards and written procedures to protect
subscribers’ confidential trading information. Proposed Rule 303(a)(1)(v) of Regulation ATS
would require all ATSs to preserve at least one copy of those written safeguards and written
procedures.
The Commission preliminarily believes that both the Commission and the SRO of which
the ATS’s broker dealer-operator is a member will use these written safeguards and written
568

17 CFR 242.303(a)(2)(ii).

385

procedures in order to better understand how each ATS protects subscribers’ confidential trading
information from unauthorized disclosure and access. The Commission preliminarily believes
that the information contained in the records required to be preserved by proposed Rule
303(a)(1)(v) would be used by examiners and other representatives of the Commission, state
securities regulatory authorities, and SROs to evaluate whether ATSs are in compliance with
Regulation ATS as well as other applicable rules and regulations. The Commission also
preliminarily believes that the proposed requirements to memorialize in writing the safeguards
and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information would assist ATSs in
more effectively complying with their existing legal requirements under Regulation ATS; in
particular, the requirements to protect the confidentiality of subscribers’ trading information
under Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS.
2.

Proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(viii), 304 of Regulation ATS, Including Proposed
Form ATS-N, and 301(b)(9)

Proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(viii) and 304 of Regulation ATS would require each NMS
Stock ATS to file a Form ATS-N, Form ATS-N Amendments, and a notice of cessation on
proposed Form ATS-N.569 As noted above, proposed Form ATS-N would require information
569

Specifically, proposed Rule 304(a)(1) would require an NMS Stock ATS to file a Form
ATS-N prior to the NMS Stock ATS commencing operations. Proposed Rule
304(a)(2)(i) would require an NMS Stock ATS to file amendments to its proposed Form
ATS-N: (A) At least 30 calendar days prior to the date of implementation of a material
change to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or to the activities of the broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates that are subject to disclosure on Form ATS-N; (B) within 30
calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter to correct any other information on
proposed Form ATS-N that has become inaccurate; or (C) promptly, to correct any
information on proposed Form ATS-N that was inaccurate when originally filed.
Proposed Rule 304(a)(3) would require an NMS Stock ATS to notice its cessation of
operations at least 10 business days before the date on which the NMS Stock ATS ceases
operation.

386

regarding the broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS and, in some instances affiliates of
the broker-dealer operator, and the operation of the NMS Stock ATS, including detailed
disclosures regarding the ATS’s method of operation, order types and access criteria.
Additionally, an ATS that effects transactions in both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks would
be required to file both a Form ATS-N with respect to its trading of NMS stocks and a revised
Form ATS that removes discussion of those aspects of the ATS relating to the trading of NMS
stocks. 570 Under the proposed amendments to Rule 301(b)(9), an ATS that effects trades in both
NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks would be required to file two Forms ATS-Rs – one reporting
its trading volume in NMS stocks and the other reporting its trading volume in non-NMS
stocks. 571 The information filed on proposed Form ATS-N would be publicly available on the
Commission’s website and each NMS Stock ATS would be required to post on the NMS Stock
ATS’s website a direct URL hyperlink to the Commission’s website that contains the documents
enumerated in proposed Rule 304(b)(2), but information filed on Forms ATS and ATS-R would
be kept confidential, subject to the provisions of current applicable law.
The Commission preliminarily believes that market participants would use the
information publicly disclosed on proposed Form ATS-N to source, evaluate, and compare and
contrast information about different NMS Stock ATSs, including information relating to the
broker-dealer operator and any potential conflicts of interests it may have with respect to its
operation of the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission also preliminarily believes that market
participants would use the information publicly disclosed on proposed Form ATS-N to source,

570

See proposed Rule 301(b)(2)(viii).

571

See proposed Rule 301(b)(9).

387

evaluate, and compare and contrast information about, among other things, an NMS Stock ATS’s
eligibility requirements, trading hours, order types, connection and order entry functionalities,
segmentation of order flow, display of orders and other trading interests, trading platform
functionality, procedures governing trading during a suspension of trading, system disruption, or
system malfunction, opening, closing, and after-hours trading processes or procedures, routing
procedures, market data usages and sources, fees, trade reporting, clearing, and settlement, order
display and execution access standards, fair access standards, and market quality statistics
published or provided to one or more subscribers. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily
believes that market participants would use the information disclosed on proposed Form ATS-N
to better evaluate to which trading venue they may want to subscribe and/or route orders for
execution in order to accomplish their investing or trading objectives.
The Commission preliminarily believes it will use the information disclosed on proposed
Form ATS-N, Form ATS, and Form ATS-R to oversee the growth and development of NMS
Stock ATSs, including those that also effect transactions in non-NMS stocks, and to evaluate
whether those systems operate in a manner consistent with the federal securities laws should the
disclosures provided on Form ATS-N reveal potential non-compliance with federal securities
laws. In particular, the Commission preliminarily believes that the information collected and
reported to the Commission by NMS Stock ATSs would enable the Commission to evaluate
better the operations of NMS Stock ATSs with regard to the Commission’s duty under the
Exchange Act to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanisms of a national market

388

system for securities 572 and evaluate the competitive effects of these systems to ascertain
whether the regulatory framework remains appropriate to the operation of such systems. The
information provided on Form ATS-N should also assist the SRO for the broker-dealer operator
in exercising oversight over the broker-dealer operator. For example, by having to describe their
safeguards and procedures to protect the confidential trading information of subscribers, and
knowing that such descriptions will be public, NMS Stock ATSs may be encouraged to carefully
consider the adequacy of their means of protecting the confidential trading information of
subscribers.
The Commission also proposes to amend Rule 303(a)(2)(ii) of Regulation ATS to
provide that all ATSs must preserve copies of all reports filed pursuant to proposed Rule 304 for
the life of the enterprise and any successor enterprise. The Commission preliminarily believes
that the information contained in the records required to be preserved by the proposed
amendment to Rule 303(a)(2)(ii) would be used by examiners and other representatives of the
Commission, state securities regulatory authorities, and SROs to evaluate whether ATSs are in
compliance with Regulation ATS as well as other applicable rules and regulations.
C. Respondents
The “collection of information” requirements under the proposed amendments to
Regulation ATS relating to Rule 301(b)(10) and proposed Rule 303(a)(1)(v), as described above,
would apply to all ATSs, including NMS Stock ATSs. The “collection of information”
requirements under the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS relating to proposed Rule 304,
572

See 15 U.S.C. 78b (providing that the necessity for the Exchange Act is, among other
things, “to require appropriate reports, to remove impediments to and perfect the
mechanisms of a national market system for securities . . . and to impose requirements
necessary to make such regulation and control reasonably complete and effective . . .”).

389

Form ATS-N, and the proposed amendments to Rule 303(a)(2)(ii), as described above, would
apply only to NMS Stock ATSs, and the “collection of information” requirements under the
proposed amendments to Rule 301(b)(9), as described above, would apply to NMS Stock ATSs
that also effect trades in both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks.
Currently, there are 84 ATSs that have filed Form ATS with the Commission. Of these
84 ATSs, 46 would meet the definition of an NMS Stock ATS. 573 Accordingly, the Commission
estimates that 84 entities would be required to comply with the proposed amendments related to
Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS and 46 entities would be required to complete Form ATSN. 574
In addition, the Commission notes that there are currently 11 ATSs that trade, or have
indicated in Exhibit B to their Form ATS that they expect to trade, both NMS stocks and nonNMS stocks on the ATS. 575 Under the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS, these 11

573

Data compiled from Form ATS submitted to the Commission as of November 1, 2015.
That is, 46 ATS have disclosed on their Form ATS that they trade or expect to trade NMS
stock.

574

The Commission recognizes that there may be new entities that will seek to become
ATSs, or NMS Stock ATSs, that would be required to comply with the proposed
amendments to Rule 301(b)(10). From 2012 through the first half of 2015, there has
been an average of 8 Form ATS initial operation reports filed each year with the
Commission. Similarly, there may be some ATSs that may cease operations in the
normal course of business or possibly in response to the proposed amendments to
Regulation ATS. From 2012 through the first half of 2015, there has been an average of
11 ATSs, including those that trade NMS stocks, that have ceased operations. For the
purposes of this paperwork burden analysis, the Commission assumes that there are 84
respondents that would be required to comply with the proposed amendments to Rule
301(b)(10), if adopted. The Commission is estimating that the number of entities that
may file a Form ATS initial operation report would generally offset any ATSs that may
file a Form ATS cessation of operations report.

575

Data compiled from Forms ATS and ATS-R submitted to the Commission as of
November 1, 2015. These 11 ATSs are included within the 46 NMS Stock ATSs.

390

entities would be required to file a Form ATS-N to disclose information about their NMS stock
activities and file a Form ATS to disclose information about their non-NMS stock activities.
Consequently, these 11 ATSs would have to amend their Forms ATS to remove discussion of
those aspects of the ATS related to the trading of NMS stocks and on an ongoing basis, file
separate Forms ATS-R to report trading volume in NMS stocks and trading volume in non-NMS
stocks. 576
With respect to proposed Form ATS-N, the Commission recognizes there may be entities
that might file a Form ATS-N to operate an NMS Stock ATS in the future. From 2012 through
the first half of 2015, there has been an average of 2 new ATSs per year that disclose that they trade
or expect to trade NMS stocks on their initial operation reports, which would therefore fall within
the proposed definition of an NMS Stock ATS. Similarly, some ATSs that currently trade NMS
stocks may choose to cease operations rather than comply with the proposed amendments requiring
them to file proposed Form ATS-N. Other ATSs may choose to cease operations in the normal
course of business. From 2012 through the first half of 2015, there has been an average of 6 ATSs
that trade NMS stocks that have ceased operations each year.
The Commission preliminarily believes that most ATSs that currently trade NMS stocks
would continue to operate notwithstanding the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS. For the
purposes of this analysis of the paperwork burden associated with the proposed amendments to

576

Pursuant to Rule 301(b)(9), all ATSs are required to file Form ATS-R within 30 calendar
days after the end of each calendar quarter in which the market has operated, and within
10 calendar days after the ATS ceases to operate. For ATSs that trade both NMS stocks
and non-NMS stocks, the ATS would report its transactions in NMS stocks on one Form
ATS-R, and its transaction volume in other securities on a separate Form ATS-R.

391

Regulation ATS, the Commission assumes that there will be 46 respondents. The Commission
preliminarily believes that this number is reasonable, as it assumes that most ATSs that currently
trade NMS stocks would file a Form ATS-N with the Commission, and acknowledges that there
may be some ATSs that cease operations altogether and other entities that may choose to commence
operations as an NMS Stock ATS. Based on the number of initial filings and cessation of
operations reports on current Form ATS for ATSs that trade NMS stocks described above, the
Commission estimates that, 2 to 3 new entities will file to become an NMS Stock ATS and 4 to 6
NMS Stock ATSs will cease operations in each of the next three years.
D. Total Initial and Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burdens
1.

Proposed Rules 301(b)(10) and 303(a)(1)(v) of Regulation ATS
a. Baseline Measurements

Under current Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS, 577 all ATSs must establish adequate
safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information, as well as
oversight procedures to ensure such safeguards and procedures are followed. As discussed
below, the Commission preliminarily believes that ATSs – in particular, ATSs whose brokerdealer operators are large, multi-service broker-dealers – generally have and maintain in writing
their safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information, as well
as the oversight procedures to ensure such safeguards and procedures are followed. 578 However,
neither Rule 301(b)(10) nor Rule 303(a)(1) of Regulation ATS currently requires that an ATS
have and preserve those safeguards and procedures in writing.

577

17 CFR 242.301(b)(10).

578

See infra Section XIII.B.4.

392

For ATSs that currently have and preserve in written format the safeguards and
procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information under Rule 301(b)(10) of
Regulation ATS, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the average annual burden they
voluntarily undertake to update and preserve those written safeguards and written procedures is 4
hours. 579 Because neither current Rule 301(b)(1) nor current Rule 303(a)(1) requires an ATS to
have and preserve its safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading
information in writing, this burden is not reflected in the current PRA baseline burdens for Rules
301 and 303. 580 As such, in accordance with the below analysis, the Commission would modify
the current PRA burdens for Rules 301 and 303 to account for the proposed requirement that
ATSs have and preserve in written format the safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’
confidential trading information. 581
b. Burden
The Commission recognizes that proposed Rules 301(b)(10) and 303(a)(1)(v) of
Regulation ATS would impose certain burdens on respondents. For ATSs that currently have
and preserve in written format the safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential
trading information and written oversight procedures to ensure such safeguards and procedures

579

Attorney at 2 hours + Compliance Clerk at 2 hours = 4 burden hours. For ATSs that do
not have their safeguards and procedures or oversight procedures in a written format,
these firms would incur a one-time initial burden to record their safeguards and
procedures as well as their oversight procedures in a written format as described below.

580

See FR Doc. 2014-02143, 79 FR 6236 (February 3, 2014) (Request to OMB for
Extension of Rule 301 and Forms ATS and ATS-R; SEC File No. 270-451; OMB
Control No. 3235-0509) (hereinafter “Rule 301 PRA Update”); FR Doc. 2013-17474, 78
FR 43943 (July 22, 2013) (Request to OMB for Extension of Rule 303; SEC File No.
270-450; OMB Control No. 3235-0505) (hereinafter “Rule 303 PRA Update”).

581

See infra note 587 and accompanying text.

393

are followed, the Commission preliminarily believes that there will be no increased burden under
the proposed amendments to Rules 301(b)(10) and 303(a)(1)(v) of Regulation ATS. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the current practices of those ATSs would already be in
compliance with the proposed rules. Therefore, the proposed amendments should not require
those ATSs to take any measures or actions in addition to those currently undertaken.
For ATSs that have not recorded in writing their safeguards and procedures to protect
subscribers’ confidential trading information and oversight procedures to ensure such safeguards
and procedures are followed, there will be an initial, one-time burden to memorialize them in a
written document(s). The Commission preliminarily estimates that an ATS’s initial, one-time
burden to put in writing its safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading
information and the oversight procedures to ensure such safeguards and procedures are followed
would be approximately 8 hours, 582 but the Commission preliminarily estimates that the burden
could range between 5 and 10 hours. 583 Because ATSs are already required to have safeguards
and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information and to have oversight
procedures to ensure such safeguards and procedures are followed, the Commission preliminarily
believes that recording these items in a written format would not impose a substantial burden on
ATSs. Consequently, the Commission preliminarily believes that ATSs would rely on internal
staff to record the ATS’s Rule 301(b)(10) procedures in writing. The Commission preliminarily
estimates that, of the 84 current ATSs, 15 ATSs might not have their safeguards and procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential trading information or oversight procedures to ensure such

582

Attorney at 7 hours + Compliance Clerk at 1 hour = 8 burden hours.

583

Attorney at 4-9 hours + Compliance Clerk at 1 hour = 5-10 burden hours.

394

safeguards and procedures are followed in writing, and would therefore be subject to this one-time
initial burden. 584 Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the aggregate initial,
one-time burden on all ATSs would be 150 hours based on the Commission’s highest
approximation of the additional burden per ATS. 585
As explained above, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the average annual,
ongoing burden per ATS to update and preserve written safeguards and written procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential trading information, as well as to update and preserve the written
standards controlling employees of the ATS trading for their own account and the written oversight
procedures, would be 4 hours. 586 As a result, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the total
aggregate, ongoing burden per year for all ATSs would be 336 hours, 587 and thus, the Commission
is modifying the current PRA burden estimates for Rules 301 and 303 to account for this
increased burden on ATSs.
2.

Proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(viii) and 304 of Regulation ATS, including
Proposed Form ATS-N
a. Baseline Measurements

584

It is likely that most, if not all, ATSs fulfill their Rule 301(b)(10) obligations in writing,
given the practical difficulty in ensuring such safeguards and procedures, as well as
oversight procedures, are “adequate,” as required under Rule 301(b)(10), and contain all
necessary components. The Commission solicits comment on the accuracy of this
estimate.

585

(Attorney at 9 hours + Compliance Clerk at 1 hour) x (15 ATSs) = 150 burden hours.
See supra note 583 and accompanying text.

586

See supra note 579 and accompanying text.

587

(Attorney at 2 hours + Compliance Clerk at 2 hours) x 84 ATSs = 336 burden hours.

395

Currently, Rule 301(b)(2)(i) of Regulation ATS 588 requires an ATS to file an initial
operation report on current Form ATS at least 20 days prior to commencing operation as an
alternative trading system. Current Form ATS requires information regarding the operation of
the ATS, including, among other things, classes of subscribers, the types of securities traded, the
outsourcing of operations of the ATS to other entities, the procedures governing the entry of
orders, the means of access to the ATS, and procedures governing execution and reporting.
Regarding amendments to an existing Form ATS, Rule 301(b)(2)(ii) of Regulation ATS 589
requires an ATS to file amendments to its current Form ATS at least 20 calendar days prior to
implementing a material change to its operations. Rule 301(b)(2)(iii) of Regulation ATS 590
requires an ATS to file amendments to its current Form ATS within 30 calendar days after the
end of each calendar quarter if any information contained in its initial operation report becomes
inaccurate and has not been previously reported to the Commission. 591 Regarding shutting down
an ATS, Rule 301(b)(2)(v) of Regulation ATS 592 requires an ATS to promptly file a cessation of
operation report on current Form ATS upon ceasing operations as an ATS.
The Commission’s currently approved estimate for an initial operation report on current
Form ATS is 20 hours to gather the necessary information, provide the required disclosures in

588

17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(i).

589

17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(ii).

590

17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(iii).

591

In addition, Rule 301(b)(2)(iv) requires an ATS to promptly file an amendment on
current Form ATS after the discovery that any information previously filed on current
Form ATS was inaccurate when filed. 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(iv).

592

17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(v).

396

Exhibits A through I, and submit the Form ATS to the Commission. 593 With respect to Form ATS
amendments, the Commission understands, based on the review of Form ATS amendments by the
Commission and its staff, that ATSs that trade NMS stocks typically amend their Form ATS on
average twice per year. 594 The frequency and scope of Form ATS amendments vary depending on
whether the ATS is implementing a material change or a periodic change. Some ATSs may not
change the manner in which they operate or anything else that might require an amendment to Form
ATS in a given year while others may implement a number of changes during a given year that
require Form ATS amendments. The Commission estimates that the current average compliance
burden for each amendment to Form ATS is approximately 6 hours. 595 Accordingly, the estimated
average annual ongoing burden of updating and amending Form ATS is approximately 12 hours per
NMS Stock ATS. 596 With respect to ceasing operations, the currently approved average estimated
compliance burden for an ATS to complete a cessation of operations report is 2 hours to check the
appropriate box on Form ATS and send the cessation of operations report to the Commission. 597
The Commission’s currently approved estimate for the average compliance burden for each
Form ATS-R filing is 4 hours. 598
b. Burdens

593

Attorney at 13 hours + Compliance Clerk at 7 hours = 20 burden hours. See Rule 301
PRA Update, supra note 580, 79 FR 6237.

594

See id.

595

Attorney at 4.5 hours + Compliance Clerk at 1.5 hours = 6 burden hours. See id.

596

2 Form ATS Amendments filed annually x 6 burden hours per Form ATS Amendment =
12 burden hours per ATS.

597

Attorney at 1.5 hours + Compliance Clerk at 0.5 hours = 2 burden hours. See id.

598

Attorney at 3 hours + Compliance Clerk at 1 hour = 4 burden hours. See id.

397

The Commission recognizes that proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(viii) and 304 of Regulation
ATS, including proposed Form ATS-N, would impose certain burdens on respondents. 599
Although the Commission preliminarily believes that many of the disclosures required by
proposed Form ATS-N are currently required by Form ATS, proposed Form ATS-N would
require an NMS Stock ATS to provide significantly more detail in those disclosures than
currently is required by Form ATS. Proposed Form ATS-N would also require additional
disclosures not currently mandated by current Form ATS such as those contained in Part III of
proposed Form ATS-N. Under the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS, NMS Stock ATSs
would be required to complete and file the enhanced and additional disclosures on proposed
Form ATS-N. 600 Section XII.D.2.b.i below provides the estimated burden above the current
Form ATS baseline of each item of proposed Form ATS-N. The Commission notes that many of
the proposed disclosure items on proposed Form ATS-N are already required disclosures by
respondents in whole or in part on current Form ATS, while other disclosure items on proposed
Form ATS-N are novel (i.e., current Form ATS does not require some form of the proposed
disclosure). Section XII.D.2.b.ii aggregates these new burdens and the additional burdens above
the current Form ATS baseline that will be imposed by proposed Form ATS-N.

599

In establishing the estimates below with respect to proposed Form ATS-N, the
Commission has considered its estimate of the burden for an SRO to amend a Form 19b4. Specifically, the Commission estimated that 34 hours is the amount of time required to
complete an average rule filing and 129 hours is the amount of time required to complete
a complex rule filing, and three hours is the amount of time required to complete an
average amendment to a rule filing. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 50486
(October 4, 2004), 69 FR 60287 (October 8, 2004), 60294.

600

These disclosures would be provided on proposed Form ATS-N and may have to be
amended periodically as provided in proposed Rule 304.

398

i. Analysis of Estimated Additional Burden for Proposed Form ATS-N
Parts I and II of proposed Form ATS-N would require disclosure of certain general
information regarding the broker-dealer operator and the NMS Stock ATS. Part I of proposed
Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to state the name of its broker-dealer operator,
the name under which the NMS Stock ATS conducts business, if any, the MPID of the NMS
Stock ATS, and whether it is an NMS Stock ATS operating pursuant to a previously filed initial
operation report on Form ATS. Part II of proposed Form ATS-N would require the address of
the physical location of the NMS Stock ATS matching system and the NMS Stock ATS’s
mailing address. Part II of proposed Form ATS-N would also require registration information of
the broker-dealer operator, including its SEC File Number, the effective date of the broker-dealer
operator’s registration with the Commission, its CRD Number, the name of its national securities
association, and the effective date of the broker-dealer operator’s membership with the national
securities association. In addition, Part II of proposed Form ATS-N would require disclosure of
certain information regarding the legal status of the broker-dealer operator and would require the
NMS Stock ATS to provide a URL address to its website. Finally, Part II would require the
NMS Stock ATS to attach Exhibit 1 (a copy of any materials provided to subscribers or any
other persons related to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or the disclosures on Form ATSN), Exhibit 2A (a copy of the most recently filed or amended Schedule A of the broker-dealer
operator’s Form BD disclosing information related to direct owners and executive officers), and
Exhibit 2B (a copy of the most recently filed or amended Schedule B of the broker-dealer
operator’s Form BD disclosing information related to indirect owners). In lieu of attaching those
exhibits to Form ATS-N, the NMS Stock ATSs would be able to provide a URL address to
where the required documents can be found.
399

Under current Form ATS, an ATS is required to provide all of the information that would
be required under Parts I and II of proposed Form ATS-N with the exception of: (1) its website
address; (2) the effective date of the broker-dealer operator’s registration with the Commission;
(3) the name of the national securities association and effective date of the broker-dealer
operator’s membership with the national securities association; (4) the MPID of the NMS Stock
ATS; (5) the broker-dealer operator’s legal status (e.g., corporation or partnership); (6) the date
of formation and the state in which the broker-dealer operator was formed; and (7) copies of the
broker-dealer operator’s most recently filed or amended Schedules A and B of Form BD. 601
Current Form ATS, however, requires an ATS to provide a copy of its governing documents,
such as its constitution and bylaws, 602 which would not be required in proposed Form ATS-N.
The Commission preliminarily believes that all ATSs currently have access to all of these items
because such information is germane to the operation of its broker-dealer operator. Accordingly,
the Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Parts I and II for a Form
ATS-N would add 0.5 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form
ATS. The aggregate initial burden on all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Parts I and II of
proposed Form ATS-N would be 23 hours above the current baseline. 603
Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
whether or not the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates operate or control any non-ATS

601

Exhibit I of Current Form ATS requires ATS to provide a list with the full legal name of
those direct owners reported on Schedule A of Form BD, but not a copy of Schedule A.

602

Exhibit D of Form ATS requires an ATS to provide a copy of its constitution, articles of
incorporation or association, with all amendments, and of the existing bylaws or
corresponding rules or instruments, whatever the name.

603

Compliance Clerk at 0.5 hours x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 23 burden hours.

400

trading center(s), and if so, to (1) identify the non-ATS trading center(s); and (2) describe any
interaction or coordination between the identified non-ATS trading center(s) and the NMS Stock
ATS including: (i) circumstances under which subscriber orders or other trading interest sent to
the NMS Stock ATS are displayed or otherwise made known to the identified non-ATS trading
center(s) before entering the NMS Stock ATS; (ii) circumstances under which subscriber orders
or other trading interest received by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates may execute, in
whole or in part, in the identified non-ATS trading center(s) before entering the NMS Stock
ATS; and (iii) circumstances under which orders or other trading interest are removed from the
NMS Stock ATS and sent to the identified non-ATS trading center(s). Under Proposed Form
ATS-N, affiliates of the broker-dealer operator would only include any person that, directly or
indirectly, controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by, the broker-dealer
operator. The affiliates of the broker-dealer operator that might operate non-ATS trading centers
under this proposal would thus be “control affiliates” that are either controlled by the brokerdealer operator or under common control with another entity. Consequently, because the brokerdealer operator would control all affiliates or would be under common control with those
affiliates, the broker-dealer operator should be aware of whether its affiliates operate a non-ATS
trading center or in most instances, should otherwise be able to readily obtain such information
from its affiliates. 604
To the extent the operation of a non-ATS trading center operated or controlled by the
broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates does not interact with the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., the
604

To the extent the broker-dealer operator is currently unaware of whether its affiliates
operate a non-ATS trading center, the Commission preliminarily believes that the brokerdealer operator could readily obtain this information from its affiliates.

401

two platforms do not share order flow or route trading interest between one another), the
proposed disclosure requirement in Part III, Item 1, would require only that the NMS Stock ATS
identify the non-ATS trading center in Item 1(a) and note that that there is no interaction between
the non-ATS trading center and the NMS Stock ATS in Item 1(b). To the extent the operation of
a non-ATS trading center of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates interacts with the NMS
Stock ATS, the Commission preliminarily believes that the NMS Stock ATS would likely
already be aware of how such operation may interact with the NMS Stock ATS. If there is
substantial interaction between the non-ATS trading center and the NMS Stock ATS, the burden
related to this disclosure would be higher.
The Commission understands that most, but not all, broker-dealer operators of NMS
Stock ATSs currently, either by themselves or through their affiliates, operate or control a nonATS trading center. The Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part
III, Item 1 for a Form ATS-N would add 10 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation
report on current Form ATS. This would result in an aggregate initial burden of 460 hours above
the baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part III, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N. 605
Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to state
whether the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, operates one or more NMS Stock
ATSs other than the NMS Stock ATS named on the Form ATS-N, and, if so, to (1) identify the
NMS Stock ATS(s) and provide its MPID(s); and (2) describe any interaction or coordination
between the NMS Stock ATS(s) identified and the NMS Stock ATS named on the Form ATS-N
including: (i) the circumstances under which subscriber orders or other trading interest received
605

(Attorney at 8 hours + Compliance Manager at 2 hours) x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 460
burden hours.

402

by the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates to be sent to the NMS Stock ATS named in
the Form ATS-N may be sent to any identified NMS Stock ATS(s); (ii) circumstances under
which subscriber orders or other trading interest to be sent to the NMS Stock ATS named on the
Form ATS-N are displayed or otherwise made known in any other identified NMS Stock
ATS(s); and (iii) the circumstances under which a subscriber order received by the NMS Stock
ATS named on the Form ATS-N may be removed and sent to any other identified NMS Stock
ATS(s). Broker-dealer operators of multiple NMS Stock ATSs would already be aware of how
their NMS Stock ATSs may interact with one another and those of its affiliates by, for example,
sharing order flow between each other. 606 Further, as noted above, affiliates under this proposed
disclosure requirement would be control affiliates that are either controlled by the broker-dealer
operator or under common control with another entity. Consequently, the NMS Stock ATS
should already be aware through its control or common control of whether its affiliates operate
another NMS Stock ATS.
Based on the currently filed Forms ATS reviewed by the Commission during the third
quarter of 2015, the Commission estimates that there are 6 broker-dealer operators that operate,
by themselves or through an affiliate, multiple ATSs that trade NMS stocks. The Commission
notes that broker-dealer operators operating multiple NMS Stock ATSs, by themselves or with
their affiliates, would be required to complete Part III, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N for each
NMS Stock ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that it would not be a significant
burden for a broker-dealer operator to identify all of the NMS Stock ATSs operated by either
606

To the extent the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates operate multiple NMS Stock
ATSs but there is no possibility of interaction between such NMS Stock ATSs, proposed
Form ATS-N would only require that this fact be noted in Part III, Item 2(b).

403

itself or its affiliates because, among other reasons, FINRA maintains an updated list of ATSs
that trade equity securities on its public website. 607 Furthermore, the disclosure requirement in
Part III, Item 2(b) to describe the interaction of the various NMS Stock ATSs should generally
be the same for each NMS Stock ATS, reducing the overall hour burden for completing multiple
Forms ATS-N. 608 The Commission also notes that the disclosure requirement in Part III, Item 2
would not impose any significant burden on broker-dealer operators that, by themselves or with
their affiliates, do not operate multiple NMS Stock ATSs. For broker-dealer operators operating
multiple NMS Stock ATSs, by themselves or with their affiliates, the Commission preliminarily
estimates that, on average, preparing Part III, Item 2 for a Form ATS-N would add 4 hours to the
current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS. This would result in an
aggregate initial hourly burden on such broker-dealer operators of 24 hours above the current
baseline. 609
Part III, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
whether or not the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates offer subscribers of the NMS
Stock ATS any products or services used in connection with trading on the NMS Stock ATS
(e.g., algorithmic trading products, market data feeds). If so, the NMS Stock ATS would be
required to describe the products and services and identify the types of subscribers (e.g., retail,
607

See FINRA Equity ATS Firm List, https://www.finra.org/file/finra-equity-ats-firms-list.

608

In other words, a broker-dealer operator that operates NMS Stock ATSs “A” and “B”
would likely be able to use the disclosure in A’s Form ATS-N for Part III, Item 2 for B as
well.

609

As noted above, the Commission estimates that there are currently approximately 6
broker-dealer operators that operate, by themselves or through an affiliate, multiple ATSs
that trade NMS stocks. As such the increased burden would be calculated as follows: 6
operators of multiple NMS Stock ATSs x (Attorney at 2 hours + Senior Systems Analyst
2 hours) = 24 burden hours.

404

institutional, professional) to which such services or products are offered, and if the terms and
conditions of the services or products are not the same for all subscribers, describe any
differences. These products and services may vary widely across NMS Stock ATSs, some of
which may offer no additional products or services in connection with access to the NMS Stock
ATS and others that may offer a wide array of other products or services such as trading
algorithms, order management systems, or market data services. Because the broker-dealer
operator controls all aspects of the NMS Stock ATS, it should already be aware of all the
products and services that it or its affiliates provide to subscribers in connection with
subscribers’ access to the ATS. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that listing
and describing these products and services in Part III, Item 3 would not impose a substantial
burden on respondents. In addition, Part III, Item 3 would also require the NMS Stock ATS to
describe which products and services are offered to which type of subscriber and any differences
in the terms or conditions of the services or products among subscribers. Depending on the
extent to which the terms and conditions of the services or products vary among subscribers, the
hourly burden related to completing Part III, Item 3 would likely vary. The Commission
preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part III, Item 3 for a Form ATS-N would add
3 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS. This would
result in an aggregate initial burden of 138 hours above the current baseline for all NMS Stock
ATSs to complete Part III, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N. 610
Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
whether or not the broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates have any formal or informal
610

(Compliance Manager at 2 hours + Senior Marketing Manager at 1 hour) x 46 NMS
Stock ATSs = 138 burden hours.

405

arrangement with an unaffiliated person(s), or affiliate(s) of such person, that operates a trading
center regarding access to the NMS Stock ATS, including preferential routing arrangements,
and, if so, to identify the person(s) and the trading center(s) and describe the terms of the
arrangement(s). The Commission understands from discussions with ATSs that some ATSs that
currently trade NMS stock have arrangements with other ATSs to provide mutual access to the
each other’s respective ATSs. The Commission recognizes that an NMS Stock ATS could also
have arrangements with other trading centers such as a non-ATS trading center or a national
securities exchange. In addition, there may be NMS Stock ATSs that have no arrangements with
any other trading center. As the broker-dealer operator controls all aspects of the operation of
the NMS Stock ATS, the broker-dealer operator should already be aware of any such
arrangements providing for mutual access or preferential routing that it has with other trading
centers. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part
III, Item 4 for a Form ATS-N would add 4 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation
report on current Form ATS. This would result in an aggregate initial burden of 184 hours above
the current baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part III, Item 4 of proposed Form ATSN. 611
Part III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N would require certain disclosures related to the
trading activity of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates on the NMS Stock ATS.
Specifically, Part III, Item 5 would require the NMS Stock ATS to disclose whether or not the
broker-dealer operator or any of its affiliates enters orders or other trading interest on the NMS

611

(Attorney at 2 hours + Compliance Manager at 2 hours) x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 184
burden hours.

406

Stock ATS, and, if so, to provide detailed disclosures describing such trading activity. 612 As the
broker-dealer operator controls all aspects of the operation of the NMS Stock ATS, the brokerdealer operator should already know all of the subscribers to the NMS Stock ATS, including any
affiliates that trade on the ATS, whether the broker-dealer operator itself trades on the NMS
Stock ATS, and how the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates trade on the NMS Stock ATS.613
The Commission preliminarily believes that this knowledge should allow NMS Stock ATSs to
readily identify and list all affiliates that trade on the NMS Stock ATS pursuant to Part III, Item
5(a) without a significant burden. The broker-dealer operator may have to inquire as to the
capacity in which each of its affiliates trade, the means by which they enter orders or other
trading interest to the ATS, and any means by which a subscriber can be excluded from
interacting with the orders or other trading interest of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates
pursuant to Items 5(b), (c), and (d). However, as previously noted, because the disclosure

612

Specifically, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to: (a) identify each affiliate and
business unit of the broker-dealer operator that may enter orders or other trading interest
on the NMS Stock ATS; (b) describe the circumstances and capacity in which each
identified affiliate and business unit enters orders or trading interest on the NMS Stock
ATS (e.g., proprietary or agency); (c) describe the means by which each identified
affiliate and business unit enters orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS
(e.g., directly through a FIX connection to the NMS Stock ATS, or indirectly, by way of
the broker-dealer operator’s SOR (or similar functionality), algorithm, intermediate
application, or sales desk); and (d) describe any means by which a subscriber can be
excluded from interacting or trading with orders or other trading interest of the brokerdealer operator or its affiliates on the NMS Stock ATS.

613

There may be some NMS Stock ATSs for which neither the broker-dealer operator nor its
affiliates trade on the NMS Stock ATS at all, and thus, for which the disclosures required
under Part III, Item 5 would impose no significant burden. However, based on the review
of Forms ATS by the Commission and its staff and discussions with broker-dealer
operators, the Commission understands that a majority of ATSs that trade NMS stocks
currently either trade in their own ATSs, either by themselves or with or through their
affiliates.

407

requirements with respect to affiliates would only apply to control affiliates, which would either
be controlled by the broker-dealer operator or under common control with the broker-dealer
operator, the broker-dealer operator may already have this information or would likely be able to
obtain the information required under Items 5(b) and (c) without a significant burden.
Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part III, Item 5
for a Form ATS-N would add 5 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on
current Form ATS. This would result in an aggregate initial burden of 230 hours above the
current baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part III, Item 5 of proposed Form ATSN. 614
Part III, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
whether the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, use a SOR(s) (or similar
functionality), an algorithm(s), or both to send or receive subscriber orders or other trading
interest to or from the NMS Stock ATS. 615 The Commission and its staff understand from
conversations with ATSs that nearly every ATS that trades NMS stocks currently uses some
form of SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm. The Commission recognizes that the
SOR(s) (or similar functionality) of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates and any

614

(Attorney at 2 hours + Compliance Manager at 3 hours) x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 230
burden hours.

615

Specifically, Part III, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock
ATS to: (a) identify the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s) and identify the
person(s) that operates the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s), if other than
the broker-dealer operator; and (b) describe the interaction or coordination between the
identified SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s), including any information or
messages about orders or other trading interest (e.g., IOIs) that the SOR(s) (or similar
functionality) or algorithm(s) send or receive to or from the NMS Stock ATS and the
circumstances under which such information may be shared with any person.

408

algorithm(s) employed by the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates to enter orders onto the
NMS Stock ATS may vary widely among ATSs with respect to the manner in which they
operate, the information they send or receive, and how the SOR(s) (or similar functionality)
and/or algorithm(s) may determine to route certain orders to the NMS Stock ATS as opposed to
other venues. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that the burdens associated
with the disclosures in Part III, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N are likely to vary depending on
the complexity of the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) and/or algorithm(s), its significance to the
operation of the NMS Stock ATS, and the functions and roles that it performs.
For example, in responding to Part III, Item 6(b), which would require an NMS Stock
ATS to describe, among other things, any information or messages about orders or other trading
interest that the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) and algorithm(s) send or receive to or from the
NMS Stock ATS, an NMS Stock ATS that uses IOIs to facilitate trades on the NMS Stock ATS
and that uses its SOR(s) (or similar functionality) and/or algorithm(s) to facilitate the sending of
those IOIs to relevant persons would likely have a substantially greater burden in responding to
Item 6(b) due to the number of messages that may be associated with an IOI and the subsequent
responses to that IOI than an NMS Stock ATS that does not use IOIs. Accordingly, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part III, Item 6 for a Form ATSN would add 10 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS.
This would result in an aggregate initial burden of 460 hours above the current baseline for all
NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part III, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N.616

616

(Attorney at 4 hours + Compliance Manager at 3 hours + Sr. Systems Analyst at 3 hours)
x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 460 burden hours.

409

Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
whether it has any shared employees, 617 and identify the business unit(s) and/or the affiliate(s) of
the broker-dealer operator to which the shared employee(s) provides services and identify the
position(s) or title(s) that the shared employee(s) holds in the business unit(s) and/or affiliate(s)
of the broker-dealer operator; and (2) describe the roles and responsibilities of the shared
employee(s) at the NMS Stock ATS and the business unit(s) and/or affiliate(s) of the brokerdealer operator. As the broker-dealer operator controls all aspects of the NMS Stock ATS, it
should already be aware of all of its employees and likely aware of any other roles or functions
that such employees provide to other business units or affiliates of the broker-dealer operator.
The Commission therefore preliminarily believes that the NMS Stock ATS should be able to
obtain this information readily. The extent of this disclosure burden would likely vary
depending on the number of employees of the NMS Stock ATS and the extent to which such
employees’ roles are solely dedicated to operating the NMS Stock ATS versus also servicing
other business unit(s) of the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates. Accordingly, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part III, Item 7 for a Form ATSN would add 4 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS.
This would result in an aggregate initial burden of 184 hours above the current baseline for all
NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part III, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N. 618

617

See supra Section VII.B.8 describing who would be considered a shared employee of the
broker-dealer operator.

618

(Attorney at 2 hours + Compliance Manager at 2 hours) x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 184
burden hours.

410

Part III, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
whether any operation, service, or function of the NMS Stock ATS is performed by any
person(s) other than the broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS, and if so to: (1) identify
the person(s) (in the case of a natural person, to identify only the person’s position or title)
performing the operation, service, or function and note whether this service provider(s) is an
affiliate of the broker-dealer, if applicable; (2) describe the operation, service, or function that
the identified person(s) provides and describe the role and responsibilities of that person(s); and
(3) state whether the identified person(s), or any of its affiliates, may enter orders or other trading
interest on the NMS Stock ATS and, if so, describe the circumstances and means by which such
orders or other trading interest are entered on the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission notes that
this proposed disclosure requirement is similar to the Exhibit E disclosure requirement under the
current Form ATS. 619 The only additional disclosure requirement beyond that required currently
by Exhibit E to Form ATS would be Item 8(c), which would require the NMS Stock ATS to state
whether or not the service provider or the service provider’s affiliate may transact on the NMS
Stock ATS, and if so, the circumstances and means by which they may do so. The Commission
preliminarily believes based on its review of Form ATS Exhibit E disclosures that most, but not
all, service providers to ATSs are not typically entities that would transact on the ATS by
themselves. Based on Commission experience, affiliates of service providers to some ATSs that
transact in NMS stock may subscribe to that ATS. An NMS Stock ATS may have to ask the
service provider about the nature of the service provider’s affiliates to ensure that such affiliates
619

Exhibit E of Form ATS requires an ATS to provide the name of any entity, other than the
ATS, that is involved in the operation of the ATS, including the execution, trading,
clearing, and settling of transactions on behalf of the ATS, and to provide a description of
the role and responsibilities of each entity.

411

are not subscribers to the NMS Stock ATS or may otherwise be able to transact on the NMS
Stock ATS to complete this disclosure. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates
that, on average, preparing Part III, Item 8 for a Form ATS-N would add 3 hours to the current
baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS. This would result in an aggregate
initial burden of 138 hours above the baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part III, Item
8 of proposed Form ATS-N. 620
Part III, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to identify
and describe any service, functionality, or procedure of the NMS Stock ATS available to the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates that is not available or does not apply to a subscriber(s) to
the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission is not currently aware of any NMS Stock ATS that
provides services, functionalities, or procedures to itself or its affiliates and not to subscribers,
although the Commission recognizes that an NMS Stock ATS could do so. To the extent that the
services, functionalities, or procedures of the NMS Stock ATS provided to the broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates on the NMS Stock ATS differ from those provided to non-affiliated
subscribers, the NMS Stock ATS would have to describe all such differences in Item 9.
Depending on the extent of such differences, the hourly burden for providing these disclosures
would vary. Conversely, if there are no differences between the services, functionalities, or
procedures of the NMS Stock ATS that are provided to the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates
relative to subscribers, Part III, Item 9 would only require the NMS Stock ATS to note this fact.
Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part III, Item 9
for a Form ATS-N would add 2 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on
620

(Attorney at 1 hour + Compliance Manager at 2 hours) x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 138
burden hours.

412

current Form ATS. This would result in an aggregate initial burden of 92 hours above the current
baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part III, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N. 621
Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N would require certain disclosures related to
the NMS Stock ATS’s written safeguards and written procedures to protect the confidential
trading information of subscribers pursuant to Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS. 622 As
previously discussed, NMS Stock ATSs would be required under the proposed amendments to
Regulation ATS to write their policies and procedures under Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS.
Part III, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N would require a description of these policies and
procedures. Because NMS Stock ATSs would have already incurred an hourly burden in
connection with writing its policies and procedures pursuant to Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation
ATS, the Commission preliminarily believes that Item 10 would impose only a minimal burden
on NMS Stock ATSs to describe such written policies and procedures. Part III, Item 10(b) of
proposed Form ATS-N would also require an NMS Stock ATS to identify the positions or titles
of any persons that can access the confidential trading information of subscribers, a description
of what information such persons can access, and the circumstances under which such persons
can access the confidential trading information. The Commission preliminarily believes that
621

(Attorney at 1.5 hours + Compliance Manager at 0.5 hour) x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 92
burden hours.

622

Specifically, an NMS Stock ATS would be required to: (1) describe the means by which
a subscriber may consent or withdraw consent to the disclosure of confidential trading
information to any persons (including the broker-dealer operator and any of its affiliates);
(2) identify the positions or titles of any persons that have access to confidential trading
information, describe the confidential trading information to which the persons have
access, and describe the circumstances under which the persons can access confidential
trading information; (3) describe the written standards controlling employees of the NMS
Stock ATS that trade for employees’ accounts; and (4) describe the written oversight
procedures to ensure that the safeguards and procedures are implemented and followed.

413

NMS Stock ATSs should, pursuant to their existing obligations under Rule 301(b)(10), be aware
of all persons that can access the confidential trading information of subscribers, the
circumstances under which such persons can access that information, and what information they
can access. As NMS Stock ATSs should already have this knowledge, the Commission
preliminarily believes that the proposed disclosures of Item 10(b) would not be overly
burdensome for an NMS Stock ATS to complete. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily
estimates that, on average, preparing Part III, Item 10 for a proposed Form ATS-N would add 2
hours above the current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS. This would
result in an aggregate initial burden of 92 hours above the current baseline for all NMS Stock
ATSs to complete Item 10 of Part III of proposed Form ATS-N. 623
Part IV, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose,
among other things, information regarding: (1) any eligibility requirements to access the NMS
Stock ATS; (2) the terms and conditions of any contractual agreements for granting access to the
NMS Stock ATS for the purpose of effecting transactions in securities or for submitting,
disseminating, or displaying orders on the NMS Stock ATS; (3) the types of subscribers and
other persons that use the services of the NMS Stock ATS; (4) any formal or informal
arrangement the NMS Stock ATS has with liquidity providers; and (5) any circumstances by
which access to the NMS Stock ATS can be limited or denied and the procedures or standards
that are used to determine such action. For each disclosure, the NMS Stock ATS would also be
required to explain whether there are any differences in how these requirements, terms,
conditions, criteria, procedures, and/or standards are applied among subscribers and persons.
623

(Attorney at 1 hour + Compliance Manager at 1 hour) x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 92
burden hours.

414

The Commission notes that the proposed disclosure requirements of Part IV, Item 1 of
proposed Form ATS-N are, in large part, already required under current Form ATS. Exhibit A
of current Form ATS requires an ATS to describe its classes of subscribers (e.g., broker-dealer,
institutional, or retail) and any differences in access to services offered by the ATS to different
groups or classes of subscribers. Part IV, Item 1 of proposed Form ATS-N requires the
disclosure of similar information to Exhibit A, but Part IV, Item 1 would expressly require
significantly more detail, and a greater number of disclosures, than Exhibit A of current Form
ATS including with respect to the terms and conditions of use and eligibility to become a
subscriber. The Commission notes that ATSs currently vary in the depth of their discussion of
subscribers in Exhibit A of their Forms ATS, with some providing a fulsome description that
would likely include most of the express disclosures proposed under Part IV, Item 1 of proposed
Form ATS-N, while other ATSs might not, for example, provide details surrounding differing
eligibility requirements among subscribers.
Depending on the complexity of the NMS Stock ATS, the different types of subscribers,
and, most significantly, the extent to which the terms and conditions vary among subscribers, the
disclosure burden related to Part IV, Item I of proposed Form ATS-N would likely vary. For
example, an NMS Stock ATS with two classes of subscribers with identical terms and conditions
of use, eligibility criteria, and the same circumstances and process regarding limiting and
denying services of the NMS Stock ATS would likely have less of a burden than an NMS Stock
ATS with five groups of subscribers with varying terms and conditions of use, eligibility criteria,
and differing circumstances and processes for which they may be limited or denied the services
of the NMS Stock ATS. Accordingly, the Commission preliminary estimates that, on average,
preparing Part IV, Item 1 of a Form ATS-N would add 6 hours to the current baseline for an
415

initial operation report on current Form ATS to respond to the more detailed questions regarding
subscribers to the NMS Stock ATS. This would result in an aggregate initial burden of 276 hours
above the current baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part IV, Item 1 of proposed
Form ATS-N. 624
Part IV, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to provide
the days and hours of operation of the NMS Stock ATS, including the times when orders or other
trading interest are entered on to the NMS Stock ATS and the time when pre-opening or afterhours trading may occur. It would also require the NMS Stock ATS to explain differences, if
any, among subscribers and persons in the times when orders or other trading interest are entered
on the NMS Stock ATS. Current Form ATS does not specify similar disclosures, so the
Commission preliminarily estimates that respondents would incur additional burdens above the
current baseline when preparing the disclosures required under Part IV, Item 2 of proposed Form
ATS-N. The NMS Stock ATS should already be aware of the hours during which it operates and
whether and when it permits pre-opening or after-hours trading. Based on the experience of the
Commission and its staff reviewing Form ATS and ATS-R filings, the Commission preliminarily
believes that most ATSs that currently trade NMS stocks do not provide for after-hours or preopening trading of NMS stock. For NMS Stock ATSs for which the times when orders or other
trading interest may be sent to the NMS Stock ATS are not the same for all subscribers and
persons, the disclosure burden related to Part IV, Item 2 would likely increase. Accordingly, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part IV, Item 2 for a Form ATSN would add 0.5 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS.
624

(Attorney at 4 hours + Compliance Manager at 2 hours) x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 276
burden hours.

416

This would result in an aggregate initial burden of 23 hours above the current baseline for all
NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part IV, Item 2 of proposed Form ATS-N. 625
Part IV, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS would require an NMS Stock ATS to provide a
detailed disclosure of the order types available on the NMS Stock ATS. Part IV Item 3(a) would
require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any types of orders that are entered to the NMS Stock
ATS, their characteristics, operations, and how they are handled on the NMS Stock ATS.626 Part
IV, Item 3(b) would require the NMS Stock ATS to describe any differences if the availability of
its order types, and their terms and conditions, are not the same for all subscribers and persons.
Part IV, Item 3(c) would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any requirements and handling
procedures for minimum order sizes, odd-lot orders, and mixed-lot orders and to describe any
differences if the requirements and handling procedures for minimum order sizes, odd-lot, or
mixed-lot orders are not the same for all subscribers and persons. Part IV, Item 3(d) would
require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any messages sent to or received by the NMS Stock ATS
indicating trading interest (e.g., IOIs, actionable IOIs or conditional orders), including the
information contained in the message, the means under which messages are transmitted, the
circumstances in which messages are transmitted (e.g., automatically by the NMS Stock ATS, or
625

Compliance Manager at 0.5 hours x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 23 burden hours.

626

This would include: (i) priority for each order type; (ii) conditions for each order type;
(iii) order types designed not to remove liquidity (e.g., post-only orders); (iv) order types
that adjust their price as changes to the order book occur (e.g., price sliding orders or
pegged orders) or have a discretionary range; (v) the time-in-force instructions that can
be used or not used with each order type; (vi) the availability of order types across all
forms of connectivity to the NMS Stock ATS and differences, if any, between the
availability of an order type across these forms of connectivity; (vii) whether an order
type is eligible for routing to other trading centers; and (viii) the circumstances under
which order types may be combined with a time-in-force or another order type, modified,
replaced, canceled, rejected, or removed from the NMS Stock ATS.

417

upon the subscriber’s request), and the circumstances in which they may result in an execution
on the NMS Stock ATS; the NMS Stock ATS would also be required to describe any differences
among subscribers and persons if the terms and conditions regarding these messages, IOIs, and
conditional orders are not the same for all subscribers and persons.
The Commission notes that some of the proposed disclosure requirements of Part IV,
Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N are already required under current Form ATS. Exhibit F of
current Form ATS requires an ATS to describe, among other things, the manner of operation and
the procedures governing order entry and execution of the ATS. Part IV, Item 3 of proposed
Form ATS-N would require significantly more detail, and a greater number of disclosures, in
regard to types of orders than Exhibit F of current Form ATS. ATSs that trade NMS stocks
currently vary in the extent of their disclosures relating to order types as provided in Exhibit F.
Some provide a relatively fulsome discussion of different order types and to whom they are
made available, while other ATSs that trade NMS stocks do not provide substantial detail in this
area. Depending on the extent to which an ATS that trades NMS stocks already discloses most
of the information regarding order types and trading interest on Exhibit F of its Form ATS, as
well as the variety and complexity of different order types available, the proposed disclosure
burden of Part IV, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N will likely vary among NMS Stock ATSs.
For example, those NMS Stock ATSs that send and receive actionable IOIs and/or conditional
orders would be required to draft a detailed explanation regarding those order types for Part IV,
Item 3(d), whereas NMS Stock ATSs without such order types would simply state that they do
not send and receive IOIs and conditional orders. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily
estimates that, on average, preparing Part IV, Item 3 of a Form ATS-N would add 6 hours to the
current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS, depending on such factors as
418

described above. This would result in an aggregate initial burden of 276 hours above the current
baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete
Part IV, Item 3 of proposed Form ATS-N. 627
Part IV, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose
the means by which subscribers or other persons connect and send orders to the NMS Stock
ATS. Part IV, Item 4(a) would require the NMS Stock ATS to describe the means by which
subscribers or other persons connect to the NMS Stock ATS and enter orders or other trading
interest on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., via a direct FIX connection to the ATS or an indirect
connection via the broker-dealer operator’s SOR, any intermediate functionality, algorithm, or
sales desk). This item would also require the NMS Stock ATS to describe any differences if the
terms and conditions for connecting and entering orders or other trading interest are not the same
for all subscribers and persons. Part IV, Item 4(b) would require the NMS Stock ATS to
describe any co-location services or any other means by which any subscriber or other persons
may enhance the speed by which to send or receive orders, trading interest, or messages to or
from the NMS Stock ATS, the terms and conditions of such co-location services, and to describe
any differences if the terms and conditions of the co-location services are not the same for all
subscribers and persons.
The Commission notes that some of the proposed disclosure requirements of Part IV,
Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N are already required under current Form ATS. Exhibit F of
current Form ATS requires an ATS to describe, among other things, the means of access to the
ATS. Part IV, Item 4 of proposed Form ATS-N would expressly require significantly more
627

(Attorney at 1 hour + Compliance Manager at 2 hours + Sr. Systems Analyst at 3 hours)
x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 276 burden hours.

419

detail, and a greater number of disclosures, in regard to order entry, connectivity, and co-location
services than Exhibit F of current Form ATS. ATSs that currently trade NMS stocks vary in the
depth of their disclosures related to order entry. Currently, most ATSs that trade NMS stocks do
not provide much or any detail regarding the extent to which they provide co-location services or
other speed advantages to subscribers or persons trading on the ATS. Accordingly, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that respondents would incur an additional burden above the
current baseline when preparing the disclosures required under Part IV, Item 4 of proposed Form
ATS-N. The Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part IV, Item 4 for
a Form ATS-N would add 5 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on current
Form ATS to provide a more detailed description of the connection and order entry procedures, a
description of any co-location or speed-advantage services, as well as any differences among
subscribers and other persons with respect to these disclosures. This would result in an aggregate
initial burden of 230 hours above the current baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Item
4 of Part IV of proposed Form ATS-N. 628
Part IV, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to explain if
and how it segments order flow, the type of notice about such segmentation that it provides to
subscribers, and whether subscribers, the broker-dealer operator, or its affiliates may submit
order preferencing instructions. Part IV, Item 5(a) would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe
any segmentation of orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., classification
by type of participant, source, nature of trading activity), and to describe the segmentation
categories, the criteria used to segment these categories, and procedures for determining,
628

(Attorney at 1 hour + Compliance Manager at 2 hours + Sr. Systems Analyst at 2 hours)
x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 230 burden hours.

420

evaluating, and changing segmented categories. This item would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any differences if the segmented categories, the criteria used to segment these
categories, and any procedures for determining, evaluating, or changing segmented categories
are not the same for all subscriber and persons. Part IV, Item 5(b) would require the NMS Stock
ATS to state whether it notifies subscribers or persons about the segmentation category that a
subscriber or a person is assigned and to describe any notice provided to subscribers or persons
about the segmented category that they are assigned and the segmentation identified in Item 5(a),
including the content of any notice and the means by which any notice is communicated. If the
notice is not the same for all subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to
describe any differences. Part IV, Item 5(c) would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any
means and the circumstances by which a subscriber, the broker-dealer operator, or any of its
affiliates may designate an order or trading interest submitted to the NMS Stock ATS to interact
or not to interact with specific orders, trading interest, or persons on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g.,
designating an order or trading interest to be executed against a specific subscriber) and how
such designations affect order priority and interaction.
The Commission notes that some of the proposed disclosure requirements of Part IV,
Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N are already required under current Form ATS. Exhibit F of
current Form ATS requires an ATS to describe, among other things, the manner of operation and
the procedures governing order entry and execution of the ATS. However, Exhibit F of current
Form ATS does not expressly enumerate the level of detail that an ATS must provide in regard
to its segmentation of order flow and does not expressly ask for an ATS to describe any notice to
subscribers regarding segmentation or explain any means and circumstances for order
preferencing, whereas Part IV, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N would require detailed
421

disclosures in regard to these subjects.629 Based on its review of Exhibit F disclosures, the
Commission understands that most, but not all, ATSs that currently trade NMS stocks segment
orders in some manner and that many NMS Stock ATSs allow subscribers to enter some order
preferencing criteria or limits. These ATSs vary in the depth of their description as to how they
segment order flow and order preferencing. For instance, most ATSs that currently trade NMS
stocks do not expressly provide the Commission with a description of the means by which
persons might be notified about segmentation, as would be required by Part IV, Item 5(b) of
proposed Form ATS-N. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that respondents
would incur an additional burden above the current baseline when preparing the disclosures
required under Part IV, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N. The Commission preliminarily
estimates that, on average, preparing Part IV, Item 5 for a Form ATS-N would add 7 hours to the
current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS to provide a detailed
description of how, if at all, the NMS Stock ATS segments order flow, provides any notice to those
trading on the NMS Stock ATS regarding segmentation, and allows order preferencing. This
would result in an aggregate initial burden of 322 hours above the current baseline for all NMS
Stock ATSs to complete Part IV, Item 5 of proposed Form ATS-N. 630
Part IV, Item 6(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any means and circumstances by which orders or other trading interest on the NMS

629

Though Exhibit F of current Form ATS, unlike Item 5(b) of Part IV of proposed Form
ATS-N, does not expressly require ATSs to describe the content of any notice to
subscribers regarding segmentation, Exhibit F does require a copy of any materials
currently provided to subscribers, which could include such a notice.

630

(Attorney at 2 hours + Compliance Manager at 2.5 hours + Sr. Systems Analyst at 2.5
hours) x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 322 burden hours.

422

Stock ATS are displayed or made known outside the NMS Stock ATS and the information about
the orders and trading interest that are displayed. If the display of orders or other trading interest
is not the same for all subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to
describe any differences. Part IV, Item 6(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS
Stock ATS to identify the subscriber(s) or person(s) (in the case of a natural person, the NMS
Stock ATS would only identify the person’s position or title) to whom the orders and trading
interest are displayed or otherwise made known. Although Exhibit F of current Form ATS
requires an ATS to describe, among other things, the manner of operation and the procedures
governing order entry and execution of the ATS, Exhibit F does not expressly state that an ATS
must explain if and how order information is displayed or otherwise made known outside the
NMS Stock ATS. The Commission understands from its review of Forms ATS filings that a
majority of ATSs that trade NMS stocks provide some form of IOI or conditional order that
would likely need to be described in Part IV, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N. 631 Depending on
the variety of trading interest that shares some trading information outside of the NMS Stock
ATS and the complexity of such information sharing, the disclosure burden in responding to Part
IV, Item 6 would likely vary among NMS Stock ATSs. The Commission also notes that there is
currently one ATS that trades NMS stocks that operates as an ECN. This ATS would have to
describe in Part IV, Item 6 how it displays orders and other information about trading interest on
the ATS. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part
IV, Item for a Form ATS-N would add 5 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation
report on current Form ATS, depending on such factors as described above. This would result in
631

See supra Part IV, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N.

423

an aggregate initial burden of 230 hours above the current baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to
complete Part IV, Item 6 of proposed Form ATS-N. 632
Part IV, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe
its trading services in detail. Part IV, Items 7(a) and 7(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would
require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose the means or facilities used by the NMS Stock ATS to
bring together the orders of multiple buyers and sellers, as well as the established, nondiscretionary methods that dictate the terms of trading among multiple buyers and sellers on the
facilities of the NMS Stock ATS, including rules and procedures governing the priority, pricing
methodologies, allocation, matching, and execution of orders and other trading interest. Part IV,
Item 7(c) would require the NMS Stock ATS to describe any trading procedures related to price
protection mechanisms, short sales, locked-crossed markets, the handling of execution errors,
time-stamping of orders and executions, or price improvement functionality. For all disclosures
required under Item 7, the NMS Stock ATS would also be required to describe any differences in
the availability of a functionality regarding its trading services among subscribers and persons.
The Commission notes that some of the proposed disclosure requirements of Part IV,
Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N are already required under current Form ATS. Exhibit F of
current Form ATS requires an ATS to describe, among other things, the manner of operation and
the procedures governing order entry and execution of the ATS. These required disclosures in
Exhibit F of Form ATS are similar to those set forth in Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N, which
would require disclosures relating to matching methodology, order interaction rules, and
execution procedures of the NMS Stock ATS. Consequently, the Commission preliminarily
632

(Attorney at 1 hour + Compliance Manager at 2 hours + Sr. Systems Analyst at 2 hours)
x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 230 burden hours.

424

believes that NMS Stock ATSs already have some experience completing Exhibit F that would
lessen the burden related to responding to the more detailed disclosures in Items 7(a), (b), and (c)
of Part IV of proposed Form ATS-N.
Furthermore, Part IV, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock
ATS to describe how the NMS Stock ATS meets the two prongs necessary to meet the Exchange
Act’s definition of “exchange” pursuant to Rule 3b-16(a) under the Exchange Act in Items 7(a)
and (b). 633 Based on reviews of Form ATS submissions, the Commission understands that ATSs
that currently trade NMS stocks generally do not explicitly explain how their systems meet the
requirements of each prong under Rule 3b-16, which are necessary in order to constitute an ATS.
Those systems seeking to operate as NMS Stock ATSs would be required to draft those
explanations, or modify existing descriptions of their current system as they may provide
currently in Form ATS, to meet the disclosure requirements of Part IV, Item 7 of proposed Form
ATS-N.
Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that respondents would incur an
additional burden above the current baseline when preparing the disclosures required under Part
IV, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N. The Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average,
preparing Part IV, Item 7 for a Form ATS-N would add 6 hours to the current baseline for an
initial operation report on current Form ATS to provide a description of the NMS Stock ATS’s

633

See 17 CFR 240.3b-16 providing, among other things, that an entity must (1) bring
together the orders for securities of multiple buyers and sellers; and (2) use established,
non-discretionary methods (whether by providing a trading facility or by setting rules)
under which such orders interact with each other, and the buyers and sellers entering such
orders agree to the terms of a trade).

425

trading services. This would result in an aggregate initial burden of 276 hours above the current
baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part IV, Item 7 of proposed Form ATS-N. 634
Part IV, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe
any procedures governing trading in the event the NMS Stock ATS suspends trading or
experiences a system disruption or system malfunction. If the procedures governing trading
during a suspension or system disruption or malfunction are not the same for all subscribers and
persons, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to describe any differences.
Exhibit G of Form ATS requires ATSs to describe the ATS’s procedures for reviewing
system capacity, security, and contingency planning procedures. The Commission preliminarily
believes that the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N relating to
system disruptions, malfunctions, or other suspensions relate, in part, to the Exhibit G
disclosures on current Form ATS. The Commission notes that some ATSs that trade NMS
stocks currently provide some disclosures relating to system disruptions, malfunctions, and other
suspensions in their Exhibit F, Exhibit G, or in subscriber manuals (or other materials provided
to subscribers) that are required to be provided to the Commission under Exhibit F of current
Form ATS. Consequently, the Commission preliminarily believes that NMS Stock ATSs should
be able to provide the proposed disclosures in Part IV, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N without
a significant burden over the current baseline as they should already be aware of how the ATS
operates, handles system disruptions, malfunctions or other suspensions. The Commission
recognizes, however, that Item Part IV, Item 8 is significantly more specific and detailed in its
proposed disclosure requirements than current Form ATS.
634

(Attorney at 1 hour + Compliance Manager at 2 hours + Sr. Systems Analyst at 3 hours)
x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 276 burden hours.

426

Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that respondents would incur an
additional burden above the current baseline when preparing the disclosures required under Part
IV, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N. The Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average,
preparing Part IV, Item 8 for a Form ATS-N would add 2.5 hours to the current baseline for an
initial operation report on current Form ATS to provide a detailed description of the NMS Stock
ATS’s procedures for system disruptions, malfunctions, or other suspensions. This would result in
an aggregate initial burden of 115 hours above the current baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to
complete Part IV, Item 8 of proposed Form ATS-N. 635
Part IV, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe
any opening, reopening and closing processes, and any procedures for after-hours trading. Part
IV, Item 9(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any
opening and reopening processes, including how orders or other trading interest are matched and
executed prior to the start of regular trading hours or following a stoppage of trading in a security
during regular trading hours and how unexecuted orders or other trading interest are handled at
the time the NMS Stock ATS begins regular trading at the start of regular trading hours or
following a stoppage of trading in a security during regular trading hours. The NMS Stock ATS
would also be required to describe any differences between pre-opening executions, executions
following a stoppage of trading in a security during regular trading hours, and executions during
regular trading hours. Part IV, Items 9(b) and (c) would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe
any closing process and after-hours trading procedures, respectively, the manner in which
unexecuted orders or other trading interest are handled at the close of regular trading, and how
635

(Attorney at 1 hour + Compliance Manager at .5 hours + Sr. Systems Analyst at 1 hour) x
46 NMS Stock ATSs = 115 burden hours.

427

orders and trading interest are matched and executed during after-hours trading. The NMS Stock
ATS would also be required to describe any differences between the closing and after-hours
executions versus executions during regular trading hours.
The Commission notes that some of the proposed disclosure requirements of Part IV,
Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N are incorporated by some ATSs that trade NMS stocks into
Exhibit F of their current Forms ATS, which requires an ATS to describe, among other things,
the manner of operation and the procedures governing order entry and execution of the ATS.
Currently, ATSs that trade NMS stocks vary in the depth of their disclosures relating to opening,
reopening, or closing processes, and after-hours trading procedures. The Commission notes that
these opening, reopening, or closing processes, and after-hours trading procedures, may vary
widely across different NMS Stock ATSs, with some, for example, allowing for pre-opening
executions and routing and after-hours trading and routing, while others may not have an
opening process and simply commence with regular trading without any option for after-hours
trading. In any case, NMS Stock ATSs should already be aware of any opening, reopening or
closing processes, and after-hours trading procedures, they may have as well as any differences
in trading and execution during the opening, reopening, or closing processes, and during afterhours trading. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that preparing Part IV, Item
9 of proposed Form ATS-N for a Form ATS-N would not impose a significant additional burden
above the current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS. The Commission
preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part IV, Item 9 for a Form ATS-N would add
3 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS to describe its
opening, reopening, or closing processes, and after-hours trading procedures. This would result in

428

an aggregate initial burden of 138 hours above the current baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to
complete Part IV, Item 9 of proposed Form ATS-N. 636
Part IV, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe
its outbound routing functions. Part IV, Item 10(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an
NMS Stock ATS to describe the circumstances under which orders or other trading interest are
routed from the NMS Stock ATS to another trading center, including whether outbound routing
occurs at the affirmative instruction of the subscriber or at the discretion of the broker-dealer
operator, and the means by which routing is performed (e.g., a third party or order management
system, or a SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm of the broker-dealer operator or any of
its affiliates). Part IV, Item 10(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS
to describe any differences if the means by which orders or other trading interest are routed from
the NMS Stock ATS are not the same for all subscribers and persons. Exhibit F of current Form
ATS requires an ATS to describe, among other things, the manner of operation and the
procedures governing order execution of the ATS, but it does not specifically state the level of
detail an ATS must provide when describing its outbound routing procedures. Additionally, the
Commission understands based on disclosures in Form ATS submissions, some ATSs that
currently trade NMS stocks do not route orders out of the ATS. Consequently, the disclosure
burden related to Part IV, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N would likely vary among NMS
Stock ATSs depending on whether they route orders at all, the variety of circumstances under
which they may route orders, and the variety of destinations or criteria to determine such
destinations to which an order or other trading interest may route. Accordingly, the Commission
636

(Compliance Manager at 2 hours + Sr. Systems Analyst at 1 hour) x 46 NMS Stock ATSs
= 138 burden hours.

429

preliminarily believes that the average additional burden above the baseline imposed by Part IV,
Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N may vary significantly among NMS Stock ATSs.
Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part IV, Item
10 for a Form ATS-N would add 6 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on
current Form ATS, depending on such factors as described above. This would result in an
aggregate initial burden of 276 hours above the current baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to
complete Part IV, Item 10 of proposed Form ATS-N. 637
Part IV, Item 11 of proposed Form ATS would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe its
sources and uses of market data. Part IV, Item 11(a) would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe the market data used by the NMS Stock ATS and the source of that market data (e.g.,
market data feeds disseminated by the SIP and market data feeds disseminated directly by an
exchange or other trading center or third-party vendor of market data). Part IV, Item 11(b)
would require the NMS Stock ATS to describe the specific purpose for which market data is
used by the NMS Stock ATS, including how market data is used to determine the NBBO,
protected quotes, pricing of orders and executions, and routing destinations. Form ATS does not
specifically require an ATS to describe its sources of market data, though, this information is
often important to understanding the execution of orders on an ATS. The Commission is aware
based on Form ATS filings that many ATSs that trade NMS stocks provide descriptions related
to their use of market data, including providing the name of their market data vendor. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed disclosures under Part IV, Item 11 would
not impose any significant additional burden on NMS Stock ATSs, which should already be
637

(Attorney at 1 hour + Compliance Manager at 2 hours + Sr. Systems Analyst at 3 hours)
x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 276 burden hours.

430

aware of the market data that they use and the manner in which they use it. Accordingly, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part IV, Item 11 for a Form
ATS-N would add 4 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on current Form
ATS to describe the sources of market data and the manner in which the NMS Stock ATS uses
market data. This would result in an aggregate initial burden of 184 hours above the current
baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part IV, Item 11 of proposed Form ATS-N. 638
Part IV, Item 12 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to make
certain disclosures regarding its fees, rebates, and other charges. Part IV, Item 12(a) of proposed
Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any fees, rebates, or other charges of
the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., connectivity fees, subscription fees, execution fees, volume discounts)
and provide the range (e.g., high and low) of such fees, rebates, or other charges. Part IV, Item
12(b) of proposed Form ATS-N would require the NMS Stock ATS to describe any differences
if the fees, rebates, or other charges of the NMS Stock ATS are not the same for all subscribers
and persons. Current Form ATS does not require an ATS to disclose and explain its fee
structure, and based on Commission experience, few, if any, do so in their current Form ATS
filings. The Commission recognizes that, like national securities exchanges, NMS Stock ATSs
may adopt a variety of fee structures that may include rebates, incentives for subscribers to bring
liquidity to the NMS Stock ATS, more traditional transaction-based fee structures, and other fees
such as a monthly subscriber access fee. Depending on the complexity and variety of an NMS
Stock ATS’s fee structure and the extent to which these fees are not the same for all subscribers
and persons, the proposed disclosure burden related to Part IV, Item 12 of proposed Form ATS638

(Compliance Manager at 2 hours + Sr. Systems Analyst at 2 hours) x 46 NMS Stock
ATSs = 184 burden hours.

431

N will likely vary. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average,
preparing Part IV, Item 12 for a Form ATS-N would add 5 hours to the current baseline for an
initial operation report on current Form ATS to describe the NMS Stock ATS’s fee structure and
any differences among subscribers and persons relating to fees, rebates, or other charges. This
would result in an aggregate initial burden of 230 hours above the current baseline for all NMS
Stock ATSs to complete Part IV, Item 12 of proposed Form ATS-N. 639
Part IV, Item 13 of proposed Form ATS would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe
any arrangements or procedures for trade reporting, clearance, and settlement on the NMS Stock
ATS. Part IV, Item 13(a) of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
describe any arrangements or procedures for reporting transactions on the NMS Stock ATS and
if the trade reporting procedures are not the same for all subscribers and persons, the NMS Stock
ATS would be required to describe any differences. Part IV, Item 13(b) of proposed Form ATSN would require an NMS Stock ATS to describe any arrangements or procedures undertaken by
the NMS Stock ATS to facilitate the clearance and settlement of transactions on the NMS Stock
ATS (e.g., whether the NMS Stock ATS becomes a counterparty, whether it submits trades to a
registered clearing agency, or whether it requires subscribers to have arrangements with a
clearing firm). If the clearance and settlement procedures are not the same for all subscribers
and persons, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to describe any differences. The
Commission notes that some of the proposed disclosure requirements of Part IV, Item 13 of
proposed Form ATS-N are already required under current Form ATS. Exhibit F of current Form
ATS requires ATSs to describe, among other things, their procedures governing execution,
639

(Attorney at 1 hour + Compliance Manager at 3 hours + Sr. Systems Analyst at 1 hour) x
46 NMS Stock ATSs = 230 burden hours.

432

reporting, clearance, and settlement of transactions effected through the ATS. Consequently,
ATSs that currently trade NMS stocks already have experience providing disclosures related to
how they report, clear, and settle transactions on the ATS. Accordingly, the Commission
preliminarily believes that preparing Part IV, Item 13 for a Form ATS-N would not impose a
significant additional burden above the current baseline for an initial operation report on current
Form ATS. The Commission preliminarily estimates that, on average, preparing Part IV, Item 13
for a Form ATS-N would add 0.5 hours to the current baseline for an initial operation report on
current Form ATS to provide a more detailed description of the NMS Stock ATS’s trade reporting,
clearance, and settlement arrangements or procedures. This would result in an aggregate initial
burden of 23 hours above the current baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part IV, Item
13 of proposed Form ATS-N. 640
Part IV, Item 14 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to provide
the following information if the NMS Stock ATS displays orders in an NMS stock to any person
other than employees of the NMS Stock ATS and executed 5% or more of the average daily
trading volume in that NMS stock as reported by an effective transaction reporting plan for four
of the preceding six calendar months: (a) the ticker symbol for each NMS stock for each of the
last 6 calendar months; (b) a description of the manner in which the NMS Stock ATS displays
such orders on a national securities exchange or through a national securities association; and (c)
a description of how the NMS Stock ATS provides access to such orders displayed in the
national market system equivalent to the access to other orders displayed on that exchange or
association. Part IV, Item 15 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
640

Compliance Manager at 0.5 hours x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 23 burden hours.

433

provide the following information if the NMS Stock ATS executed 5% or more of the average
daily trading volume in an NMS stock as reported by an effective transaction reporting plan for
four of the preceding six calendar months: (a) the ticker symbol for each NMS stock for each of
the last 6 calendar months; and (b) a description of the written standards for granting access to
trading on the NMS Stock ATS. Current Form ATS does not require an ATS to disclose the
information that would be required under Part IV, Items 14 and 15 of proposed Form ATS-N.
However, based on the experience of the Commission and its staff, the Commission
preliminarily believes that no ATSs currently executed 5% or more of the average daily volume
in an NMS Stock as reported by an effective transaction reporting plan for four of the preceding
six calendar months, and the Commission preliminarily believes that most – if not all – ATSs
that currently trade NMS stocks already have procedures in place to prevent that threshold from
being crossed on the ATS’s system. Historically, ATSs have crossed these thresholds very
rarely, with at most three ATSs that trade NMS stocks crossing either of the thresholds in any
given year.
If, however, an NMS Stock ATS were to cross these 5% thresholds, a disclosure burden
related to amending a Form ATS-N to complete Part IV, Items 14 and 15 of proposed Form
ATS-N would result. Because Items 14 and 15 of Part IV are tied to existing obligations that
arise from crossing the 5% thresholds pursuant to Rule 301(b)(3) and Rule 301(b)(5)(ii)(A) of
Regulation ATS, respectively, the Commission preliminarily believes that NMS Stock ATSs
should already be generally aware of the procedures they would follow if the 5% thresholds were
crossed, which should reduce the burden associated with the disclosures that would be required
under Items 14 and 15. The Commission notes that an NMS Stock ATS would only have to
respond to Part IV, Items 14 or 15 of a Form ATS-N if the NMS Stock ATS previously operated
434

as an ATS and triggered the applicable 5% thresholds. The Commission further notes that NMS
Stock ATSs would be less likely to have to complete Item 14 as compared to Item 15 because
Item 14 requires as an additional precondition that the NMS Stock ATS displays orders in an
NMS stock to a person other than employees of the NMS Stock ATS. For new NMS Stock
ATSs (i.e., NMS Stock ATSs that did not previously operate as an ATS), the NMS Stock ATS
would not have been in operation for at least four months to trigger the applicable thresholds,
meaning that such NMS Stock ATSs would only be required to complete Item 14 or 15 (or both)
in a Form ATS-N Amendment. The Commission preliminarily estimates that completion of Part
IV, Item 14 or 15 in a Form ATS-N Amendment (or in a Form ATS-N in the case of an NMS
Stock ATS that previously operated as an ATS), would be 5 hours per item.
As explained above, the Commission notes that triggering the 5% threshold, a
precondition necessary to require completion of Part IV, Items 14 and 15 of proposed Form
ATS-N, currently occurs, and the Commission preliminarily estimates would continue to occur,
very infrequently. Based on the review of Form ATS and Form ATS-R disclosures by the
Commission and its staff, the Commission preliminarily estimates that 1 NMS Stock ATS would
have to complete Item 14 and 2 NMS Stock ATSs would have to complete Item 15 in any given
year. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the disclosures that would be
required under Part IV, Items 14 and 15 of proposed Form ATS-N would result in an aggregate
initial burden of 15 hours above the current baseline. 641
Part IV, Item 16 of proposed Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to explain
and provide certain aggregate platform-wide market quality statistics that it publishes or
641

(Attorney at 2 hours + Compliance Manager at 1 hour + Sr. Systems Analyst at 2 hours)
x 3 NMS Stock ATSs = 15 burden hours.

435

otherwise provides to subscribers regarding the NMS Stock ATS. Under Item 16, if the NMS
Stock ATS publishes or otherwise provides to one or more subscribers aggregate platform-wide
order flow and execution statistics of the NMS Stock ATS that are not otherwise required
disclosures under Exchange Act Rule 605 of Regulation NMS, it would be required to: (i) list
and describe the categories of the aggregate platform-wide order flow and execution statistics
published or provided; (ii) describe the metrics and methodology used to calculate the aggregate
platform-wide order flow and execution statistics; and (iii) attach as Exhibit 5 the most recent
disclosure of the aggregate platform-wide order flow and execution statistics published or
provided to one or more subscribers for each category or metric as of the end of the calendar
quarter. An NMS Stock ATS would not be required to develop or publish any new statistics for
purposes of making the required disclosures under Item 16; it would only be required to make
the disclosures for statistics it already otherwise collects and publishes in the course of its
operations. Thus, NMS Stock ATSs that do not publish or otherwise provide aggregate
platform-wide market quality statistics would not incur any additional burden due to the
proposed disclosure requirements of Item 16. For NMS Stock ATSs that do provide such
statistics, Item 16 would impose an additional burden above the baseline because current Form
ATS does not require the disclosure of market quality statistics. The Commission preliminarily
estimates that preparing Part IV, Item 16 for a Form ATS-N would add 7 hours to the current
baseline for an initial operation report on current Form ATS. This would result in an aggregate
initial burden of 322 hours above the current baseline for all NMS Stock ATSs to complete Part
IV, Item 16 of proposed Form ATS-N. 642

642

(Attorney at 1 hour + Compliance Manager at 1 hour + Senior Systems Analyst at 5

436

ii. Estimated Burden above the Current Baseline for a Form ATS-N, Form
ATS-N Amendment, and Notice of Cessation on Form ATS-N
A. Proposed Form ATS-N
Based on the above analysis of the estimated additional burden for a proposed Form
ATS-N, the Commission preliminarily estimates that a proposed Form ATS-N will, on average,
require an estimated 121.3 burden hours above the current baseline for an initial operation report on
current Form ATS. This results in an estimated 141.3 hours in total, including the current
baseline. 643 The Commission notes that ATSs that trade NMS stocks vary in terms of their structure
and the manner in which they operate. ATSs that currently trade NMS stocks also vary with respect
to the depth and extent of their disclosures on Form ATS. Consequently, the Commission
preliminarily believes that the estimated hour burdens herein regarding proposed Form ATS-N
would likely vary among NMS Stock ATSs, depending on such factors as the extent of their current
disclosures on Form ATS, the complexity and structure of their system, and the extent of their other
broker-dealer activities.

hours) x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 322 burden hours.
643

(Current Baseline at 20 hours) + (Parts I and II at 0.5 hours) + (Part III at an average of
47 hours) + (Part IV at an average of 73.5 hours) + (Access to EFFS at 0.3 hours, see
infra, Section XII.D.2.b.iv) = 141.3 burden hours. The aggregate totals by professional,
including the baseline, are estimated to be approximately 54.8 hours for an Attorney, 43.5
hours for a Compliance Manager, 34.5 hours for a Sr. Systems Analyst, 1 hour for a Sr.
Marketing Manager, and 7.5 hours for a Compliance Clerk.
This preliminary estimated burden for a Form ATS-N includes the hour burden
associated with completing Part III, Item 2 and Part IV, Items 14 and 15 of proposed
Form ATS-N. As explained above, however, the Commission preliminarily believes that
the majority of NMS Stock ATSs would not be required to complete those items of the
proposed form.

437

B. Form ATS-N Amendments
As previously noted, the Commission currently estimates that ATSs that trade NMS stocks
submit 2 amendments, on average, each year. 644 The Commission preliminarily estimates that the
46 respondents will file 3 Form ATS-N Amendments each year, for an estimated total of 138 Form
ATS-N Amendments. The Commission notes that proposed Rule 304(a)(2) of Regulation ATS will
contain the same three general categories of required amendments for proposed Form ATS-N as
Rule 301(b)(2) of Regulation ATS currently requires for current Form ATS. 645 However, due to the
greater detail and number of disclosures required by proposed Form ATS-N, the Commission
preliminarily believes that respondents may find it necessary to file a greater number of
amendments to proposed Form ATS-N than ATSs that trade NMS stocks currently do on Form
ATS. For example, many of the disclosures related to the broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock
ATS contained in Part III of proposed Form ATS-N, which are not required disclosures under
current Form ATS, would require an NMS Stock ATS to file Form ATS-N Amendments if the
information provided on Form ATS-N changed.
As noted above, the Commission currently estimates that the hourly burden related to an
amendment to Form ATS is 6 hours. 646 The Commission preliminarily estimates that the average
hourly burden above this current baseline of 6 hours for each Form ATS-N Amendment would be 3
hours to accommodate the more voluminous and detailed disclosures required by Form ATS-N as

644

See supra note 594 and accompanying text. During the fiscal year of 2014, the
Commission received 101 amendments from ATSs that trade NMS stocks, of which there
were approximately 45 at any given time during 2014. Some ATSs that trade NMS
stocks filed as many as 3 amendments while others did not file any amendments in 2014.

645

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2).

646

See supra note 595 and accompanying text.

438

compared to Form ATS. 647 An NMS Stock ATS would also be required to provide a brief
narrative description of the amendment at the top of Form ATS-N and a redline(s) showing
changes to Part III and/or Part IV of proposed Form ATS-N. 648 The Commission preliminarily
estimates that this requirement would add an additional burden of 0.5 hours to draft the summary
and prepare the redline version(s) showing the amendments the NMS Stock ATS is making. 649 This
would result in a total estimated hourly burden, including the baseline, of 9.5 hours for a Form
ATS-N Amendment, 650 and an aggregate annual burden on all NMS Stock ATSs of 1,311 hours. 651
The Commission notes that the frequency and scope of Form ATS-N Amendments would likely
vary, similar to amendments to Form ATS, depending on whether the NMS Stock ATS is
implementing a significant change requiring substantial revisions to its Form ATS-N or whether the
changes are less significant, such as updating the address of the NMS Stock ATS. Some NMS
Stock ATSs might not file any Form ATS-N Amendments in a given year, while others – such as
NMS Stock ATSs that publish or otherwise provide to one or more subscribers aggregate platform-

647

Attorney at 1 hour + Compliance Manager at 2 hours = 3 burden hours above the
baseline.

648

See Exhibits 3A and 4A to proposed Form ATS-N.

649

Compliance Clerk at 0.5 hours. The Commission notes that most word processing
software provides for this functionality.

650

Attorney at 5.5 hours + Compliance Manager at 2 hours + Compliance Clerk at 2 hours =
9.5 burden hours.

651

138 amendments per year x 9.5 hours = 1,311 aggregate burden hours. The Commission
further estimates that gaining access to EFFS for one additional person on an annual basis
would require 0.15 burden hours for each NMS Stock ATS, or 7 hours annually for all
NMS Stock ATSs (46 x 0.15 hours = 6.9 hours). Therefore, the aggregate burden hours
equals 1,317.9 hours (1,311 hours + 6.9 hours).

439

wide market quality statistics that would be covered by Part IV, Item 16 of proposed Form ATSN 652 – may file several Form ATS-N Amendments per year.
C. Notice of Cessation on Proposed Form ATS-N
As previously noted, from 2012 through the first half of 2015, there have been an average of
6 ATSs that trade NMS stocks that cease operations each year. 653 Although it is unclear how many
NMS Stock ATSs might cease operations each year going forward, for purposes of making a PRA
burden estimate, the Commission is estimating that this average would generally remain the same
for NMS Stock ATSs using Form ATS-N as economic conditions, business reasons, and other
factors may cause some NMS Stock ATSs to cease operations. Accordingly, the Commission
preliminarily estimates that 6 respondents may to file a cessation of operation report on proposed
Form ATS-N each year. The Commission preliminarily believes that the burden for filing a
cessation of operation report on proposed Form ATS-N will not be significantly greater than that for
filing a cessation of operation report on current Form ATS because proposed Form ATS-N does not
contain any additional requirements for a cessation of operation report. For both Form ATS and
proposed Form ATS-N, the primary requirement is to check the appropriate box indicating that the
ATS is ceasing operations. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the average
compliance burden for each response would be 2 hours. 654 This would result in an aggregate annual

652

See supra Section VIII.P.

653

See supra Section XII.C.

654

Attorney at 1.5 hours + Compliance Clerk at 0.5 hours = 4 burden hours. See supra note
597, and accompanying text.

440

burden of 12 hours for NMS Stock ATSs that choose to cease operations and submit a cessation of
operation report on Form ATS-N. 655
iii. ATSs that Transact in Both NMS and Non-NMS Stocks
Under proposed Rule 301(b)(2)(viii) of Regulation ATS, an ATS that effects trades in
both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks would have to submit a Form ATS-N with respect to its
trading of NMS stocks and a revised Form ATS that removes discussion of those aspects of the
ATS related to the trading of NMS stocks. Under the proposed amendments to Rule 301(b)(9),
an ATS that effects trades in both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks would also be required to
file separate Forms ATS-R – one disclosing trading volume in NMS stocks and one disclosing
trading volume in non-NMS stocks. Therefore, ATSs that are subject to these proposed
requirements would incur: (1) the above baseline burdens related to filing a Form ATS-N and
Form ATS-N Amendments; 656 (2) the additional burden of filing a new Form ATS to only
disclose information related to non-NMS stock trading activity on the ATS; 657 and (3) the burden
of completing and filing two Forms ATS-R. 658
Accordingly, the Commission estimates that the total hourly burden for an ATS to
separately file a Form ATS for its non-NMS stock trading activity and Form ATS-N for its NMS
stock trading activity would be 20 burden hours for the initial operation report on Form ATS for
its non-NMS stock trading activity and 141.3 burden hours for its Form ATS-N. The
655

2 burden hours x 6 NMS Stock ATSs = 12 aggregate annual burden hours.

656

See supra Sections XII.D.2.b.ii.A and B.

657

See supra Section XII.D.2.a and accompanying text for the baseline estimates for
submitting an IOR for Form ATS and amendments to Form ATS.

658

See supra note 598 and accompanying text for the baseline estimate for submitting a
Form ATS-R.

441

Commission notes that the estimated hour burden related to the initial operation report
submission on Form ATS for non-NMS stock trading activity might be less than the estimated 20
burden hours, as, to the extent the NMS Stock ATS in question is currently operating, the
description of its non-NMS stock trading activity should already be contained in its existing
Form ATS. 659 As previously noted, there are currently 11 ATSs that trade, or have indicated that
they expect to trade in Exhibit B to their Form ATS, both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks on
the ATS. Consequently, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the aggregate initial
burden on ATSs to file these separate forms would be 1,774.3 hours, and the aggregate annual
burden for filing amendments to both forms would be 445.5 hours. 660
The Commission estimates that the total burden for completing and filing two Form
ATS-R would be 4.5 hours, which is 0.5 hours 661 above the current baseline burden of 4 hours
for filing a Form ATS-R. 662 The Commission preliminarily believes that ATSs required to file
two Forms ATS-R would incur an additional burden above the baseline because they would be
required to divide their trading statistics between two forms and file each form separately. The
659

The hourly burden related to amendments to its Form ATS and Form ATS-N would
remain unchanged: 6 estimated burden hours for amendments to Form ATS, and 9.5
estimated burden hours for Form ATS-N Amendments. See supra notes 646 - 650 and
accompanying text.

660

(Form ATS initial operation report at 20 hours + Form ATS-N at 141.3 hours) x 11 ATSs
= 1,774.3 aggregate burden hours. Using the estimates of 2 amendments each year to
Form ATS, see supra Section XII.D.2.a, and 3 amendments each year to Form ATS-N,
see supra Section XII.D.2.b.ii.B, the ongoing aggregate burden for these bifurcated ATSs
would be ((2 Form ATS Amendments per year x 6 hours) + (3 Form ATS-N
Amendments per year x 9.5 hours)) x 11 respondents = 445.5 aggregate ongoing burden
hours per year relating to amendments.

661

Attorney at .5 hours = .5 burden hours.

662

See supra note 598 and accompanying text for the baseline estimate for submitting a
Form ATS-R.

442

Commission does not believe that those ATSs would incur any additional burden to collect the
required information because they currently assemble that information when preparing their
current Form ATS-R filings. As previously noted, there are currently 11 ATSs that trade, or
have indicated that they expect to trade in Exhibit B to their Form ATS, both NMS stocks and
non-NMS stocks on the ATS; those ATSs would be required to file a pair of Forms ATS-R four
times annually. Consequently, the Commission estimates that the aggregate annual burden of
filing two Forms ATS-R for those ATS that effect transactions in both NMS stocks and nonNMS stocks would be 198 hours. 663
iv. Access to EFFS
The Commission proposes that Form ATS-N would be submitted electronically in a
structured format and require an electronic signature. 664 Currently, ATSs that transact in NMS
stock do not have the ability to access and submit an electronic form. The proposed amendments
to Regulation ATS would require that every NMS Stock ATS have the ability to submit forms
electronically with an electronic signature. The Commission’s proposal contemplates the use of
an online filing system, the EFFS. Based on the widespread use and availability of the Internet,
the Commission preliminarily believes that filing Form ATS-N in an electronic format would be
less burdensome and a more efficient filing process for NMS Stock ATSs and the Commission,

663

((Attorney at 3.5 hours + Compliance Clerk at 1 hour) x (4 filings annually)) x 11 ATSs
= 198 aggregate burden hours.

664

The Commission notes that all estimated burden hours with regard to completing Parts IV of proposed Form ATS-N, which are explained above and herein, include the estimated
burden associated with the proposed requirement that NMS Stock ATSs file proposed
Form ATS-N in a structured format, including narrative responses that are block-text
tagged.

443

as it is likely to be less expensive and cumbersome than mailing and filing paper forms to the
Commission.
To access EFFS, an NMS Stock ATS would have to submit to the Commission an
External Account User Application (“EAUA”) to register each individual at the NMS Stock ATS
who would access the EFFS system on behalf of the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission is
including in its burden estimates the burden for completing the EAUA for each individual at an
NMS Stock ATS who would request access to EFFS. The Commission estimates that initially,
on average, two individuals at each NMS Stock ATS would request access to EFFS through the
EAUA, and each EAUA would take 0.15 hours to complete and submit. Therefore, each NMS
Stock ATS would require a total of 0.3 hours to complete the requisite EAUAs, 665 or
approximately 13.8 hours for all NMS Stock ATSs. 666 The Commission also preliminarily
estimates that annually, on average, one individual at each NMS Stock ATS will request access
to EFFS through the EAUA. 667 Therefore, the ongoing burden to complete the EAUA would be

665

0.15 hours per EAUA x 2 individuals = 0.3 burden hours per NMS Stock ATS. These
estimates are based on the Commission and its staff’s experience with EFFS and EAUAs
pursuant to Rule 19b-4 under the Exchange Act. The 0.3 hours represents the time spent
by two attorneys. The Commission believes it is appropriate to estimate that, on average,
each NMS Stock ATS will submit two EAUAs initially.

666

0.30 hours x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 13.8 burden hours.

667

The Commission estimates that annually, on average, one individual at each NMS Stock
ATS will request access to EFFS through EAUA to account for the possibility that an
individual who previously had access to EFFS may no longer be designated as needing
such access.

444

0.15 hours annually for each NMS Stock ATS,668 or approximately 6.9 hours annually for all
NMS Stock ATSs. 669
In addition, the Commission estimates that each NMS Stock ATS will designate 2
individuals to sign Form ATS-N each year. An individual signing a Form ATS-N must obtain a
digital ID, at the cost of approximately $25 each year. Therefore, each NMS Stock ATS would
pay approximately $50 annually to obtain digital IDs for the individuals with access to EFFS for
purposes of signing Form ATS-N, 670 or approximately $2,300 for all NMS Stock ATSs. 671
v. Public Posting on NMS Stock ATS’s Website
Proposed Rule 304(b)(3) would require each NMS Stock ATS to make public via posting
on the NMS Stock ATS’s website a direct URL hyperlink to the Commission’s website that
contains the documents enumerated in proposed Rule 304(b)(2). The Commission preliminarily
estimates that each NMS Stock ATS would incur an initial, one-time burden to program and
configure its website in order to post the required direct URL hyperlink pursuant to proposed
Rule 304(b)(3). The Commission preliminarily estimates that this initial, one-time burden would
be approximately 2 hours. 672 Because the Commission preliminarily believes that many brokerdealer operators currently maintain a website for their NMS Stock ATSs, the Commission

668

0.15 hours per EAUA x 1 individual = 0.15 burden hours.

669

0.15 hours x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 6.9 burden hours.

670

$25 per digital ID x 2 individuals = $50 per NMS Stock ATS.

671

$50 per NMS Stock ATS x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = $2,300.

672

Senior Systems Analyst at 2 burden hours.

445

preliminarily estimates that the aggregate initial, one-time burden would be approximately 92
hours. 673
vi. Recordkeeping Requirements
As noted above, the Commission proposes to amend Rule 303(a)(2)(ii) 674 of Regulation
ATS to provide that all ATSs must preserve copies of all reports filed pursuant to proposed Rule
304 for the life of the enterprise and any successor enterprise.
Rule 303(a)(ii) currently requires an ATS to preserve copies of reports filed pursuant to
Rule 301(b)(2), which include all Form ATS filings, for the life of the enterprise and any
successor enterprise. Because NMS Stock ATSs that solely trade NMS stocks would be filing
Form ATS-N in lieu of Form ATS under this proposal, the Commission believes that the
proposed amendment to Rule 303(a)(ii) would not result in any burden for those ATSs that is not
already accounted for under the current baseline burden estimate for Rule 303. 675 For the 11
ATSs that trade, or have indicated in Exhibit B to their Form ATS that they expect to trade both
NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks on the ATS, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the
burden above the current baseline estimate for preserving records relating to compliance with the
proposed amendment to Rule 303(a)(ii) would be approximately 3 hours annually per ATS for a
total annual burden above the current baseline burden estimate of 33 hours for all respondents. 676
673

Senior Systems Analyst at 2 hours x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 92 burden hours.

674

17 CFR 242.303(a)(2)(ii).

675

To comply with all of the record preservation requirements of Rule 303, the Commission
currently estimates that ATSs spend approximately 1,380 hours per year. See Rule 303
PRA Update, supra note 580, 78 FR 43943. At an average cost per burden hour of
$104.20, the resultant total related cost of compliance is $143,796 per year (1,380 burden
hours x $104.20/hour). See id.

676

3 additional burden hours x 11 ATSs = 33 aggregate burden hours.

446

Accordingly, the Commission proposes to modify the current PRA burden for Rule 303 to
account for the increased burden on ATSs that trade both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks.
E. Collection of Information is Mandatory
All collections of information pursuant to the proposed rules would be mandatory for
entities that meet the definition of NMS Stock ATS.
F. Confidentiality of Responses to Collection of Information
With respect to the proposed amendments to Rules 301(b)(2)(viii) and 304 of Regulation
ATS, including proposed Form ATS-N, the Commission would make publicly available on its
website all Forms ATS-N upon being declared effective. The Commission would also make
publicly available on its website all properly filed Form ATS-N Amendments, and notices of
cessation on Form ATS-N. The Commission would not make publicly available on its website
Forms ATS-N that the Commission has declared ineffective, but these forms would be available
for examination by the Commission and its staff, state securities authorities, and self-regulatory
organizations. The proposed Form ATS amendments would also require each NMS Stock ATS
that has a website to post on the NMS Stock ATS’s website a direct URL hyperlink to the
Commission’s website that contains the documents enumerated in proposed Rule 304(b)(2). The
collection of information required by the proposed amendments to Rules 301(b)(10),
303(a)(1)(v), 301(b)(9), and 303(a)(2)(ii) would not be made public, but would be used for
regulatory purposes by the Commission and the SRO(s) of which the ATS’s broker-dealer
operator is a member. In Part III, Item 10 of Form ATS-N, however, NMS Stock ATSs would
be required to describe the written safeguards and written procedures to ensure confidential
treatment of trading information that would be required under the proposed amendment to Rule
301(b)(10); as explained above, the Commission would make certain Form ATS-N filings
447

publicly available. To the extent that the Commission receives confidential information pursuant
to this collection of information, such information would be kept confidential, subject to the
provisions of applicable law.
G. Retention Period for Recordkeeping Requirements
All reports required to be made under proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(viii), 301(b)(9), and 304
of Regulation ATS, including Proposed Form ATS-N, would be required to be preserved during
the life of the enterprise and any successor enterprise, pursuant to the proposed amendment to
Rule 303(a)(2) of Regulation ATS.
ATSs would be required to preserve a copy of their written safeguards and written
procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information under proposed Rule
301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS for not less than 3 years, the first 2 years in an easily accessible
place, pursuant to proposed Rule 303(a)(1)(v) of Regulation ATS.
H. Request for Comments
Pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(B), the Commission solicits comment to:
1.

Evaluate whether the proposed collection of information is necessary for the
proper performance of our functions, including whether the information shall
have practical utility;

2.

Evaluate the accuracy of our estimate of the burden of the proposed collection of
information;

3.

Determine whether there are ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the
information to be collected; and

448

4.

Evaluate whether there are ways to minimize the burden of collection of
information on those who are to respond, including through the use of automated
collection techniques or other forms of information technology.

Persons submitting comments on the collection of information requirements should direct them
to the Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20503,
and should also send a copy of their comments to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and
Exchange Commission, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090, with reference to File
Number S7-23-15. Requests for materials submitted to OMB by the Commission with regard to
this collection of information should be in writing, with reference to File Number S7-23-15 and
be submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of FOIA/PA Services, 100 F
Street NE., Washington, DC 20549-2736. As OMB is required to make a decision concerning
the collections of information between 30 and 60 days after publication, a comment to OMB is
best assured of having its full effect if OMB receives it within 30 days of publication.

449

XIII. Economic Analysis
A. Background
The Commission is concerned that the current regulatory requirements relating to
operational transparency for NMS Stock ATSs may no longer fully meet the goals of furthering
the public interest and protecting investors. The market for NMS stock execution services
consists of registered national securities exchanges, NMS Stock ATSs, and non-ATS brokerdealers that effect OTC transactions. As of the second quarter of 2015, NMS Stock ATSs
account for approximately 15.4% of the total dollar volume in NMS stocks and compete with,
and operate similar to, registered national securities exchanges. However, relative to registered
national securities exchanges, there is limited and differential information publicly available to
market participants about how NMS Stock ATSs operate, including how orders interact, match,
and execute, and the activities of the broker-dealer operators and their affiliates. Not only is
there a lack of consistency with respect to the quality of information that market participants
receive from different NMS Stock ATSs, there are also differences due to the fact that for a
given NMS Stock ATS, some subscribers might have more detailed information relative to other
subscribers about how orders interact, match, and execute on the ATS.
Currently, NMS Stock ATSs provide the Commission with notice of their initial
operations and changes to their operations on Form ATS. Although some NMS Stock ATSs
voluntarily make their Form ATS publicly available on their website, they are not required to do
so, as Form ATS is “deemed confidential when filed.” 677 In light of this, subscribers to these
NMS Stock ATSs may have more information about the operations of these NMS Stock ATSs
677

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii).

450

relative to subscribers to NMS Stock ATSs that do not make their Form ATS public. Moreover,
an NMS Stock ATS may also make different information available to certain market participants
about its operations than it does to other market participants. The Commission is concerned that
this limited and differential level of operational transparency around NMS Stock ATSs may
impede market participants’ ability to adequately discern how their orders interact, match, and
execute on NMS Stock ATSs, or fully understand the activities of an NMS Stock ATS’s broker
dealer-operator and its affiliates, and the conflicts that may arise from such activities. This could
thereby impede a market participant’s ability to evaluate whether submitting order flow to a
particular NMS Stock ATS aligns with its business interests and would help it achieve its
investing or trading objectives. In addition, the Commission is concerned that the current lack of
transparency around the potential conflicts of interest that arise from the activities of the brokerdealer operator and its affiliates hinders market participants’ abilities to protect their interests
when doing business on the NMS Stock ATS.
The Commission is concerned that the current market for NMS stock execution services
does not address the problems described above. Rather, when demanding services that are
typically offered by NMS Stock ATSs – particularly, dark pools – some market participants trade
off the less stringent transparency requirements applicable to NMS Stock ATSs, as compared to
national securities exchanges, in exchange for obtaining some perceived advantages of trading
on these venues, such as keeping their orders dark prior to execution. 678 Furthermore, the
difficulty involved in comparing the operations and execution quality of an NMS Stock ATS to
the operations and execution quality of national securities exchanges or other NMS Stock ATSs
678

See supra notes 123-126 and accompanying text.

451

may limit the ability of market participants to judge whether that tradeoff actually benefits either
themselves or their customers when sending orders to a particular NMS Stock ATS. For
example, as noted above, a certain category of subscribers may have access to services offered
by an NMS Stock ATS that are not offered to another category of subscribers, but subscribers
that fall under the latter category may not be fully aware of any potential disadvantages when
submitting orders to that NMS Stock ATS. 679 Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily
believes that the NMS Stock ATS would generally not have a strong incentive to fully reveal
how it operates to either category of subscriber under the current regulatory regime.
The Commission is proposing to amend Regulation ATS to adopt new Rule 304, which
would provide a process for the Commission to determine if an NMS Stock ATS qualifies for the
exemption from the definition of “exchange” pursuant to Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) and declare an NMS
Stock ATS’s Forms ATS-N either effective or ineffective. The proposal would also provide a
process for the Commission to suspend, limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from
the definition of “exchange” under certain circumstances. The Commission is also proposing to
amend Regulation ATS to require NMS Stock ATSs to file Form ATS-N, which would require
NMS Stock ATSs to provide detailed disclosures about their trading operations and the activities
of their broker-dealer operators and their affiliates. The Commission is proposing to make
certain Form ATS-N filings public by posting them on the Commission’s website and requiring
each NMS Stock ATS that has a website to post on the NMS Stock ATS’s website a direct URL
hyperlink to the Commission’s website that contains the documents enumerated in proposed
Rule 304(b)(2). The Commission is also proposing to amend Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation
679

See supra Section VII.B.4.

452

ATS to require that all ATSs have their procedures and safeguards to protect subscribers’
confidential trading information in writing. The proposed amendments seek to improve and
make more consistent the information available to market participants regarding different NMS
Stock ATSs’ operations and the activities of their broker-dealer operators and their affiliates.
The proposed amendments also aim to make the level and type of disclosures more consistent
between NMS Stock ATSs. The Commission preliminarily believes that making publicly
available a more consistent level of information to all market participants would help them to
better evaluate NMS Stock ATSs as potential routing destinations for their orders.
The Commission is sensitive to the economic consequences and effects, including the
costs and benefits, of its rules. The following economic analysis identifies and considers the
costs and benefits – including the effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation – that
may result from the amendments to Regulation ATS being proposed. These costs and benefits
are discussed below and have informed the policy choices described throughout this release. 680
B. Baseline
The enhanced transparency and oversight of NMS Stock ATSs that the Commission
preliminarily believes would result from the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS would
increase the amount of information and improve the quality of information available to all
680

Exchange Act Section 3(f) requires the Commission, when it is engaged in rulemaking
pursuant to the Exchange Act and is required to consider or determine whether an action
is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection
of investors, whether the action will promote efficiency, competition and capital
formation. See 15 U.S.C. 78c(f). In addition, Exchange Act Section 23(a)(2) requires the
Commission, when making rules pursuant to the Exchange Act, to consider among other
matters the impact that any such rule would have on competition and not to adopt any
rule that would impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in
furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act. See 15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2).

453

market participants about the operations of NMS Stock ATSs and the activities of their brokerdealer operators and their affiliates. As a result, this information should better inform market
participants making decisions about which trading venue to route their orders to. The proposed
amendments would also affect the competitive dynamics between trading venues that compete
for order flow. The numerous parties that would be affected by the proposed amendments
include: existing NMS Stock ATSs; potential new NMS Stock ATSs; current and potential
subscribers of NMS Stock ATSs; broker-dealers that are affiliated with NMS Stock ATSs and
their customers; non-ATS affiliated broker-dealers and their customers; broker-dealers that do
not operate NMS Stock ATSs but send order flow to NMS Stock ATSs; institutional investors
that periodically transact large trades on NMS Stock ATSs; other persons that seek to effect
transactions in NMS stocks on ATSs; and registered national securities exchanges that compete
for order flow with NMS Stock ATSs.
The baseline against which economic costs and benefits, as well as the impact of the
proposed amendments on efficiency, competition, and capital formation, are measured is the
current market and regulatory framework for trading NMS stocks. The baseline, discussed in
further detail below, includes statistics on the number of NMS Stock ATSs; current reporting
requirements for NMS Stock ATSs; the lack of public disclosure of NMS Stock ATSs’
operations, as well as disparate levels of information available to market participants about NMS
Stock ATSs’ operations and the activities of their broker-dealer operators and their affiliates; and
the competitive environment between registered national securities exchanges and NMS Stock
ATSs, among NMS Stock ATSs, and between broker-dealers that operate NMS Stock ATSs and
broker-dealers that do not operate NMS Stock ATSs.
1.

Current NMS Stock ATSs
454

In a concept release on equity market structure in 2010, the Commission stated that in the
third quarter of 2009 there were 37 dark pools and ECNs that traded NMS stocks, and that they
accounted for 18.7% of total NMS share volume. 681 From mid-May to mid-September 2014, the
trading volume of ATSs accounted for approximately 18% of the total dollar volume in NMS
stocks. 682 During the second quarter in 2015, 38 ATSs traded NMS stocks 683 and these 38 ATSs
accounted for approximately 59 billion shares traded in NMS stocks (approximately $2.5 trillion
in dollar volume), representing approximately 15.0% of total share trading volume (15.4% of
total dollar trading volume) on all registered national securities exchanges, ATSs, and non-ATS
OTC trading venues in the second quarter of 2015. 684 There have been several changes in the
market for NMS stocks execution services that may explain the volatility in fraction of share and
dollar volume executed on NMS Stock ATSs since 2009. First, two ECNs have now registered
as national securities exchanges. 685 Second, there has been a rise in the number of ATSs

681

The Commission used data from the third quarter of 2009. Of these 37 ATSs that traded
NMS stocks, 32 were classified as dark pools and 5 were classified as ECNs. These dark
pools accounted for 7.9% of total NMS share volume and the ECNs accounted for 10.8%
of total NMS share volume. Of the 10.8% attributable to ECNs, 9.8% was attributable to
two ECNs that were operated by Direct Edge, which subsequently registered as national
securities exchanges. See 2010 Equity Market Structure Release, supra note 124, at
3598-3599.

682

See SCI Adopting Release, supra note 17, at 72266 n.148 and accompanying text and
n.150.

683

See infra Table 1, “NMS Stock ATSs Ranked by Dollar Trading Volume – March 30,
2015 to June 26, 2015.”

684

See infra Table 1 “NMS Stock ATSs Ranked by Dollar Trading Volume – March 30,
2015 to June 26, 2015.” Total dollar trading volume on all exchanges and off-exchange
trading in the second quarter of 2015 was approximately $16.3 trillion and approximately
397 billion shares. See id.

685

EDGA Exchange, Inc. and EDGX Exchange, Inc. (f/k/a Direct Edge ECN) previously
operated as ECNs and are now registered national securities exchanges. See In the

455

operating as dark pools. Since the third quarter of 2009, the number of ATSs operating as dark
pools has increased from 32 686 to more than 40 today. 687 In 2009, dark pools accounted for 7.9%
of NMS share volume 688 and by the second quarter of 2015, they accounted for 14.9% of NMS
share volume. 689 In summary, in recent years, the number of NMS Stock ATSs has increased,
and the percentage of NMS stocks executed in dark pools has also increased.
2.

Current Reporting Requirements for NMS Stock ATSs

Matter of the Applications of EDGX Exchange, Inc., and EDGA Exchange, Inc. for
Registration as National Securities Exchanges: Findings, Opinion, and Order of the
Commission, Securities Exchange Act Release No. 61698 (March 12, 2010), 75 FR
13151 (March 18, 2010) (File Nos. 10-194 and 10-196). Prior to 2009, there were other
ECNs that also became national securities exchanges. BATS Exchange Inc. (f/k/a BATS
ECN) previously operated as an ECN and is now a registered national securities
exchange. See In the Matter of the Application of BATS Exchange Inc. for Registration
as National Securities Exchange: Findings, Opinion, and Order of the Commission,
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 58375 (August 18, 2008), 73 FR 49498 (August 21,
2008) (File No. 10-198). NYSE Arca, Inc., (f/k/a Archipelago) previously operated as an
ECN and was acquired by the New York Stock Exchange LLC. See Order Granting
Approval of Proposed Rule Change and Amendment Nos. 1, 3, and 5 Thereto and Notice
of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval to Amendment Nos. 6 and 8 Relating
to the NYSE's Business Combination With Archipelago Holdings, Inc., Securities
Exchange Act Release No. 53382 (February 27, 2006), 71 FR 11251 (March 6, 2006)
(SR-NYSE-2005-77). Finally, The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC, prior to becoming a
national securities exchange, acquired Brut ECN and INET ECN. See In the Matter of
the Application of the Nasdaq Stock Market LLC for Registration as National Securities
Exchange: Findings, Opinion, and Order of the Commission, Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 53128 (January 13, 2006), 71 FR 3550, n.137 (January 23, 2006) (File No.
10-131).
686

See supra note 133 and accompanying text.

687

See supra note 134 and accompanying text.

688

See supra note 135 and accompanying text.

689

See infra Table 1 “NMS Stock ATSs Ranked by Dollar Trading Volume – March 30,
2015 to June 26, 2015” and based on data compiled from Forms ATS submitted to the
Commission as of the end of the second quarter of 2015.

456

Even though ATSs directly compete for order flow in NMS stocks with national
securities exchanges, ATSs are exempt from the definition of “exchange” and therefore are not
required to register as national securities exchanges with the Commission. An ATS qualifies for
an exemption from the definition of “exchange” provided by Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) on
the condition that it complies with Regulation ATS, including registering as a broker-dealer,
which includes joining a self-regulatory organization, such as FINRA. Thus, ATSs can collect
and execute orders in securities electronically without registering as a national securities
exchanges under Section 6 of the Exchange Act.
A broker-dealer can become an ATS by filing an initial operation report on Form ATS at
least 20 days before commencing operations. Form ATS requires, among other things, that the
ATS provide information about: classes of subscribers and differences in access to the services
offered by the ATS to different groups or classes of subscribers; the securities the ATS expects
to trade; any entity other than the ATS involved in its operations; the manner in which the
system operates; how subscribers access the trading system; procedures governing order entry
and execution; and trade reporting and clearance and settlement of trades on the ATS. Form
ATS is not approved by the Commission; 690 rather, it provides the Commission with notice of an
ATS’s operations prior to commencing operations. 691
An ATS must notify the Commission of any changes in its operations by filing an
amendment to its Form ATS initial operation report under three circumstances. First, an ATS
must amend Form ATS at least 20 days prior to implementing any material change to the

690

See supra Section II.B.

691

See Instruction A.1 to Form ATS.

457

operation of the ATS. 692 Second, if any information contained in the initial operation report
becomes inaccurate and has not already been reported to the Commission as an amendment, the
ATS must file an amendment on Form ATS within 30 calendar days after the end of each
calendar quarter.693 Third, an ATS must also promptly file an amendment on Form ATS
correcting information that it previously reported on Form ATS after discovery that the
information was inaccurate when filed. 694 Regulation ATS also requires ATSs to report certain
information about transactions on the ATS and information about certain activities on Form
ATS-R within 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter. 695 Form ATS-R requires that
ATSs report both total unit volume and dollar volume of their transactions over the quarter, as
well as a list of all subscribers that were participants during the quarter and a list of all securities
traded on the ATS at any time during the quarter. 696 In addition to the reporting requirements of
Form ATS and Form ATS-R, there are other conditions under Regulation ATS, including those
that address order display and access; fees and fair access; capacity, integrity, and security of
automated systems; examinations, inspections, and investigations; recordkeeping; procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential treatment of trading information; and limitations on the name of
the ATS. 697

692

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(ii).

693

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(iii).

694

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(iv).

695

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(9).

696

See Form ATS-R.

697

See supra Section II.B; see also 17 CFR 242.301(b).

458

All ATSs are currently members of FINRA and must therefore comply with all FINRA
rules applicable to broker-dealers. FINRA rules require ATSs to report transaction volume. For
instance, FINRA Rule 4552 requires each ATS to report to FINRA aggregate weekly trading
volume on a security-by-security basis. 698 FINRA publishes the information regarding NMS
stocks in the S&P500 Index or the Russell 1000 Index and certain exchange-traded products on a
two-week delayed basis, and the information on all other NMS stocks and OTC equity securities
on a four-week delayed basis. 699 In addition to FINRA Rule 4552, other rules pertaining to the
operations of NMS Stock ATSs include FINRA Rules 6160 and 6170, which pertain to the use
of a Market Participant Identifier (“MPID”) for trade reporting purposes. 700
3.

Lack of Public Disclosure of NMS Stock ATS Operations and the Activities
of the Broker-Dealer Operator and the Broker-Dealer Operator’s Affiliates

Regulation ATS states that information on Form ATS is “deemed confidential when
filed.” 701 In the Regulation ATS Adopting Release, the Commission stated that preserving
confidentiality of information on Form ATS would provide ATSs “with the necessary comfort to
make full and complete filings,” and noted that information required on Form ATS “may be

698

See FINRA Rule 4552.

699

See id.

700

See FINRA Rules 6160 and 6170.

701

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii). While FINRA Rule 4552 requires dissemination of
aggregate weekly trading volume on the ATS by stock, this data does not reveal any
information about the ATSs trading operations. Some ATSs such as IEX Trading have
voluntarily made public information about order size and fill rates, as well as volume that
is matched and routed, on a monthly basis. See, e.g., IEX ATS Statistics,
http://www.iextrading.com/stats/.

459

proprietary and disclosure of such information could place alternative trading systems in a
disadvantageous competitive position.” 702
Although the Commission does not require information provided on Form ATS to be
made publicly available, the Commission has observed that some NMS Stock ATSs voluntarily
make publicly available their Forms ATS.703 However, even when ATSs publicly disclose their
Form ATS filings, it is often not easy for market participants to systematically compare one
NMS Stock ATS to another based on these disclosures because the level of detail and the format
in which it is presented on these Form ATSs may vary among the NMS Stock ATSs. In
addition, the Commission notes that some of these NMS Stock ATSs do not make public the full
version of the Form ATS that has been filed with the Commission. Also, NMS Stock ATSs are
under no legal obligation to keep current a Form ATS they have made publicly available, so
market participants cannot immediately confirm whether a publicly posted Form ATS is the most
recent filing of the NMS Stock ATS.
Furthermore, different information is made available to different market participants
regarding the operations of NMS Stock ATSs and the activities of NMS Stock ATSs’ brokerdealer operators and their affiliates. NMS Stock ATSs that either voluntarily make their Form
ATS publicly available, or publish summary information of their operations, may provide to
market participants more information about their operations than NMS Stock ATSs that do not
make their Forms ATS or information about their operations publicly available. Furthermore,
subscribers to an NMS Stock ATS may have greater access to information about the NMS Stock

702

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70864.

703

See supra note 156.

460

ATS than other market participants, including the NMS Stock ATS’s subscriber manual and
access to other subscriber quotes.
NMS Stock ATSs also disclose some execution quality metrics. Exchange Act Rule
605(a) requires every market center, including ATSs, to make publicly available for each
calendar month a report containing standardized data on the covered orders in NMS stocks that it
receives for execution from any market participant. 704 Data on execution quality required under
Exchange Act Rule 605(a) includes order sizes, execution sizes, effective spreads, price
improvement, and quarterly volume of shares traded. As such, market participants have access
to actual market quality statistics of execution quality on NMS Stock ATSs. The Commission
recognizes that some NMS Stock ATSs may publish or otherwise disclose to subscribers market
quality statistics that may be useful to those subscribers in addition to what is currently required
by Exchange Act Rule 605. However, the Commission does not believe that such market quality
statistics are standardized in terms of how they are calculated, and it does not know how much
information subscribers that receive these market quality statistics have about how the NMS
Stock ATS calculates the statistics. The Commission preliminarily believes that some
subscribers may have access to more information about a given NMS Stock ATS than other
ATSs, and also may have more information about that NMS Stock ATS than non-subscribers.
704

A covered order shall mean any market order or any limit order (including immediate-orcancel orders) received by a market center during regular trading hours at a time when a
consolidated best bid and offer is being disseminated, and, if executed, is executed during
regular trading hours, but shall exclude any order for which the customer requests special
handling for execution, including, but not limited to, orders to be executed at a market
opening price or a market closing price, orders submitted with stop prices, orders to be
executed only at their full size, orders to be executed on a particular type of tick or bid,
orders submitted on a "not held" basis, orders for other than regular settlement, and
orders to be executed at prices unrelated to the market price of the security at the time of
execution. See Rule 605(a)(8).

461

The differences in information that certain subscribers have about an NMS Stock ATS’s
operations may be manifested through channels other than having differential access to Form
ATS, an NMS Stock ATS’s subscriber manual, or being granted access to certain market quality
statistics as provided by an NMS Stock ATS in addition to what is currently publicly disclosed
under Exchange Act Rule 605. To the extent that the NMS Stock ATS provides access to
services to certain subscribers and not others, the subscribers with greater access to the services
of an NMS Stock ATS could be in a position to obtain more knowledge and information about
the operations of NMS Stock ATSs than those subscribers who have limited access to the
services of the NMS Stock ATS. Therefore, subscribers who have greater access to services
offered by the NMS Stock ATS may be able to make more informed choices about their trading
decisions relative to subscribers who have limited access to the services of the NMS Stock ATS.
For instance, a broker-dealer operator may offer products or services in connection with a
subscriber’s use of the NMS Stock ATS, and, as a result, these subscribers may receive more
favorable terms from the broker-dealer operator with respect to their use of the NMS Stock ATS.
Such favorable terms could include preferential routing arrangements, access to certain order
types, or access to a faster connection line to the ATS via a co-location service, as opposed to
through the broker-dealer operator’s SOR (or similar functionality) or algorithm. Granting
access to these favorable terms can result in these subscribers having more detailed information
about how their orders will interact, match, and execute relative to those of other subscribers.
With this detailed information, these subscribers can make more nuanced decisions about which
trading venue suits their trading purposes relative to other subscribers who do not have access to
these services, and thus do not possess an informational advantage.

462

Even if having greater access to the services of an NMS Stock ATS yields additional
information about the operations of the NMS Stock ATS to certain subscribers, it is possible that
subscribers that do not have full access to services of the NMS Stock ATS, and the resulting
additional information, may still want to trade on NMS Stock ATSs in spite of their relative
informational disadvantage. It is possible that had these subscribers possessed more detailed
information about the operations of the NMS Stock ATS, they may have been able to make more
informed – and therefore potentially different – decisions about where to route their orders for
execution.
4.

NMS Stock ATS Treatment of Subscriber Confidential Trading Information

Under current Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation ATS, 705 all ATSs must establish adequate
safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information, and, to ensure
that those safeguards and procedures are followed, the ATS must also establish adequate
oversight procedures. 706 Furthermore, all ATSs are required to preserve certain records pursuant
to Rule 303(a)(1).707 However, neither Rule 301(b)(10) nor Rule 303(a)(1) of Regulation ATS
currently require that an ATS have in writing and preserve their safeguards and procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential trading information, or their related oversight procedures.
Based on the experience of the Commission and its staff from periodic examinations or
investigations of ATSs, the Commission preliminarily believes that ATSs – in particular, ATSs
whose broker-dealer operators are large, multi-service broker-dealers – currently have and
maintain in writing their safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading
705

17 CFR 242.301(b)(10).

706

17 CFR 242.301(b)(10).

707

See supra Section X.

463

information, as well as the oversight procedures to ensure such safeguards and procedures are
followed. Nevertheless, under the current regulatory environment for ATSs, absent specific
questions in an examination by the Commission or its staff, the Commission is not able to
determine the specific ATSs that currently have written safeguards and written procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential trading information based on the disclosure requirements of
current Form ATS.
5.

Current State of Competition Between NMS Stock ATSs and Registered
National Securities Exchanges

In the market for NMS stock execution services, NMS Stock ATSs not only compete
with other NMS Stock ATSs, but they also compete with registered national securities
exchanges. As noted previously, while registered national securities exchanges compete with
NMS Stock ATSs for order flow, NMS Stock ATSs and registered national securities exchanges
are subject to different regulatory regimes, including different obligations to disclose information
about their trading operations and activities. 708 For example, ATSs that operate pursuant to the
exemption from the definition of “exchange” under Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) must register as brokerdealers, 709 and provide notice of their operations on Form ATS. 710 This notice of operations is
not approved or disapproved by the Commission. Form ATS requires ATSs to disclose only
limited aspects of their operations, and ATSs are not required to publicly disclose Form ATS,
which is “deemed confidential when filed.” 711 In addition, ATSs need not publicly disclose
708

See supra Section I (discussing the different mix of obligations and benefits applicable to
ATSs and registered national securities exchanges).

709

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(1).

710

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2).

711

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii).

464

changes to their operations and trading functionality because amendments to Form ATS are not
publicly disclosed. 712 Some market participants therefore have limited access to information
about NMS Stock ATSs, including information related to the types of subscribers, means of
access, order types, market data, and procedures governing the interaction and execution of
orders on the NMS Stock ATS. On the other hand, national securities exchanges, with which
NMS Stock ATSs compete for order flow, must register with the Commission on Form 1, must
file proposed rule changes with the Commission under Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act, and
are SROs. The proposed rule changes of national securities exchanges must be made available
for public comment, 713 and in general, these proposed rule changes publicly disclose, among
other things, details relating to the exchange’s operations, procedures, and fees. National
securities exchanges and other SROs also have regulatory obligations, such as enforcing their
rules and the federal securities laws with respect to their members, which do not apply to market
participants such as ATSs. 714
While national securities exchanges have more regulatory burdens than NMS Stock
ATSs, they also enjoy certain unique benefits that are not afforded to NMS Stock ATSs. While
national securities exchanges are SROs, and are thus subject to surveillance and oversight by the
Commission, they can still establish norms regarding conduct, trading, and fee structures for
external access. ATSs on the other hand are regulated as broker-dealers, and must comply with
the rules of FINRA, which is the SRO to which all ATSs currently belong. Trading venues that

712

Id.

713

See 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

714

See, e.g., Section 19(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), and Section 6(b) of the
Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78f(b).

465

elect to register as national securities exchanges may gain added prestige by establishing listing
standards for their securities. Additionally, national securities exchanges can be direct
participants in the NMS plans, such as the ITS, the CTA Plan, Consolidated Quotation System,
and the OTC/UTP Plan. Direct participation in these systems may provide a higher degree of
transparency and execution opportunity than on NMS Stock ATSs. Furthermore, national
securities exchanges are entitled to share in market data revenue generated by the CTA 715 and
enjoy limited immunity from private liability with respect to their regulatory functions.
Since the adoption of Regulation NMS in 2005, the market for NMS stock execution
services has become more and more fragmented and competitive. Currently there are 11
registered national securities exchanges that effect transactions in NMS stocks, namely, NYSE
MKT LLC (formerly NYSE AMEX and the American Stock Exchange), BATS Exchange, Inc.
(“BATS-Z Exchange”), BATS Y- Exchange, Inc. (“BATS-Y Exchange”) (“BATS-Z Exchange
and BATS-Y Exchange, collectively “the BATS Exchanges”), NASDAQ OMX BX, Inc.
(formerly the Boston Stock Exchange), Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc., EDGA Exchange, Inc.
(“EDGA”), EDGX Exchange, Inc. (“EDGX”), The Nasdaq Stock Market LLC (“Nasdaq”), New
York Stock Exchange LLC (“NYSE”), NYSE Arca, Inc. (“NYSE Arca”), and NASDAQ OMX
PHLX, Inc. (formerly Philadelphia Stock Exchange). 716
Several of these national securities exchanges (NYSE Arca, Nasdaq, BATS Z-Exchange,
EDGA and EDGX) previously operated as ECNs or acquired ECNs as part of their trading
715

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70880, 70902-70903 (discussing
generally some of the obligations and benefits of registering as a national securities
exchange).

716

As noted above, National Stock Exchange, Inc. ceased trading on its system as of the
close of business on May 30, 2014. See supra note 118.

466

platforms. 717 A reason why an ECN might want to register as a national securities exchange is
so that it can participate in and earn market data fees from U.S. tape plans, reduce clearing costs
and operate a primary listings business. 718
Over the past decade, with the increase in fragmentation in the market for execution
services, there has been a shift in the market share of trading volume in NMS stocks across
trading venues. For example, there has been a decline in market share of trading volume for
exchange-listed stocks of the two traditionally dominant trading venues, NYSE and Nasdaq. The
market share of the NYSE in NYSE-listed stocks fell dramatically from approximately 80% in
2005 to 20% in 2013, and for Nasdaq-listed stocks, Nasdaq’s market share fell by approximately
half, from 50% in 2005 to 25% in 2013. 719 Over the same time period, there has been an
increase in market share on other newer national securities exchanges such as NYSE Arca,
BATS-Z, BATS-Y, EDGA and EDGX, and an increase in the market share of off-exchange
trading, which includes both internalization by dealers and trading on NMS Stock ATSs. 720 As
discussed above, there has also been an increase in the number of NMS Stock ATSs that operate
as dark pools, and the market share for these NMS Stock ATSs has increased. 721 Thus, greater
fragmentation in the market for NMS stock execution services over the past decade has resulted

717

See supra note 685 and accompanying text.

718

See BATS Global Markets, Inc., Amendment to Form S-1 Registration Statement,
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1519917/000119312512125661/d179347ds1a.ht
m.

719

See Angel, James, Lawrence Harris, and Chester Spatt (2013), “Equity Trading in the
21st Century: An Update,” working paper,
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1584026.

720

See id.

721

See supra Section XIII.B.1.

467

in trading volume being executed on different venues, some of which include NMS Stock ATSs,
particularly NMS Stock ATSs that operate as dark pools.
As discussed above, NMS Stock ATSs face lower regulatory burdens than national
securities exchanges. Because national securities exchanges are SROs, they are subject to
certain regulatory obligations, such as enforcing their own rules and the federal securities laws
with respect to their members. NMS Stock ATSs do not have such oversight and enforcement
responsibilities. 722 The Commission recognizes that the growth in the number of NMS Stock
ATSs could be driven by these less stringent regulatory obligations.
6.

Competition Among NMS Stock ATSs

NMS Stock ATSs also compete amongst each other in a niche in the market for NMS
stock execution services. The rise in the number of NMS Stock ATSs has not only affected
competition between national securities exchanges and ATSs for order flow of NMS stocks, it
has also impacted competition among NMS Stock ATSs. Table 1 depicts the market share of
total dollar volume for NMS stocks, and the total share volume for NMS stocks for individual
ATSs, based on data collected from ATSs pursuant to FINRA Rule 4552 for 13 weeks of trading
from late March 2015 to late June 2015. Even though there are many NMS Stock ATSs, much
of the NMS stock dollar volume on ATSs is transacted by only a handful of venues. Table 1
shows that the top eight NMS Stock ATSs ranked by dollar volume accounted for 61.1% of total
dollar volume transacted on ATSs and 58.9% of total share volume transacted on ATSs from late
March 2015 to late June 2015.
Table 1: NMS Stock ATSs Ranked by Dollar Trading Volume

722

See supra note 714.

468

(March 30, 2015 to June 26, 2015)
This table shows the 38 ATSs that effected transactions in NMS stocks from March 30, 2015 to
June 26, 2015, ranked in descending order by dollar volume transacted. ATS data is reported
weekly, and these dates approximately correspond to the second quarter of 2015. Dollar volume
transacted on an ATS is calculated by multiplying the share volume for a given NMS stock on
the ATS in a given week by the average trade price for that week. Dollar volume for each NMS
stock is then aggregated across all NMS stocks that traded on the given ATS in that week. Also
reported in this table is the number of trades, share volume, each NMS Stock ATS’s market
share of all NMS Stock ATS dollar volume and NMS Stock ATS share volume in that quarter.

469

Notes: [1] Total Consolidated Volume includes all trading in NMS stocks on all national
securities exchanges, ATSs, and non-ATS OTC trading. [2] Dark Pools are defined as all NMS
Stock ATSs with the exception of ECNs.
Sources: Data collected from ATSs pursuant to FINRA Rule 4552; Trade and Quote (TAQ)
Data; Market Volume Summary, https://www.batstrading.com/market_summary/. Data
compiled from Forms ATS filed with the Commission as of the end of, and during the second
quarter of 2015.

Table 2, which is based on data collected from NMS Stock ATSs pursuant to FINRA
Rule 4552 for 13 weeks of trading from late March 2015 to late June 2015, shows the average
trade size, which is share volume divided by the number of trades on each of the NMS Stock

470

ATSs. The table reveals marked differences in the average trade size of transactions executed on
the various NMS Stock ATSs. Six NMS Stock ATSs had average trade sizes in excess of 10,000
shares. This suggests that some NMS Stock ATSs may receive large block orders and execute
large trades.723 One of the advantages for market participants of trading on block crossing
networks is the ability to execute large block orders while minimizing the movement of prices
against their trading interest. 724
While these NMS Stock ATSs on average execute large size trades, the combined market
share of these NMS Stock ATSs is only 7.8% when measured in dollar volume, and 3.7% when
measured in share volume. The vast majority of NMS Stock ATSs have average trade sizes
between 150 and 450 shares. The two NMS Stock ATSs with the highest market shares
(measured either in dollar volume or share volume) have average trade sizes of 181 and 157
shares, respectively.
Though NMS Stock ATSs compete with each other in a niche in the market for NMS
stock execution services, the trade sizes in Table 2 actually suggest that this niche market may
not be very different from the market as a whole. The average trade size on NMS Stock ATSs is
214 shares, which is not significantly different from the average trade size of 181 shares on
registered national securities exchanges. 725 Thus, on average, the trade size for executions on
NMS Stock ATSs and national securities exchanges appears similar.

723

For purposes of this analysis we considered block orders as orders of more than 10,000
shares, which is the traditional definition for block orders. See supra note 126.

724

See supra notes 124-125 and accompanying text.

725

These results are consistent with prior findings that average trade sizes on “lit” national
securities exchanges are similar to those taking place on “dark ATSs.” See Tuttle: ATS
Trading in NMS Stocks, supra note 126. Unlike “lit” national securities exchanges, dark

471

Table 2: NMS Stock ATSs Ranked by Average Trade Size
(March 30, 2015 to June 26, 2015)
This table shows 38 ATSs that effected transactions in NMS stocks from March 30, 2015 to June
26, 2015, ranked in descending order by average trade size. ATS data is reported weekly, and
these dates correspond approximately to the second quarter of 2015. Also reported in this table
is the raw number of trades, share volume, dollar volume, and each NMS Stock ATS’s market
share of all NMS Stock ATS dollar volume and NMS Stock ATS share volume. Dollar volume
transacted on an ATS is calculated by multiplying the share volume for a given NMS stock on
the ATS in a given week by the average trade price for that week. Dollar volume for each NMS
stock is then aggregated across all NMS stocks that traded on the given ATS in that week.

ATSs do not publicly disseminate top of the limit-order book information. See id. See
also supra note 123 and accompanying text.

472

Note: [1] Registered national securities exchanges that effect transactions in NMS stocks
include NYSE MKT LLC, BATS Exchange, Inc.; BATS Y- Exchange, Inc.; NASDAQ OMX
BX, Inc.; Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.; EDGA Exchange, Inc.; EDGX Exchange, Inc.; The
Nasdaq Stock Market LLC; New York Stock Exchange LLC; NYSE Arca, Inc.; and NASDAQ
OMX PHLX, Inc. National Stock Exchange ceased trading on May 30, 2014, and is therefore
not included in the calculation of average trade size on registered national securities exchanges.
Sources: Data collected by ATSs pursuant to FINRA Rule 4552, Trade and Quote (TAQ) Data;
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 72107, supra note 118.
While many NMS Stock ATSs operating today are similar with respect to the limited
transparency they provide with respect to their trading model, the Commission understands that
the services offered vary significantly across NMS Stock ATSs. Some NMS Stock ATSs offer
mid-point matching services exclusively while others may have more complex matching

473

algorithms. Some other NMS Stock ATSs offer preferential treatment in execution priority to
some groups of subscribers, but not others, and some NMS Stock ATSs may allow subscribers to
avoid trading with specific counterparties. Additionally, order types and their characteristics can
also vary significantly across NMS Stock ATSs, including with respect to how particular order
types interact with other order types, which could affect execution priorities. Even though an
NMS Stock ATS might not be privy to detailed information about the operations of other NMS
Stock ATSs, it may be able to garner general information about the differential services offered
by its competitors through websites and forums, 726 enabling it to modify its products and
services to better compete within the market for NMS stock execution services. Thus, while an
NMS Stock ATS may currently make available certain information about its products and
services in an attempt to enable market participants to differentiate the ATS’s products and
services from those of its competitors, an NMS Stock ATS may not be incented to fully reveal
how orders interact, match and execute on its platform, because revealing such information may
adversely impact the ATS’s position within the market by also informing its competitors.
7.

Competition Between Broker-Dealers That Operate NMS Stock ATSs and
Broker-Dealers That Do Not Operate NMS Stock ATSs

Competition for NMS stock order flow not only exists between national securities
exchanges and NMS Stock ATSs and among NMS Stock ATSs, but also exists between the
broker-dealers that operate NMS Stock ATSs and those broker-dealer operators that do not
operate NMS Stock ATSs. As discussed above, most ATSs that currently transact in NMS
726

Furthermore, a broker-dealer that operates an ATS may also be a subscriber to one or
more ATSs that are owned or operated by other broker-dealers, and in this capacity, may
obtain information about how such unaffiliated ATS(s) operate. For example, the
broker-dealer operator of an ATS that is a subscriber to an unaffiliated ATS may obtain
information about order types and priority rules of the unaffiliated ATS.

474

stocks are operated by multi-service broker-dealers that engage in significant brokerage and
dealing activities in addition to their ATS operations. 727 These multi-service broker-dealers
operate one or more NMS Stock ATS as a complement to the broker-dealer’s other service lines,
often using the ATS(s) as an opportunity to execute customer orders “in house” before seeking
contra-side interest at outside execution venues. They may also execute orders in NMS stocks
internally on non-ATS trading centers by trading as principal against such orders, or crossing
orders as agent in a riskless principal capacity, before routing the orders to an ATS that they
operate.
The current competitive environment in which NMS Stock ATSs operate suggests that
broker-dealers who operate their own NMS Stock ATS(s) may have certain trading advantages
relative to broker-dealers that do not operate their own NMS Stock ATS. Broker-dealer owned
NMS Stock ATSs may provide their business units or affiliates, that are also subscribers to the
NMS Stock ATS, access to certain services, which may result in trading advantages, such as
providing faster access to the ATS or priority in executions over other subscribers, such as
broker-dealers that do not have their own ATS platform and may route their orders to these
ATSs.
8.

Effect of NMS Stock ATSs on the Current Market for NMS Stock Execution
Services

As discussed above, the current market for NMS stock execution services consists of
competition for order flow among national securities exchanges, NMS Stock ATSs, and broker-

727

See supra Section III.B.

475

dealers who operate or control non-ATS trading centers. 728 This section specifically discusses
the impact that this current market for NMS stock execution services has on trading costs to
market participants; the process by which the price of NMS stocks are determined in the market
(“price discovery”); and market efficiency.
a. Trading Costs
Since the adoption of Regulation ATS in 1998 and the implementation of Regulation
NMS in 2005, trading costs have, on average, declined significantly in the U.S. Institutional
trading costs – particularly for large capitalization stocks – are amongst the lowest in the
world. 729 Since 1998, share and dollar trading volume, has generally increased, and with the
exception of the financial crisis, bid-ask spreads (both quoted and effective spreads) have
narrowed significantly. 730 Some research has suggested that these lower trading costs can, in
part, be driven by the rising fragmentation of trading volume and competition for order flow,
through the proliferation of new trading venues such as NMS Stock ATSs. 731
NMS Stock ATSs provide an environment whereby certain market participants can trade
at low costs relative to national securities exchanges. For instance, if market participants submit

728

See supra Section XIII.A. See also supra note 123 (describing dark pools that are not
ATSs) and note 387 (describing non-ATS trading centers).

729

See “View Point: US Equity Market Structure: An Investor Perspective,” BlackRock,
April 2014, https://www.blackrock.com/corporate/en-us/literature/whitepaper/viewpointus-equity-market-structure-april-2014.pdf; and Angel, supra note 719.

730

See BlackRock, supra note 729; and Angel, supra note 719.

731

See Foucault, Thierry and A.J. Menkveld, 2008, “Competition for Order Flow and Smart
Order Routing Systems,” Journal of Finance 63, 19–58; O’Hara, M. and M. Ye, 2011, “Is
Market Fragmentation Harming Market Quality?” Journal of Financial Economics 100,
459–74; and Colliard, J.E. and Thierry Foucault (2012), “Trading Fees and Efficiency in
Limit Order Markets,” Review of Financial Studies 25, 3389–421.

476

to a national securities exchange a block order or a large “parent” order shredded into smaller
“child” orders, they may experience “price impact” when others observe their trading and infer
the presence of a large order. That is, the price at which these child orders execute may get
subsequently worse from the time of the initial order submission to the time of the final
execution of the order. Thus, when working these child orders, the order originator may seek to
keep their executions “quiet” to minimize adverse price moves that may otherwise occur as other
market participants infer that order originator is an institutional investor that is a large buyer or
seller. As such, trading on NMS Stock ATSs may provide a useful tool whereby institutional
investors may be able to reduce the extent to which their own trading signals additional trading
intentions and obtain enhanced execution quality for their orders.
The current market for NMS stock execution services – which includes NMS Stock ATSs
– provides value to market participants. If all NMS Stock ATSs were to cease operations,
market participants may incur costs associated with not being able to find an adequate trading
venue that offers benefits similar to those that NMS Stock ATSs provide. For example, certain
market participants may be unable to find a trading center that adequately minimizes the
revelation of their trading interest. Therefore, some of the trades by these market participants,
which would have been executed on NMS Stock ATSs, may no longer be executed at all if NMS
Stock ATSs cease operations. Even though NMS Stock ATSs provide value to some market
participants by allowing them to trade on a venue that mitigates the signaling of information
regarding their trading interest while keeping their trading costs at a low level, NMS Stock ATSs
are characterized by a lack of transparency regarding their operations and the activities of their
broker-dealer operators and the broker-dealer operator’s affiliates. Currently, disclosures on
Form ATS are not required to be made public, and even when an NMS Stock ATS voluntarily
477

discloses its Form ATS, the information provided tends to be limited. The Commission has also
observed that NMS Stock ATSs vary with respect to the depth and extent of their disclosures on
Form ATS, including basic aspects of their operations. This heterogeneity in terms of the level of
disclosure pertaining to NMS Stock ATS operations has resulted in certain costs for market
participants, in that currently a market participant has to expend some effort searching for a
trading venue that would serve its investing or trading objectives. A by-product of these search
costs for some market participants is uncertainty pertaining to how their orders will be handled.
Because there is no current requirement for NMS Stock ATSs to disclose information about their
operations to the public, some subscribers to NMS Stock ATSs – particularly subscribers to
those NMS Stock ATSs that have not made their Form ATS public – may not fully know how
their orders are handled. Furthermore, for a specific NMS Stock ATS, some subscribers may
have been provided more information regarding how their orders will interact, match, and
execute on the NMS Stock ATS, exacerbating this uncertainty.
b. Price Discovery
The current market for NMS stock execution services has resulted in the fragmentation of
trading volume. While this fragmentation – which has in part been due to the rise in NMS Stock
ATSs – has been a factor in currently providing low trading costs for market participants, 732 the
contributions that this current market for NMS stock execution services provides in terms of
price discovery has been mixed. Some academic studies imply that while national securities
exchanges and NMS Stock ATSs are regulated differently, their coexistence in the current
market has had a positive contribution to price discovery, as it has led to more aggressive
732

See supra note 731.

478

competition among market participants in providing liquidity, which in turn has improved price
discovery. 733 Other academic studies have suggested that because some NMS Stock ATSs are
crossing networks and often derive their prices from national securities exchanges, price impact
costs that result from trading on a national securities exchange harm prices on NMS Stock ATSs,
resulting in less trading and harming price discovery. 734
Some academic studies have also suggested that the coexistence of national securities
exchanges and NMS Stock ATSs has led to market segmentation, i.e. to the extent that certain
subscribers of NMS Stock ATSs have information regarding how orders will interact, match, and
execute on an NMS Stock ATS, these subscribers may be able to make more informed decisions
about where to route their orders, and, therefore, such subscribers may congregate and trade on
either NMS Stock ATSs or national securities exchanges based on that information. These
academic studies further suggest that this market segmentation, whereby certain subscribers of
NMS Stock ATSs have information regarding how orders will interact, match and execute and,
therefore, trade on NMS Stock ATSs or national securities exchanges, can improve price
discovery. 735
The theory that market segmentation of market participants leads to price discovery relies
on the assumption that because trade executions on some NMS Stock ATSs are determined by

733

See Boulatov, Alex, and T.J. George, 2013, “Hidden and Displayed Liquidity in
Securities Markets with Informed Liquidity Providers,” Review of Financial Studies 26,
2095–2137.

734

See Ye, Mao, 2011, “A Glimpse into the Dark: Price Formation, Transaction Cost and
Market Share of the Crossing Network,” working paper,
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1521494.

735

See Zhu, Haoxiang, 2014, “Do Dark Pools Harm Price Discovery?” Review of Financial
Studies 27, 747–789. This academic study specifically examines dark pools.

479

matching orders, orders of informed market participants are more likely to cluster on one side of
the market (either the buy-side or the sell-side). 736 For instance, if informed market participants
believe that a security is undervalued, they will be more likely to submit a buy-order; and viceversa if they believe a security is overvalued. This means that if these informed market
participants trade on an NMS Stock ATS, their trading interest will likely cluster towards one
side of the market and there will not be enough orders to take the opposite side of their trades.
As a result, some orders will not be matched and there would be low rates of execution on NMS
Stock ATSs. In contrast, orders by uninformed market participants are less likely to be
correlated with one another because the reasons for their trading are somewhat idiosyncratic to
the market participant.737 These orders by uninformed market participants are, therefore, less
likely to cluster on one side of the market, because trades by uninformed market participants are
not grounded on fundamental information about the stock. As such, the orders from uniformed
market participants will likely have higher rates of execution on NMS Stock ATSs relative to
rates of executions for informed participants. 738 Accordingly, this academic literature predicts
that the set of market participants entering orders on national securities exchanges will contain a
proportionately higher level of informed market participants. 739 This segmentation of market
participants on NMS Stock ATSs and national securities exchanges potentially could result in
736

See id.

737

Uninformed market participants trade for non-informational reasons. In some cases, they
are termed “noise traders,” since their trades are based on their beliefs and sentiments,
and are not grounded on fundamental information. See Vishwanath, Ramanna. and
Chandrasekhar Krishnamurti, 2009, “Investment Management: A Modern Guide to
Security Analysis and Stock Selection,” Springer Publishing.

738

See supra note 735.

739

See id.

480

informed market participants trading on national securities exchanges, and uninformed market
participants trading on NMS Stock ATSs.740 Because informed market participants have better
knowledge about the value of a security than uninformed market participants, this segmentation
can improve price discovery on national securities exchanges. 741
Several academic studies suggest that the presence of NMS Stock ATSs in the current
trading environment deteriorates price discovery 742 and liquidity. 743 When trading, informed
market participants often balance two types of costs, namely price impact costs and execution
costs. On a national securities exchange, an informed market participant’s order experiences
lower execution risk, but because of price impact, each order is subsequently executed at a worse

740

It should be noted that this academic literature posits one theory regarding how the
coexistence of national securities exchanges and NMS Stock ATSs results in segmented
trading of informed and uninformed market participants. See supra note 735. Contrary
to this theory regarding how market segmentation of national securities exchanges and
NMS Stock ATSs can affect price discovery, a motivation for informed market
participants to trade on NMS Stock ATSs is to minimize the price impact of large trades.
Thus, it could be the case that the decision by informed market participants of where to
trade is reduced to whether the value of minimizing the price impact of their trades
outweighs the heightened execution risk (due to the difficulty in finding a counterparty to
take the opposite side of the trade, perhaps because a market participant places a large
order) they might incur if they trade on NMS Stock ATSs See supra note 734.

741

See Zhu, supra note 736; Comerton-Forde, Carole and T.J. Putnins, 2015, “Dark Trading
and Price Discovery,” working paper,
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2183392. Both these studies
specifically examine dark pools.

742

See Ye, Mao, 2011, “A Glimpse into the Dark: Price Formation, Transaction Cost and
Market Share of the Crossing Network,” working paper,
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1521494; Degryse, Hans, Frank de
Jong and Vincent van Kervel, 2015, “The Impact of Dark Trading and Visible
Fragmentation on Market Quality,” Review of Finance 19, 1587-1622. Both these
studies specifically examine dark pools.

743

See Zhu, supra note 736.

481

price. 744 On an NMS Stock ATS, price impact costs are smaller due to there being less
informational dissemination than on national securities exchanges, however, the probability of
execution decreases as order size increases, due to the increased difficulty in finding a
counterparty to take the opposite side of a large trade. 745 Because trading on a national securities
exchange generates price impact, the cost associated with this price impact also could affect a
market participant’s profit on trades executed on an NMS Stock ATS. The reason for this is that
NMS Stock ATSs often match orders at prices derived from national securities exchanges, and if
trading on these national securities exchanges generates worse prices due to price impact, this
could therefore spill over and affect a market participant’s profit on trades executed on the NMS
Stock ATS. This spillover could result in informed market participants trading less aggressively,
which could in turn reduce price discovery. 746 Finally, while low levels of trading on NMS
Stock ATSs are not harmful, price discovery is harmed for high levels of trading on NMS Stock
ATSs (i.e., when trading on NMS Stock ATSs in a given NMS stock exceeds approximately
10% of dollar volume). 747 This implies that when most orders are filled on NMS Stock ATSs,

744

See Ye, supra note 742.

745

See Ye, supra note 742.

746

See Ye, supra note 742 (for theoretical work on this topic). See also Comerton-Forde and
Putnins, supra note 741, for empirical work on this topic. Specifically, using Australian
data, the latter paper finds that the migration of order flow into dark pools removes
valuable information from the price formation process, and leads to increased adverse
selection, larger bid-ask spreads (lower liquidity) and larger price impacts on the
exchange (lower market quality). Both of these studies specifically examine dark pools.

747

See also Comerton-Forde and Putnins, supra note 741.

482

market participants may withdraw displayed quotes because of the reduced likelihood of those
orders being filled. 748
Another element that may affect market quality is order internalization by broker-dealers.
Academic literature has previously proposed theoretical models where broker-dealer operators
have an incentive to internalize uninformed orders, by trading as principal against such orders or
crossing orders as agent in a riskless principal capacity, before routing the orders to their
respective ATSs. 749 The literature has also argued that internalization of order flow reduces
market depth and price informativeness. 750 According to this literature, the internalization of
order flow by broker-dealers, some of whom operate NMS Stock ATSs, is associated with wider
spreads (quoted, effective, and realized), higher price impact per trade, and increased volatility of
trades on the registered national securities exchanges, which translates into an increased cost for
market participants, where market participants pay approximately $3.9 million more per security
per year. 751 In the current operational environment of NMS Stock ATSs, based on the
Commission’s experience, subscribers’ orders or other trading interest could be removed from
the broker-dealer’s NMS Stock ATS and routed to, among other destinations, another trading
center operated by the broker-dealer operator for internalization. Thus, the fact that some
748

See CFA Institute, 2012, “Dark Pools, Internalization, and Equity Market Quality,”
http://www.cfapubs.org/doi/pdf/10.2469/ccb.v2012.n5.1. This study specifically
examines dark pools.

749

See Chordia, Tarun and Avanidhar Subrahmanyam, 1995, “Market making, the tick size,
and payment-for-order flow: Theory and evidence,” Journal of Business 68, 543–75;
Easley, Kiefer and O’Hara, 1996, “Cream-skimming or profit-sharing? The curious role
of purchased order flow,” Journal of Finance 51, 811–33.

750

See Chakravarty, Sugato and Asani Sarkar, 2002, “A model of broker’s trading, with
applications to order flow internalization,” Review of Financial Economics 11, 19–36.

751

See Weaver, Daniel G., 2014, “The Trade-At Rule, Internalization, and Market Quality,”
working paper, http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1846470.

483

broker-dealers operate their own NMS Stock ATS, and yet internalize some order flow rather
than executing it on their own NMS Stock ATS, may have a deleterious effect on market quality.
c. Market Efficiency
Currently, the coexistence of national securities exchanges and NMS Stock ATSs seems
to have beneficial effects on market efficiency. One academic study suggests that while not all
trades that execute on NMS Stock ATSs are large block trades, those that are have been seen to
be beneficial to market efficiency. 752 If NMS Stock ATSs were not a viable trading venue for
market participants, market participants might not execute large orders at all because of the price
impact costs of executing on a national securities exchange. Therefore, the ability for market
participants to execute large trades on NMS Stock ATSs generates liquidity. The same study
also suggests that small trades that execute on NMS Stock ATSs are beneficial in that they also
generate market efficiency. 753
C. Economic Effects and Effects on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital Formation
The Commission has considered the economic effects of the proposed amendments to
Rule 3a1-1(a) and Regulation ATS. This section provides an overview of the broad economic
considerations relevant to the proposed amendments to Rule 3a1-1(a) and Regulation ATS, and
the economic effects, including the costs, benefits, and the effects on efficiency, competition, and
capital formation. Additional economic effects, including benefits and costs related to specific
requirements of the proposed amendments to Rule 3a1-1(a) and Regulation ATS, are also
discussed.

752

See Comerton-Forde and Putnins, supra note 741.

753

See id.

484

The proposed amendments to Rule 3a1-1(a) and Regulation ATS 754 are designed to
generate greater transparency about the operations of NMS Stock ATSs and the activities of their
broker-dealer operators and their affiliates. By requiring NMS Stock ATSs to provide detailed,
public disclosures about their operations and the activities of their broker-dealer operators and
their broker-dealer operators’ affiliates, the Commission preliminarily believes that the proposal
would reduce the discrepancy in information that different market participants receive about
NMS Stock ATS operations and provide market participants – particularly those that have access
to less information about NMS Stock ATS operations – with more information about the means
by which orders and trading interest interact, match, and execute on NMS Stock ATSs. The
Commission preliminarily believes that the proposal would help market participants make betterinformed decisions about where to route their orders in order to achieve their trading or
investment objectives, improve the efficiency of capital allocation, and enhance execution
quality.
The Commission further understands that the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS
may generate some uncertainty for NMS Stock ATSs in that, under the proposal, the
Commission would declare a Form ATS-N effective or ineffective (which is not currently the
case with respect to Form ATS), and this may act as a potential deterrent for ATSs wishing to
transact NMS stocks, or legacy NMS Stock ATSs that would be required to file Form ATS-N.
Moreover, the proposed amendments to Rule 3a1-1(a) and Regulation ATS could be costly,
because NMS Stock ATSs would have to disclose detailed information about their operations
and the activities of their broker-dealer operators and their affiliates. Together, these could harm
754

See supra Section IV.

485

the competitive dynamics in the market for NMS stock execution services, which includes
competition between national securities exchanges and NMS Stock ATSs, among NMS Stock
ATSs themselves, and between broker-dealers that operate NMS Stock ATSs and those that do
not. 755 Increased costs associated with disclosure requirements for NMS Stock ATSs could
result in some NMS Stock ATSs exiting the market or could create a disincentive for potential
NMS Stock ATSs to enter the market. However, in spite of these costs, and as discussed in more
detail below, the Commission preliminarily believes that the NMS Stock ATSs that remain in the
market may propagate greater interaction between buyers and sellers who trade on these venues,
fostering not only trading between one and another, but also facilitating the price discovery
process and capital formation. The consistent set of information that is proposed to be disclosed
in Form ATS-N may impact how market participants react in terms of their trading, which may
improve market efficiency. 756
Moreover, the Commission notes that increased transparency regarding the operations of
NMS Stock ATSs may impact competition between broker-dealers that operate NMS Stock
ATSs and broker-dealers who trade NMS stocks but do not operate an NMS Stock ATS.
Because broker-dealers who transact in NMS stocks but do not operate ATSs are not subject to
the proposed operational transparency requirements, these broker-dealers may be at a
competitive advantage and attract and internalize order flow that would otherwise be entered and
executed on NMS Stock ATSs. Furthermore, greater operational transparency of NMS Stock
ATSs could also impact competition between NMS Stock ATSs and national securities

755

See infra Section XIII.C.2.

756

See id.

486

exchanges, resulting in a larger amount of order flow being executed on national securities
exchanges.
Further, the Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed amendments to Rule
301(b)(10) and 303(a)(1) that would require ATSs to establish and preserve written safeguards
and written procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information, as well as the
oversight procedures to ensure such safeguards and procedures are followed should strengthen
the effectiveness of those safeguards and procedures and better enable an NMS Stock ATS to
protect confidential subscriber trading information and implement and monitor the adequacy of,
and the ATS’s compliance with, its safeguards and procedures. 757 The Commission also
preliminarily believes that requiring ATSs to adopt written safeguards and written procedures
will benefit the Commission by helping it better understand, monitor, and evaluate how each
ATS protects subscribers’ confidential trading information from unauthorized disclosure and
access. 758 The Commission also expects that this proposed requirement will help oversight by
the SRO of which the NMS Stock ATS’s broker-dealer operator is a member.
The Commission has attempted, where possible, to quantify the benefits and costs
anticipated by the proposed amendments to Rule 3a1-1(a) and Regulation ATS. The
Commission notes, however, that many of the costs and benefits of the proposed amendments are
difficult to quantify with any degree of certainty. For instance, it is unclear how many NMS
Stock ATSs might cease operations (or, less likely, switch to trading in a different class of
securities) if they are required to publicly disclose information about their operations on

757

See supra Section IX.

758

See id.

487

proposed Form ATS-N. It is also unclear how many NMS Stock ATSs may decide to register as
national securities exchanges, as some ECNs have in previous years, as a result of the proposed
amendments to Rule 3a1-1(a) and Regulation ATS. 759 Therefore, quantifying the effects that the
expanded disclosure requirements would have on market liquidity and capital formation is
difficult. As the decision for an NMS Stock ATS to continue operating or to exit the market
depends on numerous factors, one of which being the extent to which its competitive advantage
is driven by its matching methodology or other operational characteristics, the Commission is
unable to fully determine the extent to which the proposal would affect this decision.
Furthermore, the decision to exit is idiosyncratic to the NMS Stock ATS and the Commission
cannot ascertain whether large or small ATSs will be more prone to leaving the market.
Additionally, the Commission cannot estimate the fraction of order flow that would be routed to
other NMS Stock ATSs or national securities exchanges if some ATSs ceased operations. In
light of all of these limitations on available information, the Commission is unable to make
reasonable assumptions regarding the number of NMS Stock ATSs that may cease operations
and exit the market; the number of NMS Stock ATSs that may register as national securities
exchanges; or the fraction of order flow that would be routed to other NMS Stock ATSs or
national securities exchanges if some ATSs ceased operations. Given that the Commission is
unable to make these assumptions, it is unable to quantify the effect of the proposed amendments
to Rule 3a1-1(a) and Regulation ATS on trading volume on the NMS Stock ATS as well as
quantify the effects on price discovery and market efficiency.
1.
759

Costs and Benefits of Proposed Enhanced Filing Requirements

See supra note 685 and accompanying text.

488

As discussed above, the Commission is proposing to amend Rule 3a1-1(a) and
Regulation ATS to require ATSs that effect transactions in NMS stocks comply with the
requirements of proposed Rule 304 in order to qualify for exemption from the definition of
“exchange.” 760 The proposed amendments would require an NMS Stock ATS to file reports and
amendments pursuant to proposed Rule 304, which includes the requirement to file proposed
Form ATS-N, in lieu of current Form ATS, to disclose information about its operations and the
activities of its broker-dealer operator and its affiliates.
As noted above, an NMS Stock ATS may provide some subscribers access to certain
trading information or services that it does not provide to others. 761 For example, an NMS Stock
ATS may offer certain order types or special fees or rebates to particular subscribers, which
might result in those subscribers obtaining an advantage when trading on the ATS. The
proposed amendments would require NMS Stock ATSs to describe any such differentiation of
services or information among subscribers, which would include certain disclosures related to
the operations of their broker-dealer operators. The Commission preliminarily believes that
those disclosures would help market participants assess potential conflicts of interest that may
adversely impact their trading on the NMS Stock ATS.
Proposed Rule 304 would also provide a process by which the Commission would
declare Form ATS-N filings effective or ineffective, and a process by which the Commission
would review Form ATS-N Amendments and declare ineffective a Form ATS-N Amendment if
it finds that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with
760

See supra Section IV (discussing the proposed amendments). See also proposed Rules
3a1-1(a)(2) and (3), 300, 301, and 304.

761

See supra Section VII.B.10.

489

the protection of investors. The Commission is also proposing a process by which the
Commission could suspend, limit, or revoke an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the definition
of an “exchange” under Rule 3a1-1(a)(2).762 An NMS Stock ATS would not qualify for the
exemption from the definition of “exchange” unless the NMS Stock ATS files Form ATS-N with
the Commission and the Commission declares the Form ATS-N effective. 763
a. Better Regulatory Oversight and Increased Investor Protection
The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed amendments to Rule 3a1-1(a)
and Regulation ATS would result in better regulatory oversight of NMS Stock ATSs and
increased investor protection. Form ATS discloses only limited aspects of an ATS’s operations
as compared to the information that would be provided on Form ATS-N by NMS Stock ATSs.
Form ATS requires, for example, that an ATS provide information about: classes of subscribers
and differences in access to the services offered by the ATS to different groups or classes of
subscribers; securities the ATS expects to trade; any entity other than the ATS involved in its
operations; the manner in which the system operates; how subscribers access the trading system;
procedures governing order entry and execution; and trade reporting, clearance and settlement of
trades on the ATS. On the other hand, Form ATS-N would require an NMS Stock ATS to
disclose information about the manner of operations of the ATS, including: subscribers; hours of
762

Pursuant to proposed Rule 304(b)(2), the Commission would publicly post on its website
each: order of effectiveness of a Form ATS-N; order of ineffectiveness of a Form ATSN; effective Form ATS-N; filed Form ATS-N Amendment; order of ineffectiveness of a
Form ATS-N Amendment; notice of cessation; and order suspending, limiting, or
revoking the exemption from the definition of an “exchange” pursuant to Rule 3a11(a)(2). Proposed Rule 304(b)(3) would also require an NMS Stock ATS that has a
website to post on its website a direct URL hyperlink to the Commission’s website that
contains the documents enumerated in proposed Rule 304(b)(2). See supra Section IV.D.

763

See supra Section IV.C.5.

490

operation; types of orders; connectivity, order entry, and co-location procedures; segmentation of
order flow and notice about segmentation; display of order and other trading interest; trading
services, including matching methodologies, order interaction rules, and order handling and
execution procedures; procedures governing suspension of trading or trading during a system
disruption or malfunction; opening, closing, and after hours procedures; outbound routing
services; fees; market data; trade reporting; clearance and settlement; order display and execution
access (if applicable); fair access (if applicable); and market quality statistics published or
provided to one or more subscribers.
In addition, current Form ATS does not require an ATS to disclose information about the
activities of the broker-dealer operator and the broker-dealer operator’s affiliates in connection
with the ATS whereas the enhanced disclosure requirements under proposed Form ATS-N would
require an NMS Stock ATS to disclose information about the activities of its broker-dealer
operator and the broker-dealer operator’s affiliates that may give rise to potential conflicts of
interest, including: their operation of non-ATS trading centers and other NMS Stock ATSs;
products and services offered to subscribers; arrangements with unaffiliated trading centers;
trading activities on the NMS Stock ATS; smart order router (or similar functionality) and
algorithms used to send or receive orders or other trading interest to or from the ATS; personnel
and third parties used to operate the NMS Stock ATS; differences in the availability of services,
functionalities, or procedures; and safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential
trading information. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes that the enhanced
disclosure requirements under proposed Form ATS-N would result in better regulatory oversight
of NMS Stock ATSs and increased investor protection by providing the Commission, relevant

491

SROs, and market participants with significantly more information with which to analyze and
evaluate how orders are handled and executed on NMS Stock ATSs.
The Commission is proposing that Form ATS-N and Form ATS-N Amendments be filed
electronically in a text-searchable format. The Commission preliminarily believes that requiring
Form ATS-N and Form ATS-N Amendments to be filed in a text-searchable format, coupled
with the enhanced disclosure requirements under the proposal, will facilitate a more effective and
thorough review and analysis of NMS Stock ATSs by regulators, which should yield greater
insights into the operations of NMS Stock ATSs and the activities of their broker-dealer
operators and their affiliates. For example, under the proposal, examiners at the Commission
and the SRO of which an NMS Stock ATS is a member would be able to run automated
processes to review information disclosed on filed Forms ATS-N and Form ATS-N Amendments
in order to select NMS Stock ATSs for examination based on certain criteria for the examination.
Additionally, examiners would be better able to assemble and review a larger pool of data
regarding NMS Stock ATSs to better inform their examinations. Both such benefits could
increase investor protection by improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the examination
process.
Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed process of
declaring a Form ATS-N effective or ineffective and the process to review and declare, if
necessary, Form ATS-N Amendments ineffective would improve the quality of the information
regulators receive from NMS Stock ATSs and increase the protection of investors. The proposed
effectiveness process for a Form ATS-N is designed to provide an opportunity for the
Commission to review Form ATS-N filings before an NMS Stock ATS commences operations
(in the case of new NMS Stock ATSs), or while it continues operations under its Form ATS
492

filing (in the case of legacy NMS Stock ATSs). The Commission preliminarily believes that the
proposed process would allow the Commission to evaluate the adequacy of NMS Stock ATSs’
disclosures for compliance with the Form ATS-N requirements before declaring the Form ATSN effective or ineffective. As a result, once the Commission has made an effectiveness or
ineffectiveness determination, only an NMS Stock ATS for which a Form ATS-N has been
declared effective would be allowed to transact in NMS stocks without registering as a national
securities exchange.
The Commission would make Form ATS-N Amendments public upon filing. As a result,
a publicly disclosed Form ATS-N Amendment could contain potentially inaccurate or
incomplete disclosures at the time it is posted on the Commission’s webpage. Prior to the
conclusion of its review of a Form ATS-N Amendment, the Commission would make the public
aware of the fact that, though the amendment is posted on the Commission’s website, it is still
pending Commission review and could still be declared ineffective. The Commission
preliminarily believes that this process would provide transparency to market participants about
the operations of these ATSs and also provide market participants with information about
forthcoming changes to the NMS Stock ATS while the Commission’s review is pending.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed review and public disclosure
process for a Form ATS-N and Form ATS-N Amendments would allow the Commission to
better protect investors from potentially inaccurate or incomplete disclosures that could
misinform market participants about the operations of an NMS Stock ATS or the activities of its
broker-dealer operator, including how their orders may be handled and executed, and thereby
impact market participants’ decisions about where they should route their orders.

493

If the Commission declares ineffective a Form ATS-N or Form ATS-N Amendment of an
entity, that entity would have the opportunity to address deficiencies in the previously filed form
by filing a new Form ATS-N or Form ATS-N Amendment. However, the Commission
recognizes that an ineffectiveness declaration could impose costs on that entity – such as costs
from having to cease operations, roll back a change in operations, or delay the start of operations
– and could impose costs on the overall market for NMS stock execution services resulting from
a potential reduction in competition or the removal of a sole provider of a niche service within
the market. Furthermore, the removal of a sole provider of a niche service from the market could
also impose costs on individual market participants, as they may have to subscribe to another
NMS Stock ATS, or they may have to incur the cost of making changes to their SOR (or similar
functionality) or algorithm in order to submit their orders for execution. However, NMS Stock
ATSs and market participants would not incur these costs unless the Commission declares a
Form ATS-N or a Form ATS-N Amendment ineffective. The Commission preliminarily
believes that NMS Stock ATSs would be incentivized to comply with the requirements of Form
ATS-N, as well as federal securities laws, including the other requirements of Regulation ATS,
to avoid an ineffectiveness declaration, which produces benefits to the market. Therefore, the
Commission preliminarily believes that there would be no undue burden imposed in connection
with resubmitting Form ATS-N for these entities or from an ineffective declaration in general.
b. Implementation and Ongoing Costs
The Commission understands that both new and existing NMS Stock ATSs would incur
implementation costs in order to comply with the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS.
Regardless of their size and transaction volume, all NMS Stock ATSs would need to ensure that
their disclosures meet the requirements of proposed Form ATS-N and that they correctly file
494

their Form ATS-N. NMS Stock ATSs may develop internal processes to ensure correct and
complete reporting on Form ATS-N, which can be viewed as a fixed setup cost, which NMS
Stock ATSs may have to incur, regardless of the amount of trading activity that takes place on
them. As a result, these implementation costs may fall disproportionately on lower-dollar
volume NMS Stock ATSs (as opposed to ATSs transacting greater dollar volume), since all
ATSs would likely incur these fixed implementation costs. However, smaller NMS Stock ATSs
that are not operated by multi-service broker-dealer operators and do not engage in other
brokerage or dealing activities in addition to their NMS Stock ATSs would likely incur lower
implementation costs because certain sections of proposed Form ATS-N (such as several items
of Part III) would not be applicable to these NMS Stock ATSs.
Relative to the baseline, the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS would also impose
implementation costs for all NMS Stock ATSs, including legacy ATSs, in that they would
require NMS Stock ATSs to adhere to heightened disclosure and reporting requirements
regarding their operations. Existing NMS Stock ATSs should already comply with the current
requirements of Regulation ATS. Therefore, the compliance costs of the proposed amendments
should be incremental relative to the costs associated with the existing requirements.
Specifically, the Commission preliminarily believes that the incremental costs would consist
largely of providing new disclosures and updating records and retention policies necessary to
comply with the proposed amendments. Based on the analysis for purposes of the PRA, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS relating
to Rules 301(b)(2)(viii) and 304 of Regulation ATS, including Proposed Form ATS-N, could

495

result in a one-time burden of 141.3 hours for each NMS Stock ATS, 764 which would result in an
estimated one-time paperwork compliance cost to an NMS Stock ATS of approximately
$42,838.50. 765 This would result in an aggregate estimated initial hour burden for all NMS
Stock ATSs to complete Form ATS-N and comply with proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(viii) and 304
of Regulation ATS of 6,499.8 hours at an estimated cost of $1,970,571.00.766
Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily believes that there would be implementation
costs for ATSs that have not reduced to writing their safeguards and procedures to protect
subscribers’ confidential trading information and their oversight procedures to ensure that those
safeguards and procedures are followed, which are required under Rule 301(b)(10) of Regulation
ATS. 767 Based on the analysis for purposes of the PRA, the Commission preliminarily estimates
that, in order to comply with the proposed amendments to Rules 301(b)(10) and 303(a)(1)(v) of

764

See supra note 643 and accompanying text.

765

(Attorney at $380 x 54.8 hours) + (Compliance Manager at $283 x 43.5 hours) + (Senior
Systems Analyst at $260 x 34.5 hours) + (Senior Marketing Manager at $254 x 1 hour) +
(Compliance Clerk at $64 x 7.5 hours) = $42,838.50. This preliminary compliance cost
estimate for a Form ATS-N includes the estimated costs associated with completing Part
III, Item 2 and Part IV, Items 14 and 15 of proposed Form ATS-N, but as explained
above, the Commission preliminarily believes that the majority of NMS Stock ATSs
would not be required to complete those items of the proposed form. See supra Section
XII.D.2.b.

766

141.3 burden hours x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 6,499.8 burden hours. $42,838.50 x 46
NMS Stock ATSs = $1,970,571.00. This preliminary aggregate compliance cost estimate
assumes that all NMS Stock ATSs would be required to complete Part III, Item 2 and
Part IV, Items 14 and 15 of proposed Form ATS-N. However, as noted above, the
Commission preliminarily estimates that only 6 NMS Stock ATSs would be required to
complete Part III, Item 2, see supra note 609, only 1 NMS Stock ATS would be required
to complete Part IV, Item 14, see supra note 641 and accompanying text, and only 2
NMS Stock ATSs would be required to complete Part IV, Item 15, see id.

767

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(10).

496

Regulation ATS, 768 it could take approximately 15 ATSs an estimated one-time burden of up to
10 hours each, 769 resulting in an estimated one-time paperwork cost for each of those 15 ATSs of
$3,484.00 and an aggregate estimated hour burden of 150 hours at an estimated cost of
$52,260.00. 770
In addition to the implementation costs mentioned above, there are also expected ongoing
costs for NMS Stock ATSs to comply with the proposed amendments to Rule 3a1-1(a) and
Regulation ATS. For instance, NMS Stock ATSs would incur ongoing costs associated with
amending their Forms ATS-N prior to material changes in their operations, or to correct any
information that has become inaccurate. Regardless of the reason for filing a Form ATS-N
Amendment, the Commission preliminarily estimates for the purposes of the PRA that it could
take an NMS Stock ATS approximately 28.5 hours annually 771 to prepare and file its Form ATSN Amendments at an estimated annual cost of $8,352.00.772 This would result in an estimated
aggregate ongoing hour burden for all NMS Stock ATSs to amend their Forms ATS-N and
comply with proposed Rules 301(b)(2)(viii) and 304 of Regulation ATS of 1,311 hours at an
estimated cost of $384,192.00 annually. 773
768

See supra Section IX.

769

See supra notes 583-585.

770

(Attorney at $380 x 9 hours) + (Compliance Clerk at $64 x 1 hour) = $3,484.00.
$3,484.00 x 15 ATSs = $52,260.00.

771

See supra notes 644-651 and accompanying text. As explained above, the Commission
preliminarily estimates that each NMS Stock ATS would file 3 Form ATS-N
Amendments per year, and the hourly burden per amendment would be 9.5 hours.

772

(Attorney at $380 x 16.5 hours) + (Compliance Manager at $283 x 6 hours) +
(Compliance Clerk at $64 x 6 hours) = $8,352.00.

773

28.5 hours x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 1,311 hours. $8,352.00 x 46 NMS Stock ATSs =
$384,192.00.

497

Furthermore, the proposed amendments to Rules 301(b)(10) and 303(a)(1)(v) relating to
written safeguards and written procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information
would impose ongoing costs for all ATSs. For the purposes of the PRA, the Commission
preliminarily estimates it could take approximately 4 hours annually for each ATS to update and
maintain these safeguards and procedures, 774 resulting in an estimated annual paperwork cost for
each ATS of $888.00.775 This would result in an estimated aggregate ongoing hour burden for
all ATSs to maintain and update their safeguards and procedures pursuant to proposed Rules
301(b)(10) and 303(a)(1)(v) of 336 hours at an estimated cost of $74,592.00 annually. 776
Some existing NMS Stock ATSs that also transact in non-NMS stocks might incur
additional costs due to the proposed amendments. As discussed above, 777 pursuant to the
proposed amendments to Regulation ATS, an ATS that effects transactions in both NMS stocks
and non-NMS stocks would be subject to the requirements of Rule 304 with respect to its NMS
stock trading operations and Rule 301(b)(2) with respect to its non-NMS stock trading
operations. Accordingly, NMS Stock ATSs that also transact in non-NMS stocks would incur
additional implementation costs when compared to ATSs that only trade NMS stocks because
the former group would be required to file both Form ATS-N and a revised Form ATS that
removes discussion of those aspects of the ATS related to the trading of NMS stocks. Those
NMS Stock ATSs would also be required to file a pair of Forms ATS-R four times annually. For
774

See supra notes 586-587 and accompanying text.

775

(Attorney at $380 x 2 hours) + (Compliance Clerk at $64 x 2 hours) = $888.00 annual
paperwork cost per ATS.

776

4 annual burden hours x 84 ATSs = 336 annual burden hours. $888.00 annual paperwork
cost per ATS x 84 NMS Stock ATSs = $74,592.00 aggregate annual paperwork cost.

777

See supra Section IV.C.2.

498

the purposes of the PRA, the Commission preliminarily estimates that the aggregate initial
burden for those ATSs to file a Form ATS-N in regard to their NMS stock trading activity and a
current Form ATS in regard to their non-NMS stock trading activity would be 1,774.3 hours 778 at
an aggregate estimated cost of $530,491.50. 779 The Commission also preliminarily estimates
that that the aggregate annual burden to file separate Forms ATS-R for those ATSs that effect
transactions in both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks would be 198 hours 780 at an aggregate
estimated cost of $1,394.781 Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily estimates that these
ATSs that facilitate transactions in both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks would incur an
additional estimated recordkeeping burden of 3 hours annually per ATS, resulting in an
estimated cost of $312.60 per ATS782 and an aggregate estimated hour burden of 33 hours at an
estimated cost of $3,438.60, due to the proposed amendments to Rule 303(a)(2)(ii). 783

778

See supra notes 659-663 and accompanying text.

779

((Attorney for Form ATS at $380 x 13 hours) + (Attorney for Form ATS-N at $380 x
54.8 hours) + (Compliance Manager for Form ATS-N at $283 x 43.5 hours) + (Senior
Systems Analyst for Form ATS-N at $260 x 34.5 hours) + (Senior Marketing Manager
for Form ATS-N at $254 x 1 hour) + (Compliance Clerk for Form ATS at $64 x 7 hours)
+ (Compliance Clerk for Form ATS-N at $64 x 7.5 hours)) x 11 ATSs = $530,491.50
This preliminary aggregate compliance cost estimate includes the estimated costs
associated with completing Part III, Item 2 and Part IV, Items 14 and 15 of proposed
Form ATS-N, but as explained above, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
majority of NMS Stock ATSs would not be required to complete those items of the
proposed form. See supra Section XII.D.2.b.

780

See supra notes 663 and accompanying text.

781

(Attorney at $380 x 3.5 hours) + (Compliance Clerk at $64 x 1 hours) = $1,394.

782

At an average cost per burden hour of $104.20, see Rule 303 PRA Update, supra note
580, 78 FR 43943, the resultant total related cost of compliance for each ATS would be
$312.60 ((3 burden hours) x $104.20 /hour).

783

3 hours x 11 ATSs = 33 burden hours. $312.60 x 11 ATSs = $3,438.60. See supra
Section XII.D.2.b.vi.

499

Currently, ATSs that transact in NMS stocks do not have the ability to access and file the
Form ATS electronically. The Commission proposes that proposed Form ATS-N would be filed
electronically in a structured format and would require an electronic signature. These proposed
amendments to Regulation ATS would require that every NMS Stock ATS have the ability to
file forms electronically with an electronic signature. The Commission’s proposal contemplates
the use of an online filing system, the EFFS. Based on the widespread use and availability of the
Internet, the Commission preliminarily believes that filing Form ATS-N in an electronic format
would be less burdensome and a more efficient filing process than the current paper process for
NMS Stock ATSs and the Commission, as it is likely to be less expensive and cumbersome than
mailing and filing paper forms to the Commission.
To access EFFS, an NMS Stock ATS would need to submit to the Commission an EAUA
to register each individual at the NMS Stock ATS who will access the EFFS system on behalf of
the NMS Stock ATS. The Commission is including in its estimates the burden for completing
the EAUA for each individual at an NMS Stock ATS that will request access to EFFS. 784 For
the purposes of the PRA, the Commission preliminarily estimates that initially, on average, two
individuals at each NMS Stock ATS will request access to EFFS through the EAUA, and each
EAUA would require 0.15 hours to complete and submit. 785 Therefore, each NMS Stock ATS
would require 0.3 hours to complete the requisite EAUAs 786 at a cost of $114.00, 787 and the

784

For the purpose of completeness, the Commission has also included the initial estimated
burden and costs related to completing the EAUA in its burden and cost estimates for the
initial ATS-N filings by NMS Stock ATSs. See supra note 643.

785

See supra note 665 and accompanying text.

786

0.15 hours per EAUA x 2 individuals = 0.3 burden hours per NMS Stock ATS. These
preliminary estimates are based on the Commission and its staff’s experience with EFFS

500

aggregate initial burden would be approximately 13.8 hours for all NMS Stock ATSs 788 at a cost
of $5,244.00. 789 The Commission also preliminarily estimates that annually, on average, one
individual at each NMS Stock ATS will request access to EFFS through the EAUA. 790
Therefore, the ongoing burden to complete the EAUA would be 0.15 hours annually for each
NMS Stock ATS 791 at a cost of $57.00, 792 and the aggregate ongoing burden would be
approximately 6.9 hours for all NMS Stock ATSs 793 at a cost of $2,622.00. 794
In addition, the Commission preliminarily estimates that each NMS Stock ATS will
designate two individuals to sign Form ATS-N each year. An individual signing a Form ATS-N
must obtain a digital ID, at the cost of approximately $25.00 each year. Therefore, each NMS
Stock ATS would require approximately $50.00 annually to obtain digital IDs for the individuals

and EAUAs pursuant to Rule 19b-4 under the Exchange Act. The 0.3 hours represents
the time spent by two attorneys. The Commission believes it is appropriate to estimate
that, on average, each NMS Stock ATS will submit two EAUAs initially.
787

Attorney at $380 x 0.3 hours per EAUA = $114.00.

788

0.30 hours per EAUA x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 13.8 burden hours.

789

$114 cost per NMS Stock ATS x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = $5,244.00.

790

The Commission estimates that annually, on average, one individual at each NMS Stock
ATS will request access to EFFS through EAUA to account for the possibility that an
individual who previously had access to EFFS may no longer be designated as needing
such access.

791

0.15 hours per EAUA x 1 individual = 0.15 hours.

792

Attorney at $380 x 0.15 hours per EAUA = $57.00.

793

0.15 hours x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 6.9 hours.

794

$57 cost per NMS Stock ATS x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = $2,622.00.

501

with access to EFFS for purposes of signing Form ATS-N, 795 and the aggregate initial burden
would be approximately $2,300.00 for all NMS Stock ATSs.796
The Commission also preliminarily estimates that NMS Stock ATSs would incur a onetime cost to make public via posting on their websites a direct URL hyperlink to the
Commission’s website that contains their Form ATS-N filings. 797 For the purposes of the PRA,
the Commission preliminarily estimates that this initial, one-time burden would be approximately 2
hours per NMS Stock ATS at an estimated cost of $520.00, 798 and the aggregate estimated burden
for all NMS Stock ATSs would be approximately 92 hours 799 at an estimated cost of $23,920.00.800
2.

Costs and Benefits of Public Disclosures of Proposed Form ATS-N

The Commission is proposing Rule 304(b) to mandate greater public disclosure of NMS
Stock ATS operations by making Form ATS-N and Form ATS-N Amendments publicly
available on the Commission’s website, requiring each NMS Stock ATS that has a website to
post a direct URL hyperlink to the Commission’s website that contains the documents
enumerated in proposed Rule 304(b)(2), and providing for the posting of Commission orders
related to the effectiveness of Form ATS-N on the Commission’s website. 801 The Commission’s
proposal to require such public disclosure is designed, in part, to increase the operational
transparency requirements of NMS Stock ATSs in order to bring those requirements more in line
795

$25 per digital ID x 2 individuals = $50.00 per NMS Stock ATS.

796

$50 cost per NMS Stock ATS x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = $2,300.

797

See supra Section XII.D.2.b.v.

798

Senior Systems Analyst at $260 x 2 hours = $520.00.

799

2 hours per NMS Stock ATS x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = 92 burden hours.

800

$520 per NMS Stock ATS x 46 NMS Stock ATSs = $23,920.00.

801

See supra Section IV.D.

502

with the operational transparency requirements of national securities exchanges. 802 The
Commission preliminarily believes the proposal should assist market participants in evaluating
and choosing the NMS Stock ATSs to which they may route orders or become a subscriber due
to the proposed enhanced disclosure requirements.
As mentioned above, the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS would make Form
ATS-N publicly available, thereby improving the information available to market participants
and making that information consistent. The Commission is proposing to amend Regulation
ATS to require NMS Stock ATSs to file proposed Form ATS-N in lieu of Form ATS. 803
Furthermore, the Commission is proposing to require NMS Stock ATSs to disclose on Form
ATS-N detailed information about the activities of the broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock
ATS and the broker-dealer operator’s affiliates, including: the operation of non-ATS trading
centers and other NMS Stock ATSs; products and services offered to subscribers; arrangements
with unaffiliated trading centers; trading activities on the NMS Stock ATS by the broker-dealer
operator or any of its affiliates; a SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s) used to send
or receive orders or other trading interest to or from the ATS; personnel and third parties used to
operate the NMS Stock ATS; differences in the availability of services, functionalities, or
procedures between the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates and subscribers to the NMS Stock
ATS; and safeguards and procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information.
Proposed Form ATS-N would also require NMS Stock ATSs to provide detailed information

802

See id.

803

As discussed above, to the extent an ATS trades both NMS stocks and non-NMS stocks,
it would be required to file both a Form ATS and a Form ATS-N. See supra Section
IV.C.2.

503

about the manner of operations of the ATS, including: subscribers; hours of operation; types of
orders; connectivity, order entry, and co-location procedures; segmentation of order flow and
notice about segmentation; display of order and other trading interest; trading services, including
matching methodologies, order interaction rules, and order handling and execution procedures;
procedures governing suspension of trading and trading during a system disruption or
malfunction; opening, closing, and after-hours procedures; outbound routing services; market
data; fees; trade reporting; clearance and settlement; order display and execution access (if
applicable); fair access (if applicable); and market quality statistics published or provided to one
or more subscribers. The Commission is proposing to make certain Form ATS-N filings
available to the public on the Commission’s website and to require an NMS Stock ATS that has
a website to post on the NMS Stock ATS’s website a direct URL hyperlink to the Commission’s
website that contains the documents enumerated in proposed Rule 304(b)(2).
Despite NMS Stock ATSs’ increasing operational complexities and importance as a
source of liquidity for NMS stocks, the Commission preliminarily believes that many market
participants have limited information about NMS Stock ATSs’ order handling and execution
practices. As noted above, while the current disclosures on Form ATS are “deemed confidential
when filed,” some ATSs voluntarily disclose their Form ATS filings. 804 Accordingly, there is
disparate publicly available information regarding the current operations of NMS Stock ATSs.
Furthermore, even if an NMS Stock ATS publicly discloses its Form ATS, some subscribers of
that ATS may be privy to more detailed information about how their orders are executed, routed
and/or prioritized than other subscribers. Accordingly, the Commission preliminarily believes
804

See supra notes 155-156.

504

that, often, some subscribers are able to obtain a more complete picture of the operations of an
NMS Stock ATS than other subscribers, and as a result, the latter group of subscribers may not
be selecting the venue that most suits their investing or trading objectives. In addition, based on
Commission experience, the confidentiality of Form ATS has not always resulted in NMS Stock
ATSs disclosing significant details regarding their operations, services, and functions.
Therefore, the status quo, as discussed above in Section XIII.B, is characterized by variable
levels of public and confidential disclosure by NMS Stock ATSs, which makes it more difficult
for both market participants to evaluate NMS Stock ATSs as potential trading venues and
regulators to oversee NMS Stock ATSs.
a. Effects on Market Participants’ Trading Decisions
The Commission preliminarily believes that the public disclosure of Form ATS-N would
produce economic benefits for market participants. Specifically, the Commission preliminarily
believes that requiring detailed, public disclosures about the operations of NMS Stock ATSs
would, among other things, better standardize the type of information market participants receive
about those operations. As a result, search costs for market participants would be lower relative
to the baseline, as homogenous disclosure requirements for all NMS Stock ATSs as part of the
proposed amendments to Regulation ATS should facilitate market participants’ comparison of
NMS Stock ATSs when deciding which venue most suits their trading purposes. Accordingly,
the Commission preliminarily believes the enhanced operational transparency resulting from the
public disclosures on Form ATS-N should aid market participants when evaluating potential
trading venues.
The market for NMS stock execution services has also evolved such that national
securities exchanges and NMS Stock ATSs have increasingly become direct competitors.
505

However, as explained above, Form ATS filings continue to be “deemed confidential when
filed,” while national securities exchanges must publicly file proposed rule changes and publicly
disclose their entire rulebooks.805 The Commission preliminarily believes that replacing the
current Form ATS with proposed Form ATS-N and making Form ATS-N public would reduce
the discrepancy in information that different market participants receive about NMS Stock ATSs
relative to the information they receive about national securities exchanges, which would better
enable market participants to compare the stock execution services of NMS Stock ATSs against
those of national securities exchanges. For instance, having information allowing a more
complete comparison between the trading operations of NMS Stock ATSs and national securities
exchanges could reveal to a market participant certain order handling and preferencing
differences that might result in superior or inferior treatment of orders handled by an NMS Stock
ATS. It could also reveal differences in fee structures among subscribers that may result in
costlier or less costly execution on a particular trading platform.
The Commission preliminarily believes that the proposed amendments would
appropriately calibrate the level of transparency between NMS Stock ATSs and national
securities exchanges, fostering even greater competition for order flow of NMS stocks between
those trading platforms. As noted above, the Commission also preliminarily believes that the
proposed enhanced disclosure requirements for NMS Stock ATSs would calibrate the level of
transparency among different NMS Stock ATSs. Moreover, requiring Form ATS-N to be made
public upon being declared effective should lead to additional scrutiny of NMS Stock ATSs by
market participants. Therefore, the Commission preliminarily believes that the proposal could
805

See supra notes 155-162 and accompanying text.

506

foster even greater competition for order flow of NMS stocks among NMS Stock ATSs and
between NMS Stock ATSs and national securities exchanges, which could lead to lower spreads
and thereby foster greater capital formation and increased market liquidity relative to the
baseline. This in turn could enhance execution quality and lower information opaqueness
surrounding an NMS Stock ATS’s operations.
The Commission also preliminarily believes that the proposed requirement for NMS
Stock ATSs to disclose whether and how they segment their order flow, any criteria used to
assign order flow, and their fee structures should provide market participants with a better
understanding of the operating environment for NMS Stock ATSs. Search costs to identify
which NMS Stock ATSs better serve a market participant’s trading interests should be reduced
relative to the baseline, as market participants may be more able to predict how their orders will
be executed. Broker-dealers might also make better routing decisions for their particular
interests, and the interests of their customers, which might therefore lead to better execution
quality. Also, the proposed enhanced disclosure requirements for NMS Stock ATSs could better
enable market participants to review trading decisions made by their broker-dealers. This in turn
could lower the level of uncertainty that was present in the baseline regarding how orders would
be executed on NMS Stock ATSs. As such, the Commission preliminarily believes that the
proposed amendments to Regulation ATS could help market participants understand how their
orders will be executed on an NMS Stock ATS and evaluate any potential conflicts of interest
involving the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates when handling such orders.
At the same time, the proposed enhanced disclosure requirements for NMS Stock ATSs
could benefit certain ATSs or national securities exchanges. For example, market participants
would be aware of which NMS Stock ATSs may offer better execution services or better
507

protection against the dissemination of their non-public trading information, and as a result, these
ATSs might attract even more order flow. By attracting greater order flow, NMS Stock ATSs
might, in turn, provide benefits to market participants by offering them a trading platform that is
more liquid and, possibly, has lower trading costs.
In the adopting release for Regulation ATS, the Commission explained that it believed
that the regulatory framework established by Regulation ATS would encourage innovation and
encourage the growing role of technology in the securities markets. 806 Since the establishment
of Regulation ATS, the market for order execution services for trading NMS stocks –
particularly on ATSs – has flourished. The number of ATSs that trade NMS stocks has
increased substantially since the inception of Regulation ATS, and as of the end of the second
quarter of 2015, trading volume of NMS stocks on ATSs accounted for 15% of total share
volume. 807 As it is expected to calibrate the level of transparency between NMS Stock ATSs
and national securities exchanges, the proposal may foster greater competition for order flow of
NMS stocks between these trading platforms. This greater competition for order flow may in
turn incentivize NMS Stock ATSs to innovate – particularly in terms of their technology – so
that they can attract more trading volume to their venue.
The proposed requirement under Part IV, Item 16 of proposed Form ATS-N to explain
and provide aggregate platform-wide order flow and execution statistics regarding the NMS
Stock ATS, which are not otherwise required disclosures under Exchange Act Rule 605 of
Regulation NMS but still published or otherwise provided to one or more subscribers by the

806

See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70910.

807

See supra Section III.A.

508

NMS Stock ATS, could have several potential economic effects. The economic effects would
depend not only on the extent to which ATSs currently provide or publish such information and
the content of the information which the Commission currently does not have (such as what
order flow and execution statistics NMS Stock ATSs produce, how they are calculated and
whether they are standardized across ATSs, and which subscribers currently receive these
statistics), 808 but also on how NMS Stock ATSs choose to comply with the proposed
amendments. Some NMS Stock ATSs may not currently disclose market quality statistics not
otherwise required under Exchange Act Rule 605, and these ATSs would not incur costs to
comply with the proposed disclosure requirements under Part IV, Item 16 of proposed Form
ATS-N; therefore, the proposed disclosure requirements would provide no benefits to market
participants in such cases. Additionally, there may be some NMS Stock ATSs that currently
provide these aggregate platform-wide order flow and execution statistics not just to their
subscribers, but also to the broader public. In such cases, the proposed disclosure requirements
under Part IV, Item 16 of proposed Form ATS-N may not provide any additional benefit to
market participants because the information required under Item 16 would already be publicly
available.
Furthermore, NMS Stock ATSs that currently provide these aggregate platform-wide
order flow and execution statistics to one or more subscribers could continue to provide its
subscribers with these market quality statistics, in which case, under the proposal, the NMS
Stock ATS would publicly disclose these statistics and how they are calculated in proposed Form
ATS-N. Another possibility is that these NMS Stock ATSs may choose to stop providing market
808

See supra Section XIII.B.3.

509

quality statistics to subscribers so as not to have to publicly disclose information about those
statistics and/or the statistics themselves in Form ATS-N. To the extent that an NMS Stock ATS
continues to provide aggregate platform-wide order flow and execution statistics to subscribers
only, it would publicly disclose and describe how those statistics are calculated in Form ATS-N,
and all market participants, not just subscribers would have access to the information, which the
Commission preliminarily believes would improve the opportunity for more market participants
to benefit from this information. In addition, to the extent that subscribers that receive those
market quality statistics currently do not know how the NMS Stock ATS calculates the market
quality statistics, the proposal would help these subscribers better understand the statistics, and
such information may be useful when evaluating an NMS Stock ATS as a possible venue to
which to route orders in order to accomplish their investing or trading objectives.
However, NMS Stock ATSs that choose to publicly disclose aggregate platform-wide
order flow and execution statistics regarding the NMS Stock ATS, which are not otherwise
required disclosures under Exchange Act Rule 605 of Regulation NMS but still published or
otherwise provided to one or more subscribers by the NMS Stock ATS would incur costs to do
so. Therefore, some NMS Stock ATSs may choose to comply with the proposal by ceasing to
disclose these market quality statistics to subscribers. As a result, the proposal could reduce
transparency to the detriment of the subscribers who currently benefit from the receipt of certain
market quality statistics regarding an NMS Stock ATS, which could in turn result in spill-over
effects on the market. Furthermore, the decision of whether to continue to disclose such
statistics could depend, in part, on how favorable the statistics make the ATS appear. As such, if
some NMS Stock ATSs choose to stop disclosing order flow and execution statistics due to the
proposed requirements of Item 16 while others decide to make those statistics public through
510

their Form ATS-N filings, market participants may perceive the latter group of NMS Stock ATSs
as having better execution quality, and these trading venues may therefore benefit by attracting
even more order flow as a result of such perceptions.
As most NMS Stock ATSs are operated by broker-dealers that also engage in other
brokerage and dealing activities, a broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS, or its affiliates,
may have business interests that compete with the ATS’s subscribers, or customers of its
subscribers, which in turn may give rise to potential conflicts of interest. 809 For instance, multiservice broker-dealers may execute orders in NMS stocks internally on non-ATS trading centers
by trading as principal against such orders, or by crossing orders as agent in a riskless principal
capacity. The Commission preliminarily expects that the proposal could discourage brokerdealer operators from trading internally as principal in their NMS Stock ATS under
circumstances where such might raise conflict of interest concerns because those operations
would be subject to public scrutiny by market participants seeking to trade on the ATS.
In addition to the possible conflicts of interest that may arise from internalization, brokerdealer operators that control and operate multiple NMS Stock ATSs may also face conflicts of
interest. This is because such broker-dealers might operate competing trading venues for the
execution of orders in NMS stocks without having fully separated the functions of these
competing trading centers. As a result of these overlapping functionalities, broker-dealers
operating multiple NMS Stock ATSs may provide subscribers of one ATS – which could include
business units of the broker-dealer or its affiliates – with access to services or information about
the other ATS that it does not provide to other subscribers. The Commission preliminarily
809

The Commission notes that, based on information provided on Form ATS, a small
number of ATSs solely limit their broker-dealer business to the operation of an ATS.

511

believes that the proposed enhanced disclosure requirements should provide market participants
with information to better evaluate potential conflicts of interest when making trading decisions;
any resultant change in order flow to an NMS Stock ATS with such potential conflicts might
cause that ATS to alter its operations to reduce such conflicts.
b. Structuring of Proposed Form ATS-N
The Commission is proposing that proposed Form ATS-N be filed electronically through
the EFFS system in a structured data format. The Commission is proposing to make public on
the Commission’s website, among other things, an effective Form ATS-N , and each properly
filed Form ATS-N Amendment upon filing with the Commission. The Commission would post
the Form ATS-N or Form ATS-N Amendment in the same format that the Commission received
the data.
The Commission preliminarily believes that by having NMS Stock ATSs file the
proposed Form ATS-N in a structured data format, the information’s usability for market
participants would be enhanced. Once the data is structured, it is not only human-readable, but
also becomes machine-readable such that market participants could download the information
directly into databases and analyze it using various software. With structured data, what was
static, text-based information that had to be manually and individually reviewed, can be searched
and analyzed, facilitating the comparison and aggregation across NMS Stock ATSs.
The Commission understands that there are varying costs associated with varying degrees
of structuring. The Commission preliminarily believes that its proposed structuring of proposed
Form ATS-N has minimal costs and enhanced benefits for market participants’ use of proposed
Form ATS-N information. The Commission is proposing that Parts I (Name) and II (BrokerDealer Operator Registration and Contact Information) of proposed Form ATS-N would be
512

provided as fillable forms on the Commission’s EFFS system. The Commission is proposing
that Part III (Activities of the Broker-Dealer Operator and Affiliates) of proposed Form ATS-N
would be filed in a structured format whereby the filer would provide checkbox responses to
certain questions and narrative responses that are block-text tagged by Item. The Commission is
proposing that Part IV (The NMS Stock ATS Manner of Operations) of proposed Form ATS-N
would also be filed in a structured format in that the filer would block-text tag narrative
responses by Item. The Commission is proposing that Part V (Contact Information, Signature
Block, and Consent to Service) of proposed Form ATS-N would be provided as fillable forms on
the Commission’s EFFS system. The Commission also preliminarily believes that requiring
NMS Stock ATSs to file proposed Form ATS-N in a structured format could allow market
participants to avoid additional costs associated with third party sources who might otherwise
extract and structure all the narrative disclosures, and then charge for access to that structured
data. The Commission notes that the structuring of Form ATS-N can be in a variety of manners.
For example, some or all of the information provided on Form ATS-N could be structured
according to a particular standard that already exists, or a new taxonomy that the Commission
creates, or as a single machine-readable PDF. The Commission seeks comment on the manner in
which proposed Form ATS-N could be structured to enable the Commission and market
participants to better collect and analyze the data.
c. Effects on Entry and Exit of NMS Stock ATSs
From an NMS Stock ATS’s perspective, the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS
may beget uncertainty as to whether its proposed Form ATS-N will be deemed effective or
ineffective. Greater uncertainty surrounding this proposed process may act as a deterrent for
potential ATSs wishing to effect transactions in NMS stocks. The disclosures required by
513

proposed Form ATS-N would be more comprehensive and require significantly more detail than
those required on current Form ATS, which in turn could delay the start of operations for new
NMS Stock ATSs. Therefore, the proposed amendments could raise the entry barrier for new
entrants to the market for NMS stock execution services.
The Commission is proposing that a legacy NMS Stock ATS would be able to continue
its operations pursuant to a previously filed initial operation report on Form ATS pending the
Commission’s review of its initial Form ATS-N. However, if after notice and opportunity for
hearing, the Commission declares the Form ATS-N filed by a legacy NMS Stock ATS
ineffective, the ATS would be required to cease operations. The NMS Stock ATS would then
have the opportunity to address deficiencies in the previously filed form by filing a new Form
ATS-N. 810 The Commission is also proposing to make Form ATS-N Amendments public upon
filing and also to make the public aware of which Form ATS-N Amendments filed by NMS
Stock ATSs posted on the Commission’s website are pending Commission review and could still
be declared ineffective. The Commission preliminarily believes that this process would provide
immediate transparency to market participants about an NMS Stock ATS’s current operations
while also notifying market participants that the disclosures in a filed Form ATS-N Amendment
are still subject to Commission review. If the Commission declares a Form ATS-N Amendment
ineffective, the NMS Stock ATS shall be prohibited from operating pursuant to the ineffective
Form ATS-N Amendment. The NMS Stock ATS could, however, continue to operate pursuant
to a Form ATS-N that was previously declared effective. 811 Given the uncertainty that may
810

See supra Section IV.C.

811

Nothing would preclude the NMS Stock ATS from later submitting a new or revised
Form ATS-N Amendment for consideration by the Commission.

514

surround the process to declare Form ATS-N effective or ineffective or Form ATS-N
Amendments ineffective, coupled with the number and complexity of the new disclosures that
would be required under proposed Form ATS-N, some broker-dealer operators of legacy NMS
Stock ATSs may find that the costs of compliance with this proposal outweigh the benefits of
continuing to operate their NMS Stock ATS, particularly if the operation of the ATS does not
constitute a significant source of profit for a broker-dealer operator. As such, the NMS Stock
ATS may exit the market.
As explained above, NMS Stock ATSs would incur both implementation and ongoing
costs to meet the regulatory requirements under proposed Rule 304. In particular, the proposed
rules would require an NMS Stock ATS to file amendments on proposed Form ATS-N to notice
a material change to its operations at least 30 days prior to implementing that material change.
Under the proposal, if the Commission declares a material amendment ineffective after this
advance notice period has expired, the NMS Stock ATS would be required to unwind the
material change if it has already been implemented on the ATS or be precluded from proceeding
to implement the change if it was not already implemented. This uncertainty regarding an NMS
Stock ATS’s ability to implement material changes may also result in some NMS Stock ATSs
exiting the market.
Once an NMS Stock ATS’s initial Form ATS-N is declared effective by the Commission,
the information disclosed on Form ATS-N would be made available to the broader investing
public. Proposed Form ATS-N Amendments would be made public upon filing, and in the case
the amendments are not declared ineffective by the Commission, the Commission would no

515

longer indicate that the Form ATS-N Amendment is under Commission review. 812 Examples of
the operational information that could be disclosed to a given NMS Stock ATS’s competitors and
the public on proposed Form ATS-N would include: characteristics and use of order types
(including indications of interest and conditional orders); order handling and priority distinctions
among types of orders and/or subscribers; order entry and display procedures; the allocation and
matching of orders, quotes, indications of interest and conditional orders; execution and trade
reporting procedures, and aggregate platform-wide market quality statistics regarding the NMS
Stock ATS that the NMS Stock ATS currently only provides to subscribers.
While the information elicited on proposed Form ATS-N would be similar to the
information that national securities exchanges are required to publicly disclose, the Commission
preliminarily believes that the disclosure of this previously non-public information could have
some impact on the direction of order flow in the market. For instance, to the extent that an
NMS Stock ATS’s competitive advantage in the market is driven by its matching methodology,
other operational characteristics that are currently confidential, or the non-public disclosure of
certain aggregate platform-wide market quality statistics provided to subscribers, the disclosure
of this information could result in other NMS Stock ATSs implementing similar methodologies,
which might cause market participants to direct more order flow to those other NMS Stock
ATSs. In addition, some order flow may be directed away from NMS Stock ATSs and towards
national securities exchanges or broker-dealers that operate non-ATS trading centers if market
participants discover that their orders could receive lower execution quality on an NMS Stock
ATS relative to these other trading centers. As such, the proposal may result in lower revenues
812

See supra Section IV.D. See also proposed Rule 304(b)(2).

516

for some NMS Stock ATSs, and those ATSs may then find it unprofitable to stay in the market.
The Commission preliminarily believes that fewer trading venues in the market will affect
competition between existing NMS Stock ATSs and national securities exchanges as well as
among existing NMS Stock ATSs, which would in turn affect market participants.
Not only could an NMS Stock ATS’s competitive advantage be driven by its current
matching methodology or other operational characteristics, it could also be driven by the NMS
Stock ATS’s ability to improve these methodologies through technological innovation or
enhancements. Under the proposal, the Commission preliminarily believes that the disclosure of
an NMS Stock ATS’s innovations in proposed Form ATS-N Amendments could potentially
result in certain NMS Stock ATSs losing their technological advantage. If NMS Stock ATSs
cannot innovate fast enough to regain their competitive advantage in the market, orders may also
flow away from those NMS Stock ATSs, and as a result, these trading venues may choose to exit
the market if operating the ATS becomes unprofitable for the broker-dealer operator.
Both large and small NMS Stock ATSs may be affected by the detailed disclosures
required under proposed Rule 304 and Form ATS-N, though, the proposal may affect the ability
of each type of ATS to stay in the market differently. As noted above, to the extent that an
ATS’s dominance in the market – in terms of being able to attract substantial NMS stock trading
volume – is driven by its matching methodology or other operational characteristics that are
currently confidential, the public disclosure of this information may result in lower revenue for
the NMS Stock ATS. If this is the case for a small NMS Stock ATS, or a large ATS without a
substantial profit margin, the broker-dealer operator may no longer view the ATS as being
profitable and may potentially exit the market altogether. Alternatively, if this is the case for a
large NMS Stock ATS or a smaller NMS Stock ATS with large profit margins, while the NMS
517

Stock ATS may not exit the market, such an ATS may need to engage in costly research in order
to develop new matching methodologies to stay profitable in the market. Further, if revenue and
earnings margins for operating an NMS Stock ATS are below the average for the entire market,
the NMS Stock ATS risks being squeezed out by its competitors and would potentially exit the
market. 813 The result of this may be that there would be fewer trading venues in the market for
NMS stock execution services. This could affect the competition between existing NMS Stock
ATSs and national securities exchanges as well as among existing NMS Stock ATSs, which
would in turn affect market participants. The Commission notes, however, that many smaller
NMS Stock ATSs may not engage in other brokerage or dealing activities in addition to the
operation of their NMS Stock ATS. Therefore, certain aspects of proposed Form ATS-N (such
as several items of Part III) may not be applicable to smaller NMS Stock ATSs, which would
reduce the burdens and mitigate the effects of the proposed disclosure requirements on these
smaller NMS Stock ATSs.
The Commission expects that the implementation and ongoing costs associated with
filing proposed Form ATS-N could also affect the nature of competition. As Table 1 shows,
there is a significant degree of difference in the size of NMS Stock ATSs, when measured by
dollar or share volume. If the costs associated with filing proposed Form ATS-N become
disproportionately greater for smaller volume NMS Stock ATSs, some of these legacy NMS
Stock ATSs might cease operations, and exit the market for NMS stock execution services. As
explained above, based on analysis for purposes of the PRA, the Commission has calculated
preliminary estimates of the implementation and ongoing costs for the proposed amendments to
813

See Singhvi, Surrendra S. and Harsha B. Desai, 1971, “An Empirical Analysis of the
Quality of Corporate Financial Disclosure,” Accounting Review 46, 129–138.

518

Regulation ATS. The Commission preliminarily believes that the estimated implementation cost
is a fixed cost that would be roughly similar across NMS Stock ATSs, regardless of their dollar
volume size; this implies that implementation costs will represent a larger fraction of revenue
generated on a small NMS Stock ATS relative to that percentage on a large NMS Stock ATS,
which could cause some smaller NMS Stock ATSs to exit the market. However, it could be the
case that if the NMS Stock ATSs that decide to exit due to this fixed implementation cost only
transact small dollar (or share) volume, the Commission may not expect to see a large impact on
the overall competitive structure of the NMS Stock ATSs that would remain in the market. More
so, the order flow that was being traded on these small NMS Stock ATSs might in fact be
absorbed and redistributed amongst these larger surviving NMS Stock ATSs.
Another effect that the proposal could have on competition is that the greater disclosure
requirements of NMS Stock ATSs, particular the disclosures related to the other business
activities of the broker-dealer operator and its affiliates, may influence a broker-dealer operator’s
decisions with respect to its operations of the NMS Stock ATS. Given the proposed disclosure
requirements regarding the activities of broker-dealer operators and their affiliates, a multiservice broker-dealer operator of an NMS Stock ATS may cease operating its NMS Stock ATS
and send its order flow, which would have gone to the broker-dealer operator’s NMS Stock ATS,
to other trading centers. For example, a multi-service broker-dealer operator could internalize
the order flow that it would typically send to its ATS or send that order flow to a broker-dealer
that, does not operate an NMS Stock ATS, to internalize. Alternatively, the broker-dealer
operator might send the order flow to a non-affiliated NMS Stock ATS that is operated by a nonmulti-service broker-dealer, who would likely not encounter the same potential conflicts of

519

interest as a multi-service broker-dealer that operates an NMS Stock ATS. Finally, the brokerdealer operator could also send its order flow to national securities exchanges for execution.
Overall, the Commission preliminarily believes that the possible exit of NMS Stock
ATSs from the market, or the reduced entry of new NMS Stock ATSs, due to the requirements
under proposed Rule 304 and Form ATS-N might be potentially harmful to competition in the
market for NMS stock execution services. The potential exit by existing NMS Stock ATSs and
the reduced entry into the market by prospective NMS Stock ATSs may impact market
participants by reducing the number of NMS stock trading venues and thus, reducing a market
participant’s opportunities to minimize its trading costs by sending orders to different trading
platforms. As such, the possible exit of NMS Stock ATSs from the market for NMS stock
execution services and lower rate of entry for new NMS Stock ATSs may result in greater costs
relative to the baseline cost savings that NMS Stock ATSs currently afford market
participants. 814 The Commission, however, is unable to predict whether legacy NMS Stock
ATSs will exit the market and therefore, cannot quantify the ultimate effect that this will have on
competition.
d. Effects on Trading Costs, Price Discovery and Market Efficiency
As discussed above, the proposed heightened disclosure requirements for NMS Stock
ATSs might cause some NMS Stock ATSs to cease operations, which could result in reduced
competition among and between NMS Stock ATSs. If it is the case that the NMS Stock ATSs
that face the highest cost of disclosure are the ones that have worse execution quality, the
surviving NMS Stock ATSs might enhance execution quality and may allow market participants

814

See supra Section XIII.B.7.

520

to transact at lower prices. If order flow is directed towards these surviving NMS Stock ATSs
after the trading venues that face the highest cost of disclosure cease operations, then a smaller
number of surviving trading venues might mean that there would be a higher likelihood that the
orders of buyers and sellers on an NMS Stock ATS would interact and execute, which could
improve liquidity. Even if some of the order flow from NMS Stock ATSs that cease operations
does not migrate to the surviving NMS Stock ATSs, but migrates towards national securities
exchanges, greater order interaction between buyers and sellers on a national securities exchange
might be fostered, thereby improving price discovery. Moreover, because some NMS Stock
ATSs operate as crossing networks and derive their prices from national securities exchanges,
greater price discovery on a national securities exchange could spill over to affect the execution
prices on the surviving NMS Stock ATSs and thereby potentially reduce market participants’
trading costs. Additionally, given the fairly standardized set of information that would be
publicly disclosed on proposed Form ATS-N and that trading in the market by NMS Stock ATSs
may in fact be concentrated on fewer NMS Stock ATSs as a result of this proposal, market
participants may process, and react more quickly to, information pertaining to changes in an
NMS Stock ATS’s operations when evaluating potential trading venues. As such, the proposed
amendments to Regulation ATS might improve market efficiency.
Alternatively, heightened disclosure requirements pertaining to the public disclosure of
proposed Form ATS-N could have a contrary effect, by increasing market participants’ trading
costs relative to the baseline. Institutional investors may use NMS Stock ATSs in an attempt to
minimize the price impact of their trades. Even though the size of the average order on NMS
Stock ATSs has been shown to be roughly equivalent to that on national securities exchanges,

521

smaller orders on NMS Stock ATSs can be the result of shredding larger orders. 815 Preventing
information regarding those orders from becoming public can minimize adverse price moves that
may occur when proprietary traders learn that there may be large buyers or sellers in the market.
Thus, NMS Stock ATSs represent a tool for institutional investors to help control information
leakage. If some NMS Stock ATSs exit the market as a result of the proposed amendments,
there could be a reduction in the number of trading platforms that allow institutional investors to
control their price impact costs. Institutional investors, who would have traded on these NMS
Stock ATSs if they did not exit the market, may now have to trade on other trading venues, such
as other NMS Stock ATSs or national securities exchanges. If institutional investors execute
their orders on a national securities exchange, they may have to absorb price impact costs,
because national securities exchanges may not offer a means for reducing these costs. Insofar
that an NMS Stock ATS’s competitive advantage is driven by its matching methodology or other
operational characteristics that are currently confidential, the Commission understands such
disclosure could impact this competitive advantage. However, the Commission does not know
the extent to which the proposal would affect an NMS Stock ATS’s decision to continue
operations or exit the market, and, therefore, cannot estimate the number of ATSs that may exit.
Furthermore, the Commission does not have information in order for it to make reasonable
assumptions about the fraction of displaced volume – from NMS Stock ATSs that would cease
operations – that would be directed towards national securities exchanges, NMS Stock ATSs, or
non-ATS OTC trading centers. Therefore, the Commission cannot estimate the impact that the
proposal would have on an NMS Stock ATS’s price impact costs.
815

See Tuttle: ATS Trading in NMS Stocks, supra note 126.

522

The price impact cost institutional investors face on a national securities exchange is
related to the depth of the market, and the depth of the market is often related to the market
capitalization of a stock and its liquidity. 816 For instance, if an institutional investor were to
trade a large capitalization stock on a national securities exchange as opposed to on an NMS
Stock ATS, given that the large capitalization stock might be more liquid than a small
capitalization stock, and thereby have greater market depth outside the inside quote, the
institutional investor may suffer little difference in price impact costs by executing the order on a
national securities exchange. On the other hand, a small capitalization, low priced stock might
have much lower market depth outside the inside quote, and, therefore, the difference in price
impact costs for executing orders of these stocks on an exchange might be substantial. 817
Furthermore, because NMS Stock ATSs trade larger dollar volume in small capitalization, low
priced stocks, the price impact costs for institutional investors that trade in such stocks may in
fact be severe if many NMS Stock ATSs decided to exit the market. 818 As mentioned above,
while the Commission is unable to estimate the number of NMS Stock ATSs that may
potentially exit the market, the Commission also does not know whether firms will send their
small capitalization stock orders to other surviving NMS Stock ATSs, national securities

816

A deep market is one in which larger orders do not have a much greater impact on prices
than smaller orders. See Foucault, Pagano and Roell, 2013, “Market Liquidity,” Oxford
University Press.

817

See Collver, Charles, 2014, “A Characterization of Market Quality for Small
Capitalization US Equities,” SEC Division of Trading and Markets Working Paper,
http://www.sec.gov/marketstructure/research/small_cap_liquidity.pdf.

818

The Commission notes that it is difficult to quantify the increase in price impact costs
faced by institutional traders because it is unclear how many NMS Stock ATSs may
cease operations, and more so, it is unclear whether these institutional traders who would
like to execute large orders will route them to other ATSs that may continue to operate.

523

exchanges, or non-ATS trading centers. Therefore, the Commission cannot estimate what price
market participants would receive for the small capitalization stock orders and thus, the
Commission cannot estimate the price impact costs associated with these small capitalization
stock orders.
3.

Written Safeguards and Written Procedures to Protect Subscribers’
Confidential Trading Information, and Proposed Recordkeeping
Requirements

The Commission is also proposing to amend existing Rules 301(b)(10) 819 and
303(a)(1)820 of Regulation ATS to require all ATSs to adopt and preserve written safeguards and
written procedures to protect subscribers’ confidential trading information, as well as written
oversight procedures to ensure those safeguards and procedures are followed. As explained
above, the Commission preliminarily believes that these proposed amendments should both
strengthen the effectiveness of ATS’ safeguards and procedures and improve those ATSs’ ability
to implement and monitor the adequacy of, and the ATSs’ compliance with, their safeguards and
procedures.821 Furthermore, the Commission preliminarily believes that requiring ATSs to adopt
written safeguards and written procedures will benefit the Commission by helping it better
understand, monitor, and evaluate how each ATS protects subscribers’ confidential trading
information from unauthorized disclosure and access. 822 The Commission also expects that this
proposed requirement will help oversight by the SRO of which the NMS Stock ATS’s brokerdealer operator is a member.
819

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(10).

820

See 17 CFR 242.303(a).

821

See supra Section IX.

822

See id.

524

Under Rule 301(b)(10), all ATSs must establish adequate safeguards and procedures to
protect subscribers’ confidential trading information and adequate oversight procedures to ensure
that the safeguards and procedures established to protect such trading information are followed.
However, neither Rule 301(b)(10) nor the recordkeeping requirements under Rule 303(a)(1) of
Regulation ATS require that an ATS have and preserve those safeguards and procedures in
writing. As explained above, the Commission preliminarily believes that the proposal to require
written safeguards and written procedures would better enable ATSs – in particular, those ATSs
that do not currently maintain written safeguards and procedures – to protect confidential
subscriber trading information and implement and monitor the adequacy of, and the ATS’s
compliance with, its safeguards and procedures.823
The Commission is also proposing to amend the recordkeeping rules relevant to the
proposed amendments to Rule 301 and proposed Rule 304. The Commission is proposing that
NMS Stock ATSs shall preserve Form ATS-N, Form ATS-N Amendments, and a Form ATS-N
notice of cessation for the life of the enterprise and any successor enterprise pursuant to Rule
303(a)(2)824 of Regulation ATS.825 The Commission is also proposing to amend Rule
303(a)(1)826 so that ATSs must preserve for a period of not less than three years, the first two in
an easily accessible place, the written safeguards and procedures that would be required under
the proposed amendments to Rule 301(b)(10). The Commission understands that these proposed
823

See id.

824

See 17 CFR 242.303(a)(2).

825

The Commission notes that an NMS Stock ATS that had previously made filings on
Form ATS would be required to preserve those filings for the life of the enterprise, as
well as filings made going forward on Form ATS-N.

826

See 17 CFR 242.303(a)(1).

525

amendments regarding recordkeeping requirements may require NMS Stock ATSs to set up
systems and procedures, and these are expected to account for a portion of the implementation
costs under this proposal. 827
D. Alternatives
1.

Require NMS Stock ATSs to Publicly Disclose Current Form ATS

One alternative would be to allow NMS Stock ATSs to continue to describe their
operations on current Form ATS, but either make Form ATS public by posting on the
Commission’s website or require NMS Stock ATSs to publicly disclose their initial operation
reports, amendments, and cessation of operations on Form ATS. Non-NMS Stock ATSs’ Form
ATS filings would continue to remain confidential.
Use of current Form ATS would lower the cost of compliance for current and future
NMS Stock ATSs compared to compliance costs under the proposal. However, because the
content of Form ATS would not change under this alternative, market participants would
continue to receive limited information regarding how orders interact, match, and execute on
NMS Stock ATSs and the activities of NMS Stock ATSs’ broker-dealer operators and their
affiliates. Relative to the proposal, market participants’ search costs in identifying which NMS
Stock ATS may better serve their trading interests would increase. As a result, their trading costs
may increase and the execution quality related to their orders may be reduced. The Commission
expects public disclosure of Form ATS could have some harmful effects on the competitive
dynamics of NMS Stock ATSs and result in some exiting the market. However, such effects
would likely be smaller than those expected under the proposal because, under this alternative,
827

See supra Section XIII.C.1.

526

Form ATS would require disclosure of less information about the operations of NMS Stock
ATSs than the more expansive and granular information that NMS Stock ATSs would be
required to disclose in Form ATS-N.
Requiring NMS Stock ATSs to publicly disclose initial operation reports, amendments,
and cessation of operations on Form ATS would place NMS Stock ATSs under greater public
scrutiny, which could improve the quality of the filings compared to the current baseline.
Regulators’ oversight of NMS Stock ATSs under this alternative would be similar to that under
current Regulation ATS, so they would not be able to offer the same level of protection to market
participants as under the proposal.
2.

Require Proposed Form ATS-N But Deem Information Confidential

Another alternative would be to require NMS Stock ATSs to file proposed Form ATS-N
with the Commission but not make Form ATS-N publicly available. Proposed Form ATS-N
would include detailed disclosures about the NMS Stock ATS’s operations and the activities of
its broker-dealer operator and its affiliates, and the Commission would declare filings on Form
ATS-N either effective or ineffective.
This alternative would improve the quality of NMS Stock ATSs’ disclosures to the
Commission because proposed Form ATS-N would require more information about the
operations of NMS Stock ATSs than is currently solicited on Form ATS. In addition, proposed
Form ATS-N would require information about the activities of the broker-dealer operator and its
affiliates, whereas current Form ATS does not require such information. This alternative, which
would include a process for the Commission to determine whether an NMS Stock ATS qualifies
for the exemption from the definition of “exchange,” and declare a proposed Form ATS-N
effective or ineffective, would strengthen the Commission’s oversight of NMS Stock ATSs.
527

However, this alternative would not make NMS Stock ATSs’ operations more transparent
for market participants. The lack of public disclosure of the means of order interaction, display
and routing practices by NMS Stock ATSs could result in market participants making less
informed decisions regarding where to route their orders and therefore result in lower execution
quality than they would obtain under the proposal. Additionally, this alternative would not
reduce the search costs for subscribers to identify potential routing destinations for their orders.
Because proposed Form ATS-N would not be publicly disclosed under this alternative, the level
of competition between NMS Stock ATSs would stay the same, and the lack of transparency
about an NMS Stock ATS’s operations and activities of the broker-dealer operator and its
affiliates would be expected to persist.
3.

Require NMS Stock ATSs to Publicly Disclose Proposed Form ATS-N But
Not Declare Proposed Form ATS-N Effective or Ineffective

Under this alternative, the Commission would require NMS Stock ATSs to file proposed
Form ATS-N and would make it public, but the Commission would continue to use the current
notice regime instead of declaring Form ATS-N effective or ineffective. The Commission would
not determine whether an NMS Stock ATS qualifies for the exemption from the definition of
“exchange,” and would not declare proposed Form ATS-N filings effective or ineffective.
Benefits of maintaining the current notice regime would include a lower demand for
Commission and its staff resources to determine whether an NMS Stock ATS qualifies for the
exemption from the definition of “exchange” and whether the Commission should declare a
proposed Form ATS-N effective or ineffective, and to assess whether the Commission should
suspend, limit, or revoke the effectiveness of an NMS Stock ATS’s Form ATS-N. In addition,
maintaining the current notice regime as opposed to declaring the proposed Form ATS-N

528

effective or ineffective could be cost-effective to NMS Stock ATSs and could lower the barriers
to entry for new NMS Stock ATSs compared to such barriers under the proposal.
Without a process to declare proposed Form ATS-N effective or ineffective, there would
be less assurance that disclosures by NMS Stock ATSs would be accurate, current, and complete
Under this alternative, it would be more difficult for the Commission to exercise its oversight
responsibilities with respect to the accuracy, currency, completeness and fair presentation of
disclosures on proposed Form ATS-N than under the proposal, which would provide a process
for the Commission to declare a proposed Form ATS-N effective or ineffective. Moreover,
continued use of a notice regime could lessen the benefit of enhanced transparency relative to
such benefit under the proposal and as a result, this alternative might not provide the same level
of protection to market participants as the proposal.
4.

Initiate Differing Levels of Public Disclosure Depending on NMS Stock ATS
Characteristics

Under this alternative, the Commission would require different levels of disclosure
among NMS Stock ATSs based on dollar trading volume. For instance, NMS Stock ATSs with
lower transaction volumes would be subject to lower levels of disclosure on proposed Form
ATS-N. As a result, their compliance costs would be lower, which could lower their entry
barriers relative to such barriers under the proposal. Because these small NMS Stock ATSs
would not have to disclose as much information pertaining to their operations, they could have
more time to innovate without disclosing such innovation to competitors. This could allow these
small NMS Stock ATSs to better compete with more established NMS Stock ATSs, national
securities exchanges, and broker-dealers and put more competitive pressure on the market.
Furthermore, reduced regulatory burdens for small NMS Stock ATSs may result in greater

529

innovation relative to the proposal because these small NMS Stock ATSs would not have to be
concerned about disclosing proprietary information. Greater innovation for small NMS Stock
ATSs could give them a greater competitive advantage in attracting order flow relative to large
NMS Stock ATSs. This competitive advantage for small NMS Stock ATSs could spill over to
market participants who execute on these ATSs, by increasing the execution quality of their
trades.
However, under this alternative, broker-dealer operators of NMS Stock ATSs could seek
to allocate order flow to multiple NMS Stock ATSs operated by either the broker-dealer or its
affiliates to avoid reaching threshold volumes that would trigger additional disclosure
requirements. This could create some information opaqueness in the market, which could lead to
lower execution quality for market participants relative to that under the proposal. The
Commission notes, however, that although Regulation ATS currently has volume thresholds for
fair access and quote transparency requirements, the Commission has not observed any ATSs
using such tactics to avoid crossing thresholds.
5.

Require NMS Stock ATSs to Register as National Securities Exchanges and
Become SROs

Under this alternative, the Commission would eliminate the exemption from the
definition of “exchange” for NMS Stock ATSs under Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a) so that an
NMS Stock ATS would be required to register as a national securities exchange and become an
SRO. This alternative would provide market participants with the same protections that
accompany the regulatory regime that applies to national securities exchanges. Without the
benefit of the exemption from the definition of “exchange,” an NMS Stock ATS would be
required, among other things, to file proposed rule changes publicly on Form 19b-4 and make

530

publicly available its entire rule book. Moreover, as a national securities exchange, an NMS
Stock ATS would not be allowed to have conflicts of interest that it can as an NMS Stock ATS.
More information about the priority, order interaction, display, and execution procedures would
help market participants make better informed decisions about where to route their orders for
best execution. If most NMS Stock ATSs decided to register as national securities exchanges
and some NMS Stock ATSs withdrew from the market and stopped operating, competition
among and between these trading venues could increase, leading to greater market liquidity and
market efficiency. Further, this alternative could strengthen Commission oversight, thus
benefitting market participants.
While NMS Stock ATSs would no longer need to register as broker-dealers or comply
with Regulation ATS, registration as national securities exchanges would create high startup
costs and high ongoing operational costs compared to what they would incur under the
proposal. 828 Under this alternative, these new national securities exchanges, which would be
SROs, would, among other things, be required to comply with Section 6 of the Exchange Act.
Because national securities exchange are SROs, a new national securities exchange would bear
certain regulatory costs that are higher than those associated with registering as a broker-dealer.
For example, a national securities exchange would bear expenses associated with joining the

828

Newly registered national securities exchanges must establish appropriate surveillance
and disciplinary mechanisms, and as a result incur start-up costs associated with such
obligations, such as writing a rule book. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra
note 7, at 70897. Furthermore, the cost of acquiring the necessary assets and the
operating funds to carry out the day-to-day functions of a national securities exchange are
significant. See id.

531

national market system plans and surveilling trading activity and member conduct on the
exchange. 829
6.

Discontinue Quarterly Volume Reports on Form ATS-R

Another alternative would be to amend Regulation ATS so that NMS Stock ATSs would
no longer be required to file quarterly volume reports on Form ATS-R because, as noted above,
FINRA rules currently require ATSs that transact in NMS stocks to report aggregate weekly
volume information and the number of trades to FINRA in certain equity securities, including
NMS stocks.830
Instead, NMS Stock ATSs would be required to disclose, in quarterly amendments to
Form ATS-N, the information that is currently captured by Form ATS-R that is not captured by
FINRA reporting requirements. The Commission notes that, in addition to requiring unit volume
of transactions, Form ATS-R, which is “deemed confidential when filed,” 831 requires ATSs to
report dollar volume of transactions during the quarter, a list of all subscribers that were
participants on the ATS during the quarter, a list of all securities that were traded on the ATS
during the quarter, and, if the ATS is subject to fair access requirements under Rule 301(b)(5),
information about all persons that were granted, denied or limited access during the quarter.
The benefit of this alternative would be that NMS Stock ATSs would no longer be
required to report quarterly on Form ATS-R information that is otherwise available. In addition,
information that is currently deemed confidential on Form ATS-R would be made publicly
829

See Regulation NMS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at 70903.

830

See supra note 122. Each ATS is also required to use a unique MPID in its reporting to
FINRA, such that its volume reporting is distinguishable from other transaction volume
reported by the broker-dealer operator of the ATS.

831

See 17 CFR 242.301(b)(2)(vii).

532

available in quarterly amendments to Form ATS-N. NMS Stock ATSs would, however, be
required to submit such quarterly amendments, which an NMS Stock ATS would not otherwise
be required to do if the NMS Stock ATS did not have any other material changes to report during
the quarter.
The Commission does not believe that this alternative would create significant new costs
in preparing a quarterly Form ATS-N because the costs would be comparable to the costs of
preparing Form ATS-R. However, as a result of the effective merging of proposed Form ATS-N
and current Form ATS-R under this alternative, some of the information that would be made
public on proposed Form ATS-N, such as the ATS’s subscriber list and the list of persons
granted, denied, or limited access during the reporting period (which is not being solicited under
the proposed Form ATS-N) could be proprietary. Making such information public could harm
the NMS Stock ATS as well as persons denied access.
7.

Require NMS Stock ATSs to Operate as Limited Purpose Entities

Another alternative would be to amend Regulation ATS to require an NMS Stock ATS to
operate as a “stand-alone” entity, which would exist only to operate the ATS and have no
affiliation with any broker-dealer that seeks to execute proprietary or agency orders on the NMS
Stock ATS. Under this alternative, NMS Stock ATSs would be required to publicly disclose
proposed Form ATS-N, proposed Form ATS-N Amendments, and notices of cessation on
proposed Form ATS-N, and would be limited purpose entities that could not engage in any
activities other than operation of the ATS. This alternative would prohibit the broker-dealer
operator of the NMS Stock ATS from engaging in any other broker-dealer activity, and would
consequently prohibit the operation of an NMS Stock ATS by a multi-service broker-dealer.

533

The benefit of this alternative would be to eliminate potential conflicts of interest by
requiring a broker-dealer that operates an NMS Stock ATS to have only a single business
function, namely, operating the ATS. The broker-dealer would be required to eliminate any
other functions, such as trading on a proprietary basis or routing customer orders.
However, this alternative may discourage broker-dealers from creating and operating
innovative NMS Stock ATS platforms, and instead drive them to execute their own proprietary
trades internally on their other broker-dealer systems. In addition, if they were no longer able to
trade on a proprietary basis or route customer orders to their own NMS Stock ATS, many
broker-dealers may choose to file a cessation of operations report and shut down the operations
of their NMS Stock ATS. 832 Shutting down their NMS Stock ATS operations could result in
similar (though potentially more severe) effects on the competitive dynamics of the ATS market
as under the proposal. This could push more liquidity to less transparent venues (i.e., non-ATS
OTC trading centers) or could result in more liquidity moving to national securities exchanges.
The remaining NMS Stock ATSs, which would likely be fewer in number as some broker-dealer
operators choose to cease operations of the ATSs, could become popular trading destinations
because the absence of conflicts of interest could encourage market participants to route orders to
those trading centers. Market participants would likely still have a need for anonymous trading,
which could further contribute to liquidity still flowing to the stand-alone NMS Stock ATSs.
Thus, if multi-service broker-dealers that operate their own NMS Stock ATS cease operating the
832

Alternatively, current broker-dealer operators of ATSs that trade NMS stocks may choose
to spin-off or sell their ATS rather than cease operations. The expected number of
broker-dealer operators selling their ATSs at once could affect the value the broker-dealer
operator could receive from the sale and, as such, could factor into the decision of
whether to spin-off, sell, or fold their ATS.

534

ATSs, liquidity might move to other trading venues, including both transparent venues, such as
national securities exchanges, and less transparent venues, such as non-ATS OTC trading
centers. On the other hand, cessation of operations of NMS Stock ATSs owned by multi-service
broker dealers could also result in stand-alone NMS Stock ATSs, which would not have the
potential conflicts of interest discussed above, attracting more liquidity.
8.

Lower the Fair Access Threshold for NMS Stock ATSs

As discussed above, NMS Stock ATSs are not required to provide fair access to the
services of the NMS Stock ATS unless the ATS reaches the 5% trading volume threshold in a
stock under Rule 301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS. 833 As an alternative to the proposed
enhancements to the conditions to the exemption from the definition of “exchange” pursuant to
Rule 3a1-1(a) for NMS Stock ATSs, which would include NMS Stock ATSs making the
disclosures required by Form ATS-N so that market participants could make more informed
decisions about an NMS Stock ATS as a potential trading venue, 834 the Commission considered
lowering the fair access threshold under Rule 301(b)(5) of Regulation ATS 835 for NMS Stock
ATSs to a level sufficiently low such that most NMS Stock ATSs would be prohibited from
engaging in many discriminatory practices. 836

833

See supra notes 92-95 and accompanying text.

834

As discussed above in Sections VII and VIII, the information that would be disclosed on
Form ATS-N would include, among other things, whether different classes of subscribers
or persons have differing access to the services of the ATS.

835

17 CFR 242.301(b)(5).

836

As discussed above in Section VII.B, the requirements of Rule 301(b)(5) that prohibit or
limit discriminatory practices of ATSs only apply to NMS Stock ATSs that cross the fair
access threshold, and then, apply only with respect to the NMS stocks in which an ATS
crosses the threshold.

535

One of the principal aims of this proposed rulemaking is to provide market participants
with more information about the activities of the broker-dealer operator, its affiliates, and the
operations of the NMS Stock ATS, so they may better assess NMS Stock ATSs as potential
trading venue for their orders. For example, as discussed above, the Commission is concerned
that market participants have limited or different levels of information about how the NMS Stock
ATSs operate, and the activities of broker-dealer operators and their affiliates. 837 The
Commission could propose new rules that would expressly prohibit or limit organizational
structures that might raise conflicts of interest, or could expressly prohibit or limit the manner by
which an ATS discriminates among or between subscribers. Lowering the threshold that triggers
the fair access requirements would be one of the means of prohibiting or limiting certain
discriminatory practices.
The Commission preliminarily believes that lowering the fair access threshold for NMS
Stock ATSs would require the Commission to consider lowering the fair access threshold to
zero, or to some threshold between zero and 5%. If the fair access threshold remained at a
threshold above zero, the benefit of this approach, as compared to the proposed disclosure
requirements that would apply to all NMS Stock ATSs, could be further limited by the fact that
the fair access requirements would apply only to the NMS stocks for which the NMS Stock ATS
had crossed the fair access threshold. The Commission could address that situation by proposing
further amendments to the fair access requirements that would extend an ATS’s fair access duties
to all NMS stocks once the fair access threshold had been crossed by an ATS in a certain number
of NMS stocks, to revise the duties incurred when the threshold is crossed, or to simply lower the
837

See supra Section III.C.

536

threshold to zero, which would have the effect of requiring all NMS Stock ATSs to immediately
comply with the fair access requirements for all NMS stocks. However, the Commission
preliminarily believes that the disclosures that would be required by proposed Form ATS-N
requirements would be a cost effective and simpler approach than proposing fundamental
revisions to the fair access requirements that would achieve the aim of providing market
participants with information to better assess NMS Stock ATSs as potential trading venues.
9.

Apply Proposed Rule 304 to ATSs that Trade Fixed Income Securities and
ATSs that Solely Trade Government Securities

Another alternative would be to amend Regulation ATS to require ATSs that trade fixed
income securities and ATSs that solely trade government securities to also report information
about their operations and activities of the broker-dealer operator and affiliates on Form ATS-N.
Under this alternative, NMS Stock ATSs, as well as ATSs that trade fixed income securities and
ATSs that solely trade government securities, would be required to publicly disclose proposed
Form ATS-N, proposed Form ATS-N Amendments, and notices of cessation on proposed Form
ATS-N.
The benefit of this alternative is that it may provide market participants with clearer
transparency regarding the operations and activities of all types of ATSs, not just NMS stock
ATSs. To the extent that there may be market participants who predominately trade orders of
NMS stock, fixed income securities, and government securities on ATSs, these market
participants would benefit from the added transparency regarding how these venues operate and
the activities of their broker-dealer operators and affiliates.
ATSs that effect trades in fixed income securities primarily compete against other trading
venues with limited or no operational transparency requirements or standards. This is not the

537

case with NMS Stock ATSs, which provide limited information to market participants about
their operations and compete directly with national securities exchanges, which are required to
publicly disclose information about their operations in the form of proposed rule changes and a
public rule book.838 With government securities, trading occurs in bilateral transactions or on
centralized electronic trading platforms that generally operate with limited transparency. 839
Because the market structure for and transparency requirements related to trading each of these
types of securities (NMS Stock ATSs, fixed income, government securities) differ, Form ATS-N
under this alternative would need to include different or additional disclosure requirements
related to the operations and activities of each of these types of ATSs, so as to capture the
nuances in each particular market. As a result, Form ATS-N under this alternative would need to
be much more complex than the proposed Form ATS-N, increasing the costs for investors to
efficiently use Form ATS-N for a given type of security trading and for NMS Stock ATSs,
reducing the benefits from Form ATS-N in NMS stocks. In addition, fixed income ATSs would
incur costs to comply with the additional disclosures, which could result in an exit of existing
fixed income ATSs, discourage innovation in surviving fixed income ATSs, and increase barriers
to entry for new fixed income ATSs. Because the corporate and municipal fixed income markets
lack much of the automation present for venues that trade NMS stocks, such costs could be more
critical in the development of the fixed income market than in the markets for NMS stocks.
Furthermore, as discussed above, ATSs that solely trade government securities are exempt from

838

See supra Section IV.B.

839

See id.

538

compliance with Regulation ATS. 840 To the extent that this exemption is removed and such
ATSs were required to comply with Regulation ATS, including proposed Rule 304, these ATSs
would incur costs associated with the public reporting and recordkeeping requirements of
Regulation ATS.
Request for Comment on the Economic Analysis
The Commission is sensitive to the potential economic effects, including the costs and
benefits, of the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS. The Commission has identified above
certain costs and benefits associated with the proposal and requests comment on all aspects of its
preliminary economic analysis. The Commission encourages commenters to identify, discuss,
analyze, and supply relevant data, information, or statistics regarding any such costs or
benefits. In particular, the Commission seeks comment on the following:
506.

Do you believe the Commission’s analysis of the potential effects of the proposed
amendments to Regulation ATS is reasonable? Why or why not? Please explain
in detail.

507.

Do you believe the Commission’s assessment of the baseline for the economic
analysis is reasonable? Why or why not? Please explain in detail.

508.

Do you believe that the proposing release provides a fair representation of current
practices and how those current practices would change under the proposed
amendments to Regulation ATS? Why or why not? Please explain in detail.

509.

Do you believe that the Commission has reasonably described how the
competitive landscape for the market for NMS stock execution services would be

840

See supra note 64.

539

affected under the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS? Why or why
not? Please explain in detail. Does the release discuss all relevant forms of
competition and whether the proposal could alter them? If not, which additional
forms of competition could the proposal impact and how? Please explain in
detail.
510.

Do you believe that the Commission has reasonably identified all market
participants that would be affected by the proposed amendments to Regulation
ATS? If so, why? If not, why not, and which market participants do you believe
are not reasonably excluded or would be affected by the proposed
amendments? Please explain in detail.

511.

Do you believe that the Commission has reasonably described how market
participants would be affected by the proposed amendments to Regulation
ATS? Why or why not? Please explain in detail.

512.

Do you believe that the Commission has reasonably described the information
market participants currently receive? If so, why? If not, why not? Please
explain in detail.

513.

Do you believe that the Commission has reasonably described the benefits market
participants would receive from the information that would be required to be
disclosed by the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS? Why or why
not? Please explain in detail.

514.

Do you believe that market participants currently have all relevant information
concerning the activities of the broker-dealer operator of the NMS Stock ATS and
its affiliates as such activities relate to the NMS Stock ATS? Why or why
540

not? Do you believe there is information that is not required in the proposed
amendments to Regulation ATS that would be beneficial to market
participants? If so, please describe that information and its benefits in detail. If
not, why not? Please support your arguments.
515.

Do you believe that market participants currently have all relevant information
concerning the subscribers to the NMS Stock ATS where their orders are
executed? Why or why not? Do you believe there is information that is not
required in the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS that would be beneficial
to market participants? If so, please describe that information and its benefits in
detail. If not, why not? Please support your arguments.

516.

Do you believe that market participants currently have all relevant information
concerning the trading operations of the NMS Stock ATS where their orders are
executed? Why or why not? Do you believe there is information that is not
required in the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS that would be beneficial
to market participants? If so, please describe that information and its benefits in
detail. If not, why not? Please support your arguments.

517.

Do you believe that market participants currently have all relevant information
concerning the services offered by the NMS Stock ATS where their orders are
executed and their fee structures? Why or why not? Do you believe there is
information that is not required in the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS
that would be beneficial to market participants? If so, please describe that
information and its benefits in detail. If not, why not? Please support your
arguments.
541

518.

Do you believe that market participants currently have all relevant information
concerning the safeguards and procedures that NMS Stock ATSs have instituted
to protect their confidential trading information? Why or why not? Is there
information that is not required in the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS
that would be beneficial to market participants? If so, please describe that
information and its benefits in detail. If not, why not? Please support your
arguments.

519.

Do you believe that the Commission has reasonably described its analysis of the
costs and benefits of each proposed amendment to Regulation ATS? Why or why
not? Please explain in detail.

520.

Do you believe that there are additional benefits or costs that could be quantified
or otherwise monetized? Why or why not? If so, please identify these categories
and, if possible, provide specific estimates or data.

521.

Do you believe there are there any additional benefits that may arise from the
proposed amendments to Regulation ATS? If so, what are such benefits? Please
explain in detail.

522.

Do you believe there are benefits described above that would not likely result
from the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS? If so, please explain these
benefits or lack of benefits in detail.

523.

Do you believe there are any additional costs that may arise from the proposed
amendments to Regulation ATS? If so, do you believe there are methods by
which the Commission could reduce the costs imposed by the proposed

542

amendments to Regulation ATS while still achieving the goals? Please explain in
detail.
524.

Do you believe there are any potential unintended consequences of the proposed
amendments to Regulation ATS? If so, what are they? If not, why not?

525.

Do you believe there are costs described above that would not likely result from
the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.

526.

Do you believe that the proposing release appropriately describes the potential
effects of the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS on the promotion of
efficiency, competition, and capital formation? Why or why not? If possible,
please provide analysis and empirical data to support your arguments on the
competitive or anticompetitive effects, as well as the efficiency and capital
formation effects, of the proposed amendments.

527.

Do you believe that there are alternative mechanisms for achieving the
Commission’s goal of improving transparency of NMS Stock ATS’s trading
operations and regulatory oversight while promoting competition and capital
formation? If so, what are such mechanisms? Please explain in detail.

528.

Do you believe that market participants would change their behavior in response
to the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS in any way? Why or why not? If
so, which market participants would change their behavior and how? If not, why
not? What would be the benefits and costs of these changes? How would these
changes affect efficiency, competition, and capital formation? How would these

543

changes affect market quality and market efficiency? Please support your
arguments.
529.

Do you believe there are benefits that may arise if the Commission were to apply
proposed Rule 304, in whole or in part, to fixed income ATSs? If so, what are
such benefits? Please explain in detail.

530.

Do you believe there are costs that may arise if the Commission were to apply
proposed Rule 304, in whole or in part, to fixed income ATSs? If so, what are
such costs? Please explain in detail.

531.

Do you believe that the proposed amendments could result in NMS Stock ATSs
selecting to trade fixed income securities instead of NMS stocks, because, under
the proposed amendments, Rule 304 would not apply to fixed income securities?
Please explain in detail.

532.

Do you believe that if the Commission were to apply proposed Rule 304 to fixed
income ATSs, this could alter the nature of competition in the market for order
execution services for fixed income securities? Why or why not? Please support
your arguments.

533.

Do you believe that if the Commission were to apply proposed Rule 304 to fixed
income ATSs, this could promote greater efficiency, competition, and capital
formation relative to the current proposal? If so, please explain in detail.

534.

Do you believe there are benefits that may arise if the Commission should adopt
amendments to Regulation ATS to remove the exemption under Rule
301(a)(4)(ii)(A) of Regulation ATS for ATSs whose trading activity is solely in
government securities? If so, what are such benefits? Please explain in detail.
544

535.

Do you believe that there are benefits that may arise if the Commission enhances
the transparency requirements applicable to ATSs that effect transactions solely in
government securities? If so, what are such benefits? Please explain in detail.

536.

Do you believe there are costs that may arise if the Commission adopted
amendments to Regulation ATS to remove the exemption under Rule
301(a)(4)(ii)(A) of Regulation ATS for ATSs whose trading activity is solely in
government securities? If so, what are such costs? Please explain in detail.

537.

Do you believe that there are costs that may arise if the Commission were to
apply Rule 304 to ATSs that effect transactions solely in government securities?
If so, what are such costs? Please explain in detail.

538.

Do you believe that the proposed amendments could result in ATSs selecting to
solely trade government securities instead of NMS stocks, because, under the
proposal, Rule 304 would not apply to government securities? Please explain in
detail.

539.

Do you believe that if the Commission were to apply Rule 304 to ATSs that
solely trade government securities, this could alter the nature of competition in the
market for order execution services for government securities? Why or why not?
Please support your arguments.

540.

Do you believe that if the Commission were to apply proposed Rule 304 to ATSs
that solely trade government securities, this could promote greater efficiency,
competition, and capital formation relative to the current proposal? If so, please
explain in detail.

545

541.

Do you believe that requiring NMS Stock ATSs to do something more to ensure
compliance with proposed Rule 304 than the certification required under FINRA
Rule 3130 would have effects on regulatory oversight and investor protection? If
so, please explain in detail.

542.

Do some NMS Stock ATSs currently disclose aggregate platform-wide order flow
and execution statistics regarding the NMS Stock ATS that are not otherwise
required disclosures under Exchange Act Rule 605 of Regulation NMS to one or
more subscribers by the NMS Stock ATS? If so, what order flow and execution
statistics are provided? How widely disseminated is the information? To what
extent do the NMS Stock ATSs disclose how they calculate the statistics? Please
explain in detail.

543.

Do you believe that there are benefits to market participants from having NMS
Stock ATSs publicly disclose aggregate platform-wide order flow and execution
statistics regarding the NMS Stock ATS that are not otherwise required
disclosures under Exchange Act Rule 605 of Regulation NMS but still published
or otherwise provided to one or more subscribers by the NMS Stock ATS, and
from having NMS Stock ATSs describe how those statistics are calculated? If so,
please explain in detail. Do you believe that there are costs to NMS Stock ATSs
from having them publicly disclose those market quality statistics and describe
how those statistics are calculated? If so, please explain in detail.

544.

Do you believe that there are benefits to market participants if the Commission
were to require NMS Stock ATSs to provide disclosure about their governance

546

structure, compliance programs and controls to comply with Regulation ATS? If
so, please explain in detail.
545.

Do you believe that there are costs to NMS Stock ATSs if the Commission were
to require them to provide disclosure about their governance structure,
compliance programs and controls to comply with Regulation ATS? If so, please
explain in detail.

546.

Should proposed Form ATS-N be submitted or made publicly available on
EDGAR instead of through the EFFS system and the Commission’s website?
What would be the advantages to the public or to NMS Stock ATSs of access
through EDGAR instead of the Commission’s proposed process?

547.

Should some or all of the information in proposed Form ATS-N be submitted in a
particular financial reporting language such as the FIX Protocol, eXtensible
Business Reporting Language (XBRL), or some other open standard that is
widely available to the public and at no cost? Should the Commission create a
new taxonomy for submitting the information in proposed Form ATS-N?

548.

Should the Commission require that some or all of the information in proposed
Form ATS-N be tagged using standard electronic definitions of a particular
taxonomy, and what would be the additional compliance costs associated with
tagging the information?

549.

Would requiring any of the information in the narrative responses to be submitted
in a tagged format enhance the public’s use of the data beyond the Commission’s
proposal? If so, how?

547

550.

Could a format other than the one proposed to be accepted by the EFFS system
reduce the burden on NMS Stock ATSs in filing the required disclosures with the
Commission? For example, could a single machine-readable PDF reduce the
filing burden on NMS Stock ATSs? If so, please identify the alternative format
and the reduced filing burdens associated with it.

551.

Should proposed Form ATS-N be structured in a more granular detail, and if so,
how? In addition, how would the more granular detail enhance the public’s use of
the data beyond the Commission’s proposal? What would be the costs of
providing more granular detail?

552.

Would the public’s usability of the data be enhanced if it were structured in
another format? If so, please identify the other format and describe how the
public’s use of the data would be enhanced by the other format. If possible,
discuss factors about the other format such as how commonly available it is,
whether it is viewer-independent, whether it is an open standard, how it has been
adopted internationally and in other regulatory contexts, and how it supports
document attachments or references as well as narrative and numeric data.

553.

Do you believe that the Commission articulated all reasonable alternatives for the
proposed amendments to Regulation ATS? If not, please provide additional
alternatives and how their costs and benefits, as well as their potential impacts on
the promotion of efficiency, competition, and capital formation, would compare
to the proposed amendments.

554.

Do you believe that the Commission has reasonably described the costs and
benefits for the alternatives described above? If not, please provide more accurate
548

descriptions of costs and benefits, including any data or statistics that support
those costs and benefits.
555.

Do you believe that the Commission has reasonably described the potential
impacts on the promotion of efficiency, competition, and capital formation of the
alternatives described above relative to the proposed amendments? If not, please
explain in detail which impacts for which alternatives the Commission has not
reasonably described, and support your arguments with any applicable data or
statistics.

556.

The Commission generally requests comment on the competitive or
anticompetitive effects, as well as the efficiency and capital formation effects, of
the proposed amendments to Regulation ATS on market participants if the
proposed rules are adopted as proposed. Commenters should provide analysis and
empirical data to support their views on the competitive or anticompetitive
effects, as well as the efficiency and capital formation effects, of the proposed
amendments to Regulation ATS.

557.

The Commission generally requests comment on whether the benefits of the
proposed amendments to Regulation ATS justify the costs. Please be specific and
provide details. Commenters should provide analysis and empirical data to
support their views on the benefits and costs of the proposed amendments to
Regulation ATS.

558.

Do you believe that the Commission has solicited the right set of information on
proposed Form ATS-N, which will be made available to the public? Is there any

549

other information the Commission should ask NMS Stock ATSs to provide on
Form ATS-N? If so, please provide details.
XIV. Consideration of Impact on the Economy
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, 841 the
Commission requests comment on the potential effect of the proposed amendments and Form
ATS-N on the United States economy on an annual basis. The Commission also requests
comment on any potential increases in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries, and
any potential effect on competition, investment, or innovation. Commenters are requested to
provide empirical data and other factual support for their views to the extent possible.

841

5 U.S.C. 603.

550

XV.

Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
Section 3(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 842 (“RFA”) requires the

Commission to undertake an initial regulatory flexibility analysis of the impact of the proposed
rule amendments on small entities unless the Commission certifies that the rule, if adopted,
would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. 843 For
purposes of Commission rulemaking in connection with the RFA, 844 a small entity includes a
broker or dealer that: (1) had total capital (net worth plus subordinated liabilities) of less than
$500,000 on the date in the prior fiscal year as of which its audited financial statements were
prepared pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d) under the Exchange Act, 845 or, if not required to file such
statements, a broker-dealer with total capital (net worth plus subordinated liabilities) of less than
$500,000 on the last day of the preceding fiscal year (or in the time that it has been in business, if
shorter); and (2) is not affiliated with any person (other than a natural person) that is not a small
business or small organization. 846 With regard to national securities exchanges, a small entity is

842

5 U.S.C. 603(a).

843

5 U.S.C. 605(b).

844

Although Section 601(b) of the RFA defines the term “small entity,” the statute permits
agencies to formulate their own definitions. The Commission has adopted definitions for
the term “small entity” for the purposes of Commission rulemaking in accordance with
the RFA. Those definitions, as relevant to this proposed rulemaking, are set forth in Rule
0-10 under the Exchange Act, 17 CFR 240.0-10. See Exchange Act Release No. 18451
(January 28, 1982), 47 FR 5215 (February 4, 1982) (File No. AS-305).

845

17 CFR 240.17a-5(d).

846

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(c). See also 17 CFR 240.0-10(i) (providing that a broker or dealer
is affiliated with another person if: such broker or dealer controls, is controlled by, or is
under common control with such other person; a person shall be deemed to control
another person if that person has the right to vote 25 percent or more of the voting
securities of such other person or is entitled to receive 25 percent or more of the net
profits of such other person or is otherwise able to direct or cause the direction of the

551

an exchange that has been exempt from the reporting requirements of Rule 601 under Regulation
NMS, and is not affiliated with any person (other than a natural person) that is not a small
business or small organization. 847
All ATSs, including NMS Stock ATSs, would continue to have to register as brokerdealers. 848 The Commission examined recent FOCUS data for the 46 broker-dealers that
currently operate ATSs that trade NMS stocks and concluded that 1 of the broker-dealer
operators of ATSs that currently trade NMS stock had total capital of less than $500,000 on the
last day of the preceding fiscal year (or in the time that it has been in business, if shorter). 849 The
Commission notes that this broker-dealer operator has never reported any transaction volume in
any security, including NMS stock, to the Commission on Form ATS-R. Given that this
particular ATS has never reported any transaction volume to the Commission over the six years
since it first submitted its Form ATS to the Commission, the Commission preliminarily believes
that this ATS would likely not submit a Form ATS-N if the proposed amendments to Regulation
ATS are adopted. Consequently, the Commission certifies that the proposed amendments to
management or policies of such other person; or such broker or dealer introduces
transactions in securities, other than registered investment company securities or interests
or participations in insurance company separate accounts, to such other person, or
introduces accounts of customers or other brokers or dealers, other than accounts that
hold only registered investment company securities or interests or participations in
insurance company separate accounts, to such other person that carries such accounts on
a fully disclosed basis).
847

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(e). The Commission notes that while national securities exchanges
can operate an ATS, subject to certain conditions, such an ATS would have to be
registered as a broker-dealer. See Regulation ATS Adopting Release, supra note 7, at
70891. Currently, no national securities exchange operates an ATS that trades NMS
stocks.

848

17 CFR 242.301(b)(1).

552

Regulation ATS would not, if adopted, have a significant economic impact on a substantial
number of small entities.
The Commission encourages written comments regarding this certification. The
Commission solicits comment as to whether the proposed amendments could have impacts on
small entities that have not been considered. The Commission requests that commenters
describe the nature of any impacts on small entities and provide empirical data to support the
extent of such effect. Such comments will be placed in the same public file as comments on the
proposed amendments to Regulation ATS. Persons wishing to submit written comments should
refer to the instructions for submitting comments in the front of this release.

553

XVI. Statutory Authority
Pursuant to Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq., and particularly Sections [3(b), 5, 6,
11A, 15, 17(a), 17(b), 19, 23(a), and 36 thereof (15 U.S.C. 78c, 78k-1, 78o, 78q(a), 78q(b),
78w(a), and 78mm)], the Commission proposes to adopt Form ATS-N under the Exchange Act,
to amend Rule 3a1-1 and Regulation ATS under the Exchange Act, and to amend 17 CFR
200.30-33.
List of Subjects in 17 CFR Parts 240, 242 and 249
Brokers, Confidential business information, Fraud, Reporting and recordkeeping
requirements, Securities.
For the reasons stated in the preamble, title 17, chapter II of the Code of Federal
Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows:
PART 240 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1934
1.

The authority citation for part 240 continues to read as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss,
77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n-1,
78o, 78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78dd, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a-23,
80a-29, 80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, 7201 et seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C.
5221(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350; and Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010), unless otherwise
noted.
*
*
*
*
*
2.

Amend § 240.3a1-1 by removing “242.303” from paragraphs (a)(2) and (3)
wherever it occurs and adding in its place “242.304”.

PART 242 – REGULATIONS M, SHO, ATS, AC, NMS, AND SBSR AND CUSTOMER
MARGIN REQUIREMENTS FOR SECURITY FUTURES
3.

The authority citation for part 242 continues to read as follows:

554

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77g, 77q(a), 77s(a), 78b, 78c, 78g(c)(2), 78i(a), 78j, 78k-1(c), 78l,
78m, 78n, 78o(b), 78o(c), 78o(g), 78q(a), 78q(b), 78q(h), 78w(a), 78dd-1, 78mm, 80a-23, 80a29, and 80a-37.
4.

Amend § 242.300 by:
a. In paragraph (f) adding the phrase “the broker-dealer of” before the phrase “an
alternative trading system” wherever it occurs; and
b. Adding paragraph (k) to read as follows:

§ 242.300 Definitions.
*

*

*

*

*

(k)

NMS Stock ATS means an alternative trading system, as defined in § 242.300(a),

that facilitates transactions in NMS stocks, as defined in § 242.300(g).
5.

Amend § 242.301 by:
a. In paragraph (b)(2)(i), removing the phrase “, or if the alternative trading
system is operating as of April 21, 1999, no later than May 11, 1999”;
b. In paragraph (b)(2)(vii), removing the phrase “Market Regulation, Stop 10-2”
and in its place adding “Trading and Markets” after the words “Division of”;
c. Adding paragraph (b)(2)(viii);
d. In paragraph (b)(9)(i), adding the word “Separately” before the word “File”
and changing the first letter of the word “File” to lower case and adding the
phrase “for transactions in NMS stocks, as defined in § 242.300(g), and
transactions in securities other than NMS stocks” after the phrase
“(§ 249.638 of this chapter)”;

555

e. In paragraph (b)(9)(ii), adding the word “Separately” before the word “File”
and changing the first letter of the word “File” to lower case and adding the
phrase “for transactions in NMS stocks and transactions in securities other
than NMS stocks” after the phrase “required by Form ATS-R”;
f. In paragraph (b)(10), adding the word “Written” before the phrase
“Procedures to ensure the confidential treatment of trading information” and
changing the first letter of the word “Procedures” to lower case;
g. In paragraph (b)(10)(i), adding the word “written” before the word
“safeguards” in both instances and adding the word “written” before the word
“procedures” in both instances; and
h. In paragraph (b)(10)(ii), adding the word “written” before the word
“oversight” and adding the word “written” before the word “safeguards”.
The addition reads as follows:
§ 242.301 Requirements for alternative trading systems.
*

*

*

*

(b)

*

*

*

(2)

*

*

*

*

(viii) An alternative trading system that is an NMS Stock ATS shall file the reports and
amendments required by § 242.304, and shall not be subject to the requirements of paragraph
(b)(2) of this section. An alternative trading system that effects transactions in both NMS stocks
and non-NMS stocks shall be subject to the requirements of § 242.304 of this chapter with
respect to NMS stocks and paragraph (b)(2) of this section with respect to non-NMS stocks.
*

*

*

*

*

556

6.

Amend § 242.303 by:
a. In paragraph (a) introductory text, removing “(b)(9)” and add in its place
“(b)(8)”;
b. Adding paragraph (a)(1)(v); and
c. In paragraph (a)(2)(ii), adding the phrase “or § 242.304” after the phrase
“paragraph (b)(2) of § 242.301”.
The addition reads as follows:

§ 242.303 Record preservation requirements for alternative trading systems.
*

*

*

*

(a)

*

*

*

(1)

*

*

*

*

(v) At least one copy of the written safeguards and written procedures to protect
subscribers’ confidential trading information and the written oversight procedures created in the
course of complying with paragraph (b)(10) of § 242.301.
7.

Add § 242.304 to the undesignated center heading Regulation ATS—Alternative
Trading Systems to read as follows:

§ 242.304 NMS Stock ATSs.
(a) Conditions to the exemption. Unless not required to comply with Regulation ATS
pursuant to § 242.301(a), an NMS Stock ATS must comply with §§ 242.300 through 242.304
(except § 242.301(b)(2)) to be exempt from the definition of an exchange pursuant to § 240.3a11(a)(2).
(1) Form ATS-N—(i) Filing. No exemption from the definition of “exchange” is
557

available to an NMS Stock ATS pursuant to § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) unless the NMS Stock ATS files
with the Commission a Form ATS-N, in accordance with the instructions therein, and the
Commission declares the Form ATS-N effective. If the NMS Stock ATS is operating pursuant
to a previously filed initial operation report on Form ATS as of [effective date of the final rule],
such NMS Stock ATS shall file with the Commission a Form ATS-N, in accordance with the
instructions therein, no later than 120 calendar days after [effective date of the final rule]. An
NMS Stock ATS operating as of [effective date of the final rule] may continue to operate
pursuant to a previously filed initial operation report on Form ATS pending the Commission’s
review of the filed Form ATS-N.
(ii) Review period and extension of the 120-day review period. (A) The Commission will
declare a Form ATS-N filed by an NMS Stock ATS operating as of [effective date of the final
rule] effective or ineffective no later than 120 calendar days from filing with the Commission.
The Commission may extend the Form ATS-N review period for an NMS Stock ATS operating
as of [effective date of the final rule] for:
(1) An additional 120 calendar days if the Form ATS-N is unusually lengthy or raises
novel or complex issues that require additional time for review, in which case the Commission
will notify the NMS Stock ATS in writing within the initial 120-day review period and will
briefly describe the reason for the determination for which additional time for review is required;
or
(2) Any extended review period to which a duly-authorized representative of the NMS
Stock ATS agrees in writing.
(B) The Commission will declare a Form ATS-N filed by an NMS Stock ATS that was
not operating as of [effective date of the final rule] effective or ineffective no later than 120
558

calendar days from filing with the Commission. The Commission may extend the Form ATS-N
review period for:
(1) An additional 90 days, if the Form ATS-N is unusually lengthy or raises novel or
complex issues that require additional time for review, in which case the Commission will notify
the NMS Stock ATS in writing within the initial 120-day review period and will briefly describe
the reason for the determination for which additional time for review is required; or
(2) Any extended review period to which a duly-authorized representative of the NMS
Stock ATS agrees in writing.
(iii) Effectiveness. The Commission will declare effective a Form ATS-N if the NMS
Stock ATS qualifies for the Rule 3a1-1(a)(2) exemption. The Commission will declare
ineffective a Form ATS-N if it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing, that such action is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors.
(iv) Order regarding effectiveness. The Commission will issue an order to declare a
Form ATS-N effective or ineffective. Upon the effectiveness of the Form ATS-N, the NMS
Stock ATS may operate pursuant to the conditions of this section. If the Commission declares a
Form ATS-N ineffective, the NMS Stock ATS shall be prohibited from operating as an NMS
Stock ATS. A Form ATS-N declared ineffective would not prevent the NMS Stock ATS from
subsequently filing a new Form ATS-N.
(2) Form ATS-N amendment—(i) Form ATS-N amendment filing requirements. An NMS
Stock ATS shall amend an effective Form ATS-N, in accordance with the instructions therein:
(A) At least 30 calendar days prior to the date of implementation of a material change to
the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or to the activities of the broker-dealer operator or its
affiliates that are subject to disclosure on Form ATS-N;
559

(B) Within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter to correct any other
information that has become inaccurate for any reason and has not been previously reported to
the Commission as a Form ATS-N Amendment; or
(C) Promptly, to correct information in any previous disclosure on Form ATS-N, after
discovery that any information filed under paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (a)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this
section was inaccurate or incomplete when filed.
(ii) Commission review. The Commission will, by order, if it finds that such action is
necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the protection of investors,
declare ineffective any Form ATS-N Amendment filed pursuant to paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A)
through (C) of this section no later than 30 calendar days from filing with the Commission. If
the Commission declares a Form ATS-N Amendment ineffective, the NMS Stock ATS shall be
prohibited from operating pursuant to the ineffective Form ATS-N Amendment. A Form ATS-N
Amendment declared ineffective would not prevent the NMS Stock ATS from subsequently
filing a new Form ATS-N Amendment.
(3) Notice of cessation. An NMS Stock ATS shall notice its cessation of operations on
Form ATS-N at least 10 business days before the date the NMS Stock ATS ceases to operate as
an NMS Stock ATS. The notice of cessation shall cause the Form ATS-N to become ineffective
on the date designated by the NMS Stock ATS.
(4) Suspension, limitation, and revocation of the exemption from the definition of
exchange. (i) The Commission will, by order, if it finds, after notice and opportunity for hearing,
that such action is necessary or appropriate in the public interest, and is consistent with the
protection of investors, suspend for a period not exceeding twelve months, limit, or revoke an

560

NMS Stock ATS’s exemption from the definition of “exchange” pursuant to § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) of
this chapter.
(ii) If an NMS Stock ATS’s exemption is suspended or revoked pursuant to paragraph
(a)(4)(i) of this section, the NMS Stock ATS shall be prohibited from operating pursuant to the
exemption from the definition an “exchange” pursuant to § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) of this chapter. If an
NMS Stock ATS’s exemption is limited pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, the NMS
Stock ATS shall be prohibited from operating in a manner otherwise inconsistent with the terms
and conditions of the Commission order.
(b) Public disclosures. (1) Every Form ATS-N filed pursuant to this section shall
constitute a “report” within the meaning of sections 11A, 17(a), 18(a), and 32(a) (15 U.S.C. 78k1, 78q(a), 78r(a), and 78ff(a)), and any other applicable provisions of the Act.
(2) The Commission would make public via posting on the Commission’s website, each:
(i) Order of effectiveness of a Form ATS-N;
(ii) Order of ineffectiveness of a Form ATS-N;
(iii) Effective Form ATS-N;
(iv) Filed Form ATS-N Amendment;
(v) Order of ineffectiveness of a Form ATS-N Amendment;
(vi) Notice of cessation; and
(vii) Order suspending, limiting, or revoking the exemption from the definition of an
“exchange” pursuant to § 240.3a1-1(a)(2) of this chapter.
(3) Each NMS Stock ATS shall make public via posting on its website a direct URL
hyperlink to the Commission’s website that contains the documents enumerated in paragraph
(b)(2) of this section.
561

(c) Form ATS-N filing requirements. (1) A filed Form ATS-N must respond to each item,
as applicable, in detail and disclose information that is accurate, current, and complete.
(2) Any report required to be filed with the Commission under this section shall be filed
electronically on Form ATS-N, and include all information as prescribed in Form ATS-N and the
instructions thereto and contain an electronic signature. The signatory to an electronically filed
Form ATS-N shall manually sign a signature page or document, in the manner prescribed by
Form ATS-N, authenticating, acknowledging, or otherwise adopting his or her signature that
appears in typed form within the electronic filing. Such document shall be executed before or at
the time Form ATS-N is electronically filed and shall be retained by the NMS Stock ATS in
accordance with § 242.303.
PART 249 - FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
8.

The general authority citation for part 249 continues to read in part as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. and 7201 et seq.; 12 U.S.C. 5461 et seq.; 18 U.S.C.
1350; Sec. 953(b), Pub. L. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1904; and Sec. 102(a)(3), Pub. L. 112-106, 126
Stat. 309, unless otherwise noted.
*
*
*
*
*
9.

Add § 249.640 to subpart G to read as follows:

§ 249.640 Form ATS-N, information required of NMS Stock ATSs pursuant to §
242.304(a) of this chapter.
This form shall be used by every NMS Stock ATS to file required reports under §
242.304(a) of this chapter.

562

Note: The text of Form ATS-N will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.
United States Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, DC 20510
FORM ATS-N
INTENTIONAL MISSTATEMENTS OR OMMISSIONS OF FACTS MAY CONSTITUTE
CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.
See 18 U.S.C.1001 and 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a)

Page 1 of _____

File No: ATSN-[acronym]-YYYY-####

(Entity name) is making this filing pursuant to the Rule 304 under the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934
Initial Form Filing
Withdrawal of Initial Form Filing
Submission Type (select one)
Rule 304(a)(1)(i)
Form ATS-N
Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(A)
Material Amendment to Form ATS-N
Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(B)
Periodic Amendment to Form ATS-N
Rule 304(a)(2)(i)(C)
Correcting Amendment to Form ATS-N
Rule 304(a)(3)
Notice of Cessation
Date NMS Stock ATS will cease to operate: mm/dd/yyyy
Provide a brief narrative description of the Amendment:

Part I: Name
1. Full Name of Registered Broker-Dealer of the NMS Stock ATS (“broker-dealer operator”) as
stated on Form BD:_________________________________________
2. Full Name of NMS Stock ATS under which business is conducted, if
any:______________________________________________________
3. Market Participant Identifier (MPID) of the NMS Stock ATS: _______
4. Is the NMS Stock ATS currently operating pursuant to a previously filed initial operation
report on Form ATS? Yes
 No
Part II – Broker Dealer Operator Registration and Contact Information
563

1. Effective date of broker-dealer registration with the Commission: mm/dd/yyyy
2. SEC File No.:

8-_______

3. CRD No.:

______

4. Full Name of the national securities association and the effective date of broker-dealer
membership with the national securities association:
Name ____________________ mm/dd/yyyy
5. Legal Status (select one)
Sole Proprietorship
Corporation
Partnership
Limited Liability Company
Other (Specify):________________
If other than a sole proprietor, please provide the following:
a) Date of Formation:

mm/dd/yyyy

b) State/Country of Formation: {pick list}
6. Physical Street Address of the NMS Stock ATS matching system:
Street:____________________________
City______________________ State __ Zip Code__________
If the broker-dealer operator is a sole proprietor and the physical street address is a
private residence, check this box:
A private residential address of a sole proprietor will not be included in publicly available versions of
this form.

7. Mailing Address:

Same as physical address

Street:____________________________
City______________________ State __ Zip Code__________
If the broker-dealer operator is a sole proprietor and the mailing address is a private
residence, check this box:
A private residential address of a sole proprietor will not be included in publicly available versions of
this form.

8. Website URL of the NMS Stock ATS___________________________________
Exhibit 1

Provide a copy of any materials currently provided to subscribers or other
persons related to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or the disclosures
on Form ATS-N (e.g., FIX protocol procedures, rules of

564

engagement/manuals, frequently asked questions, marketing materials).
Exhibit 2A

Provide a copy of the most recently filed or amended Schedule A of the
broker-dealer operator’s Form BD disclosing information related to direct
owners and executive officers.
In lieu of filing {entity} certifies that the information requested under this exhibit is
available at the Internet website below and is accurate as of the date of this filing.
URL:

Exhibit 2B

Provide a copy of the most recently filed or amended Schedule B of the
broker-dealer operator’s Form BD disclosing information related to indirect
owners.
In lieu of filing {entity} certifies that the information requested under this exhibit is
available at the Internet website below and is accurate as of the date of this filing.
URL:

Part III.

Activities of the Broker-Dealer Operator and Affiliates

565

•

Respond to each question below. Attach responses to each Item of Part III as Exhibit 3 with
the information required for each “yes” response. Label each Item appropriately and
organize responses according to Item number. For any Item or subpart of an Item that is
inapplicable, state as such.

•

For Items requesting the identity of affiliates and business units of the broker-dealer operator,
provide the name under which each affiliate or business unit conducts business (e.g., the
formal name under which a proprietary trading desk of the broker-dealer operator conducts
business) and the applicable CRD number and MPID(s) under which the affiliate or business
unit conducts business.

•

For filings made pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(i) (i.e., Form ATS-N Amendments), also attach
as Exhibit 3A a redline document to indicate additions to or deletions from any amended
Item. Items in which there is no change do not need to be included within the Exhibit 3A.

Item 1:
Non-ATS
Trading
Centers

Does the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, operate
or control any non-ATS trading center(s) that is an OTC market
maker or executes orders in NMS stocks internally by trading
as principal or crossing orders as agent (“non-ATS trading
centers”)?
If Yes:
a) Identify the non-ATS trading center(s); and
b) Describe any interaction or coordination between the
non-ATS trading center(s) identified in Item 1(a) and
the NMS Stock ATS, including:
i.

Circumstances under which subscriber orders or
other trading interest (such as quotes,
indications of interest (“IOI”), conditional
orders or messages (hereinafter collectively
referred to as “trading interest”)) sent to the
NMS Stock ATS are displayed or otherwise
made known to the non-ATS trading center(s)
identified in Item 1(a) before entering the NMS
Stock ATS;

ii. Circumstances under which subscriber orders or
other trading interest received by the brokerdealer operator or its affiliates may execute, in
whole or in part, in the non-ATS trading
center(s) identified in Item 1(a) before entering
the NMS Stock ATS; and
iii. Circumstances under which subscriber orders or
other trading interest are removed from the
NMS Stock ATS and sent to the non-ATS trading
center(s) identified in Item 1(a).

566

Yes



Item 2:
Multiple NMS
Stock ATS
Operations

Does the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, operate
one or more NMS Stock ATSs other than the NMS Stock ATS
named on this Form ATS-N?

Yes



Yes



If Yes:
a) Identify the NMS Stock ATS(s) and provide the
MPID(s); and
b) Describe any interaction or coordination between each
NMS Stock ATS(s) identified in Item 2(a) and the NMS
Stock ATS named on this Form ATS-N including:
i.

The circumstances under which subscriber
orders or other trading interest received by the
broker-dealer operator or its affiliates to be sent
to the NMS Stock ATS named on this Form ATSN may be sent to an NMS Stock ATS identified
in Item 2(a);

ii. The circumstances under which subscriber
orders or other trading interest to be sent to the
NMS Stock ATS named on this Form ATS-N are
displayed or otherwise made known in an NMS
Stock ATS identified in Item 2(a); and
iii. The circumstances under which subscriber
orders or other trading interest received by the
NMS Stock ATS named on this Form ATS-N
may be removed and sent to the NMS Stock
ATS(s) identified in Item 2(a).
Item 3:
Products or
Services
Offered to
Subscribers

Does the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, offer
subscribers any products or services used in connection with
trading on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., algorithmic trading
products, market data feeds)?
If Yes:
a) Describe the products or services, and identify the types
of subscribers (e.g., retail, institutional, professional) to
which such services or products are offered; and
b) If the terms and conditions of the services or products
are not the same for all subscribers, describe any
differences.

567

Item 4:
Arrangements
with
Unaffiliated
Trading
Centers

Does the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, have
any formal or informal arrangement with an unaffiliated
person(s), or affiliate(s) of such person(s), that operates a
trading center regarding access to the NMS Stock ATS,
including preferential routing arrangements?

Yes



Yes



Yes



If Yes:
a) Identify the person(s) and the trading center(s); and
b) Describe the terms of the arrangement(s).

Item 5:
Trading
Activities on
the NMS Stock
ATS

Does the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, enter
orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS?
If Yes:
a) Identify each affiliate and business unit of the brokerdealer operator that may enter orders or other trading
interest on the NMS Stock ATS;
b) Describe the circumstances and capacity (e.g.,
proprietary or agency) in which each affiliate and
business unit identified in Item 5(a) enters orders or
other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS;
c) Describe the manner in which by which each affiliate or
business unit identified in Item 5(a) enters orders or
other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g.,
directly through a Financial Information Exchange
(“FIX”) connection to the NMS Stock ATS, or indirectly,
by way of the broker-dealer operator’s SOR (or similar
functionality), algorithm, intermediate application, or
sales desk); and
d) Describe any means by which a subscriber can be
excluded from interacting or trading with orders or
other trading interest of the broker-dealer operator or
its affiliates on the NMS Stock ATS.

Item 6:
Smart Order
Router
(“SOR”) (or
Similar
Functionality)
or Algorithms

Does the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates, use a
SOR(s) (or similar functionality), an algorithm(s), or both to
send or receive subscriber orders or other trading interest to or
from the NMS Stock ATS?
If Yes:
a) Identify the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or
algorithm(s) and identify the person(s) that operates
the SOR(s) (or similar functionality) and algorithm(s),
if other than the broker-dealer operator;
b) Describe the interaction or coordination between the

568

SOR(s) (or similar functionality) or algorithm(s)
identified in Item 6(a) and the NMS Stock ATS,
including any information or messages about orders or
other trading interest (e.g., IOIs) that the SOR(s) (or
similar functionality) or algorithm(s) send or receive to
or from the NMS Stock ATS and the circumstances
under which such information may be shared with any
person.
Item 7:
Shared
Employees of
the NMS Stock
ATS

Does any employee of the broker-dealer operator that services
the operations of the NMS Stock ATS also service any other
business unit(s) or any affiliate(s) of the broker-dealer operator
(“shared employee”)?

Yes



Yes



If Yes:
a) Identify the business unit(s) and/or the affiliate(s) of
the broker-dealer operator to which the shared
employee(s) provides services and identify the
position(s) or title(s) that the shared employee(s) holds
in the business unit(s) and/or affiliate(s) of the brokerdealer operator; and
b) Describe the roles and responsibilities of the shared
employee(s) at the NMS Stock ATS and the business
unit(s) and/or affiliate(s) of the broker-dealer operator.

Item 8:
Service
Providers to
the NMS Stock
ATS

Is any operation, service, or function of the NMS Stock ATS
performed by any person(s) other than the broker-dealer
operator of the NMS Stock ATS?
If Yes:
a) Identify the person(s) (in the case of a natural person,
identify only the person’s position or title) performing
the operation, service, or function and note whether this
service provider(s) is an affiliate of the broker-dealer, if
applicable;
b) Describe the operation, service, or function that the
person(s) identified in Item 8(a) provides and describe
the role and responsibilities of that person(s); and
c) State whether or not the person(s) identified in Item
8(a), or any of its affiliates, may enter orders or other
trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS, and, if so,
describe the circumstances and means by which such
orders or other trading interest are entered on the NMS
Stock ATS.

569

Item 9:

Is there any service, functionality, or procedure of the NMS
Stock ATS that is available or applies to the broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates, that is not available or does not apply
to a subscriber(s) to the NMS Stock ATS?

Differences in
Availability of
Services,
Functionalities If Yes:
or Procedures
a) Identify the service, functionality, or procedure; and

b) Describe the service, functionality, or procedure that is
available to the broker-dealer operator or its affiliates
but is not available or does not apply to a subscriber(s)
to the NMS Stock ATS.
Item 10:
Confidential
Treatment of
Trading
Information

Describe the written safeguards and written procedures to
protect the confidential trading information of subscribers to
the NMS Stock ATS.
Including:
a) Describe the means by which a subscriber can consent
or withdraw consent to the disclosure of confidential
trading information to any persons (including the
broker-dealer operator and any of its affiliates);
b) Identify the positions or titles of any persons that have
access to confidential trading information; describe the
confidential trading information to which the persons
have access; and describe the circumstances under
which the persons can access confidential trading
information;
c) Describe the written standards controlling employees of
the NMS Stock ATS that trade for employees’ accounts;
and
d) Describe the written oversight procedures to ensure
that the safeguards and procedures described above are
implemented and followed.

570

Yes



Part IV.

The NMS Stock ATS Manner of Operations

•

Respond to the questions below. Attach responses to each Item to Part IV as Exhibit 4 with
the information required for each disclosure. Label each Item appropriately and organize
responses according to Item number. For any Item or subpart of an Item that is inapplicable,
state as such.

•

For filings made pursuant to Rule 304(a)(2)(i) (i.e., Form ATS-N Amendments), also attach
as Exhibit 4A a redline document to indicate additions to or deletions from any Item which is
being amended. Items in which there is no change do not need to be included within the
Exhibit 4A

Item 1:
Subscribers

a) Eligibility: Describe any eligibility requirements to gain access to the
services of the NMS Stock ATS. If the eligibility requirements are not
the same for all subscribers and persons, describe any differences.
b) Terms and Conditions of Use: Describe the terms and conditions of
any contractual agreements for granting access to the NMS Stock
ATS for the purpose of effecting transactions in securities or for
submitting, disseminating, or displaying orders on the NMS Stock
ATS. State whether these contractual agreements are written. If the
terms or conditions of any contractual agreements are not the same
for all subscribers and persons, describe any differences.
c) Types of Subscribers: Describe the types of subscribers and other
persons that use the services of the NMS Stock ATS (e.g.,
institutional investors, retail investors, broker-dealers, proprietary
trading firms). State whether the NMS Stock ATS accepts nonbroker-dealers as subscribers to the ATS. Describe any criteria for
distinguishing among types of subscribers, classes of subscribers, or
other persons.
d) Liquidity Providers: Describe any formal or informal arrangement
the NMS Stock ATS has with a subscriber(s) or person(s) to provide
liquidity to the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., undertaking to buy or sell
continuously, or to meet specified thresholds of trading or quoting
activity). Describe the terms and conditions of each arrangement
and identify any liquidity providers that are affiliates of the brokerdealer operator.
e) Limitation and Denial of Services: Describe the circumstances by
which access to the NMS Stock ATS for a subscriber or other person
may be limited or denied, and describe any procedures or standards
that are used to determine such action. If the circumstances,
procedures, or standards are not applicable to all subscribers and
persons, describe any differences.

Item 2:

a) Hours: Provide the days and hours of operation of the NMS Stock

571

Hours of
Operations

ATS, including the times when orders or other trading interest are
entered on the NMS Stock ATS and the time when pre-opening or
after-hours trading occur.
b) Application: If the times when orders or other trading interest are
entered on the NMS Stock ATS are not the same for all subscribers
and persons, describe any differences.

Item 3:
Types of
Orders

a) Order Types and Modifiers: Describe any types of orders that are
entered on the NMS Stock ATS, their characteristics, operations, and
how they are handled on the NMS Stock ATS, including:
i. priority for each order type, including the order type’s priority
upon order entry and any subsequent change to priority (if
applicable); whether the order type can receive a new time
stamp; the order type’s priority vis-à-vis other orders on the
book due to changes in the NBBO or other reference price; and
any instance in which the order type could lose execution
priority to a later arriving order at the same price;
ii. conditions for each order type, including any price conditions,
including how the order type is ranked and how price conditions
affect the rank and price at which it can be executed; conditions
on the display or non-display of an order; or conditions on
executability and routability;
iii. order types designed not to remove liquidity (e.g., post-only
orders), including what occurs when such order is marketable
against trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS when received;
iv. order types that adjust their price as changes to the order book
occur (e.g., price sliding orders or pegged orders) or have a
discretionary range, including an order’s rank and price upon
order entry and whether such prices or rank may change based
on the NBBO or other market conditions when using such order
type; when the order type is executable and at what price the
execution would occur; whether the price at which the order type
can be executed ever changes; and if the order type can operate
in different ways, the default operation of the order type;
v. the time-in-force instructions that can be used or not used with
each order type;
vi. the availability of order types across all forms of connectivity to
the NMS Stock ATS and differences, if any, between the
availability of an order type across those forms of connectivity;
vii. whether an order type is eligible for routing to other trading
centers, including, if the order type is routable, whether it can be
used with any routing services offered; and
viii. the circumstances under which order types may be combined
with a time-in-force or another order type, modified, replaced,
canceled, rejected, or removed from the NMS Stock ATS.
b) Application: If the availability of order types and their terms and
conditions are not the same for all subscribers and persons, describe
any differences.

572

c) Order Size Requirements and Odd-Lot Orders: Describe any
requirements and handling procedures for minimum order sizes,
odd-lot orders, or mixed-lot orders. If the requirements and
handling procedures for minimum order sizes or, odd lot orders, or
mixed lot orders are not the same for all subscribers and persons,
describe any differences.
d) Indications of Interest (“IOI”) and Conditional Orders: Describe
any messages sent to or received by the NMS Stock ATS indicating
trading interest (e.g., IOIs, actionable IOIs, or conditional orders),
including the information contained in the message, the means
under which messages are transmitted, the circumstances in which
messages are transmitted (e.g., automatically by the NMS Stock ATS,
or upon the subscriber’s request), and the circumstances in which
they may result in an execution on the NMS Stock ATS. If the terms
and conditions regarding these messages, indications of interests,
and conditional orders are not the same for all subscribers and
persons, describe any differences.
Item 4:
Connectivity,
Order Entry,
and Colocation

a) Connectivity and Order Entry: Describe the means by which
subscribers or other persons connect to the NMS Stock ATS and
enter orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g.,
directly, through a Financial Information eXchange (“FIX”)
connection to the ATS, or indirectly, through the broker-dealer
operator’s SOR, or any intermediate functionality, algorithm, or sales
desk). If the terms and conditions for connecting and entering
orders or other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS are not the
same for all subscribers and persons, describe any differences.
b) Co-Location: Describe any co-location services or any other means
by which any subscriber or other persons may enhance the speed by
which to send or receive orders, trading interest, or messages to or
from the NMS Stock ATS. Describe the terms and conditions of colocation services. If the terms and conditions of the co-location
services are not the same for all subscribers and persons, describe
any differences.

Item 5:
Segmentation
of Order Flow
and Notice
About
Segmentation

a) Categories: Describe any segmentation of orders or other trading
interest on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., classification by type of
participant, source, nature of trading activity) and describe the
segmentation categories, the criteria used to segment these
categories, and procedures for determining, evaluating, and
changing segmented categories. If the segmented categories, the
criteria used to segment these categories, and any procedures for
determining, evaluating or changing segmented categories are not
the same for all subscribers and persons, describe any differences.
b) Notice about Segmentation: State whether the NMS Stock ATS
notifies subscribers or persons about the segmentation category that
a subscriber or a person is assigned. Describe any notice provided to

573

subscribers or persons about the segmentation category that they are
assigned and the segmentation identified in 5(a), including the
content of any notice and the means by which any notice is
communicated. If the notice is not the same for all subscribers and
persons, describe any differences.
c) Order Preferencing: Describe any means and the circumstances by
which a subscriber, the broker-dealer operator, or any of its affiliates
may designate an order or trading interest submitted to the NMS
Stock ATS to interact or not to interact with specific orders, trading
interest, or persons on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g., designating an
order or trading interest to be executed against a specific subscriber)
and how such designations affect order priority and interaction.
Item 6:
Display of
Order and
Trading
Interest

a) Display: Describe any means and circumstances by which orders or
other trading interest on the NMS Stock ATS are displayed or made
known outside the NMS Stock ATS and the information about the
orders and trading interest that are displayed. If the display of
orders or other trading interest is not the same for all subscribers
and persons, describe any differences.
b) Recipients: Identify the subscriber(s) or person(s) (in the case of a
natural person, identify only the person’s position or title) to whom
the orders and trading interest are displayed or otherwise made
known.

Item 7:
Trading
Services

a) Matching Methodology: Describe the means or facilities used by the
NMS Stock ATS to bring together the orders of multiple buyers and
sellers, including the structure of the market (e.g., crossing system,
auction market, limit order matching book). If the use of these
means or facilities are not the same for all subscribers and persons,
describe any differences.
b) Order Interaction Rules: Describe the established, nondiscretionary methods that dictate the terms of trading among
multiple buyers and sellers on the facilities of the NMS Stock ATS,
including rules and procedures governing the priority, pricing
methodologies, allocation, matching, and execution of orders and
other trading interest. If the rules and procedures are not the same
for all subscribers and persons, describe any differences.
c) Other Trading Procedures: Describe any trading procedures related
to price protection mechanisms, short sales, locked-crossed markets,
the handling of execution errors, time-stamping of orders and
executions, or price improvement functionality. If the trading
procedures are not the same for all subscribers and persons, describe
any differences.

Item 8:
Suspension of
Trading,

a) Suspension of Trading, System Disruption or Malfunction:
Describe any procedures governing trading in the event the NMS
Stock ATS suspends trading or experiences a system disruption or
system malfunction. If the procedures governing trading during a

574

System
Disruption or
Malfunction
Item 9:
Opening,
Reopening,
and Closing
Processes, and
After Hours
Procedures

suspension or system disruption or malfunction are not the same for
all subscribers and persons, describe any differences.

a) Opening and Reopening Processes: Describe any opening and
reopening processes, including how orders or other trading interest
are matched and executed prior to the start of regular trading hours
or following a stoppage of trading in a security during regular trading
hours and how unexecuted orders or other trading interest are
handled at the time the NMS Stock ATS begins regular trading at the
start of regular trading hours or following a stoppage of trading in a
security during regular trading hours. Describe any differences
between pre-opening executions, executions following a stoppage of
trading in a security during regular trading hours, and executions
during regular trading hours.
b) Closing Process: Describe any closing process, including how
unexecuted orders or other trading interest are handled at the close
of regular trading. Describe any differences between the closing
executions and executions during regular trading hours.
c) After-Hours Trading: Describe any after-hours trading procedures,
including how orders and trading interest are matched and executed
during after-hours trading. Describe any differences between the
after-hours executions and executions during regular trading hours.

Item 10:
Outbound
Routing

a) Routing: Describe the circumstances under which orders or other
trading interest are routed from the NMS Stock ATS to another
trading center, including whether outbound routing occurs at the
affirmative instruction of the subscriber or at the discretion of the
broker-dealer operator, and the means by which routing is
performed (e.g., a third party or order management system or a SOR
(or similar functionality) or algorithm of the broker-dealer operator
or any of its affiliates).
b) Application: If the means by which orders or other trading interest
are routed from the NMS Stock ATS are not the same for all
subscribers and persons, describe any differences.

Item 11:
Market Data

a) Market Data: Describe the market data used by the NMS Stock ATS
and the source of that market data (e.g., market data feeds
disseminated by the consolidated data processor (“SIP”) and market
data feeds disseminated directly by an exchange or other trading
center or third-party vendor of market data).
b) Usage: Describe the specific purpose for which market data is used
by the NMS Stock ATS, including how market data is used to
determine the NBBO, protected quotes, pricing of orders and
executions, and routing destinations.

Item 12:
Fees

a) Fees: Describe any fees, rebates, or other charges of the NMS Stock
ATS (e.g., connectivity fees, subscription fees, execution fees, volume
discounts) and provide the range (e.g., high and low) of such fees,

575

rebates, or other charges.
b) Application: If the fees, rebates, or other charges of the NMS Stock
ATS are not the same for all subscribers and persons, describe any
differences.
Item 13:
Trade
Reporting,
Clearance and
Settlement

Item 14:
Order Display
and Execution
Access

a) Trade Reporting: Describe any arrangements or procedures for
reporting transactions on the NMS Stock ATS. If the trade reporting
procedures are not the same for all subscribers and persons, describe
any differences.
b) Clearance and Settlement: Describe any arrangements or
procedures undertaken by the NMS Stock ATS to facilitate the
clearance and settlement of transactions on the NMS Stock ATS (e.g.,
whether the NMS Stock ATS becomes a counterparty, whether it
submits trades to a registered clearing agency, or whether it requires
subscribers to have arrangements with a clearing firm). If the
clearance and settlement procedures are not the same for all
subscribers and persons, describe any differences.
If the NMS Stock ATS displays orders in an NMS stock to any person other
than employees of the NMS Stock ATS and executed 5% or more of the
average daily trading volume in that NMS stock as reported by an effective
transaction reporting plan for four of the preceding six calendar months:
a) Provide the ticker symbol for each NMS stock displayed for each of
the last 6 calendar months;
b) Describe the manner in which the NMS Stock ATS displays such
orders on a national securities exchange or through a national
securities association; and
c) Describe how the NMS Stock ATS provides access to such orders
displayed in the national market system equivalent to the access to
other orders displayed on that exchange or association.

Item 15:
Fair Access

If the NMS Stock ATS executed 5% or more of the average daily trading
volume in an NMS stock as reported by an effective transaction reporting
plan for four of the preceding six calendar months:
a) Provide the ticker symbol for each NMS stock for each of the last 6
calendar months; and
b) Describe the written standards for granting access to trading on the
NMS Stock ATS.

576

Item 16:
Market
Quality
Statistics
Published or
Provided to
Subscribers

If the NMS Stock ATS publishes or otherwise provides to one or more
subscribers aggregate platform-wide order flow and execution statistics of
the NMS Stock ATS that are not otherwise required disclosures under 17
CFR § 242.605:
a) List and describe the categories or metrics of aggregate platformwide order flow and execution statistics published or provided;

b) Describe any criteria or methodology used to calculate aggregate
platform-wide order flow and execution statistics; and

c) Attach as Exhibit 5 the most recent disclosure of aggregate platform-

wide order flow and execution statistics published or provided to one
or more subscribers for each category or metric as of the end of the
calendar quarter.

Part V:

Contact Information, Signature Block, and Consent to Service

Provide the following information of the person at {the name of the NMS Stock ATS} prepared
to respond to questions for this submission:
First Name:

Last Name:

Title:
E-Mail:

Telephone:

The {name of the NMS Stock ATS} consents that service of any civil action brought by, or
notice of any proceeding before, the SEC or a self-regulatory organizations in connection with
the alternative trading system’s activities may be given by registered or certified mail or email to
the contact employee at the primary street address or email address, or mailing address if
different, given in Part I above. The undersigned, being first duly sworn, deposes and says that
he/she has executed this form on behalf of, and with the authority of, said alternative trading
system. The undersigned and {name of NMS Stock ATS} represents that the information and
statements contained herein, including exhibits, schedules, or other documents attached hereto,
and other information filed herewith, all of which are made a part hereof, are current, true, and
complete.
Date {auto fill}
By: _______________________

{Name of NMS Stock ATS}
Title____________________________

(Digital sign)

577

FORM ATS-N INSTRUCTIONS
A. GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS:
•

Form ATS-N is a public reporting form that is designed to provide the public and the
Commission with information about the operations of the NMS Stock ATS and the
activities of its broker-dealer operator and its affiliates. Form ATS-N is to be used by an
NMS Stock ATS to qualify for the exemption from the definition of an “exchange”
pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 3a1-1(a)(2), for which no other form is authorized or
prescribed.

•

An NMS Stock ATS must respond to each item, as applicable, in detail and disclose
information that is accurate, current, and complete. An NMS Stock ATS must provide all
the information required by the form, including the exhibits, and must present the
information in a clear and comprehensible manner. A filing that is incomplete or
similarly deficient may be returned to the NMS Stock ATS. Any filing so returned shall
for all purposes be deemed not to have been filed with the Commission. See also Rule 03 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.0-3).

•

A separate Form ATS-N is required for each NMS Stock ATS operated by the same
broker-dealer operator.

B. WHEN TO FILE FORM ATS-N
•

Form ATS-N: Prior to commencing operations, an NMS Stock ATS shall file a Form
ATS-N and the Form ATS-N must be declared effective by the Commission. If the NMS
Stock ATS is operating pursuant to a previously filed initial operation report on Form
ATS as of the effective date of proposed Rule 304, such NMS Stock ATS shall file with
the Commission a Form ATS-N no later than 120 calendar days after such effective date.

•

Form ATS-N Amendment: An NMS Stock ATS shall amend an effective Form ATS-N:
(1) at least 30 calendar days prior to the date of implementation of a material change to
the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or to the activities of the broker-dealer operator or
its affiliates that are subject to disclosure on Form ATS-N; (2) within 30 calendar days
after the end of each calendar quarter to correct any other information that has become
inaccurate for any reason and has not been previously reported to the Commission as a
Form ATS-N Amendment; or (3) promptly, to correct information in any previous
disclosure on Form ATS-N, after discovery that any information filed under paragraphs
(a)(1)(i) or (a)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of proposed Rule 304 was inaccurate or incomplete when
filed.

•

Notice of Cessation: An NMS Stock ATS shall notice its cessation of operations on
Form ATS-N at least 10 business days before the date the NMS Stock ATS will cease to
operate as an NMS Stock ATS.
578

•

Withdrawal: If an NMS Stock ATS determines to withdraw a Form ATS-N, it must
select the appropriate check box and provide the correct file number to withdraw the
submission.

C. HOW TO FILE A FORM ATS-N
•

Any report required to be submitted pursuant to Rule 304 of Regulation ATS shall be
filed in an electronic format through the electronic form filing system (“EFFS”), a secure
website operated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”).
Documents filed through the EFFS system must be in a text-searchable format without
the use of optical character recognition.

•

A duly authorized individual of the NMS Stock ATS shall electronically sign the
completed Form ATS-N. In addition, a duly authorized individual of the NMS Stock
ATS shall manually sign one copy of the completed Form ATS-N, and the manually
signed signature page shall be preserved pursuant to the requirements of proposed Rule
303 of Regulation ATS.

D. CONTACT INFORMATION
•

The individual listed on the NMS Stock ATS’s response to Part V of Form ATS-N as the
contact representative must be authorized to receive all incoming communications and be
responsible for disseminating that information, as necessary, within the NMS Stock ATS.

E. RECORDKEEPING
•

A copy of this Form ATS-N must be retained by the NMS Stock ATS and made available
for inspection upon request of the SEC.

F. PAPERWORK REDUCTION ACT DISCLOSURE
•

Form ATS-N requires an NMS Stock ATS to provide the Commission with certain
information regarding: (1) the operation of the NMS Stock ATS and the activities of the
broker-dealer operator and its affiliates; (2) material and other changes to the operation of
the NMS Stock ATS; and (3) notice upon ceasing operation of the alternative trading
system. Form ATS-N is intended to provide the public with information about the
operations of the NMS Stock ATS and the activities of the broker-dealer operator and its
affiliates so that they may make an informed decision as to whether to participate on the
NMS Stock ATS. In addition, the Form ATS-N is intended to provide the Commission
with information to permit it to carry out its market oversight and investor protection
functions.

•

The information provided on Form ATS-N will help enable the Commission to determine
whether an NMS Stock ATS is in compliance with the federal securities laws and the
579

rules or regulations thereunder, including Regulation ATS. An NMS Stock ATS must:
(1) file Form ATS-N prior to commencing operations; (2) file a Form ATS-N
Amendment at least 30 calendar days prior to the date of implementation of a material
change to the operations of the NMS Stock ATS or to the activities of the broker-dealer
operator or its affiliates that are subject to disclosure on Form ATS-N; (3) file a Form
ATS-N Amendment within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter to
correct any other information that has become inaccurate for any reason and has not been
previously reported to the Commission on Form ATS-N; (4) file a Form ATS-N
Amendment promptly to correct information in any previous disclosure on a Form ATSN or a Form ATS-N Amendment after discovery that any information filed was
inaccurate or incomplete when filed; and (5) notice its cessation of operations at least 10
business days before the date the NMS Stock ATS ceases to operate as an NMS Stock
ATS.
•

This collection of information will be reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget
in accordance with the clearance requirements of 44 U.S.C. 3507. An agency may not
conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information
unless it displays a currently valid control number. The Commission estimates that that
an NMS Stock ATS will spend approximately 141.3 hours completing the Form ATS-N,
approximately 9.5 hours preparing each amendment to Form ATS-N, and approximately
2 hours preparing a notice of cessation on Form ATS-N. Any member of the public may
direct to the Commission any comments concerning the accuracy of this burden estimate
and any suggestions for reducing this burden.

G. EXPLANATION OF TERMS
The following terms are defined for purposes of Form ATS-N.
•

AFFILIATE: Shall mean, with respect to a specified person, any person that, directly or
indirectly, controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by, the specified
person.

•

ALTERNATIVE TRADING SYSTEM: Shall mean any organization, association,
person, group of persons, or system: (1) that constitutes, maintains, or provides a market
place or facilities for bringing together purchasers and sellers of securities or for
otherwise performing with respect to securities the functions commonly performed by a
stock exchange within the meaning of Rule 3b-16 under the Exchange Act; and (2) that
does not (i) set rules governing the conduct of subscribers other than the conduct of such
subscribers’ trading on such organization, association, person, group of persons, or
system, or (ii) discipline subscribers other than by exclusion from trading. 17 CFR
242.300(a).

•

BROKER-DEALER OPERATOR: Shall mean the registered broker-dealer of the
NMS Stock ATS pursuant to 17 CFR 242.301(b)(1).

580

•

CONTROL: Shall mean the power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or
policies of the broker-dealer of an alternative trading system, whether through ownership
of securities, by contract, or otherwise. A person is presumed to control the broker-dealer
of an alternative trading system if that person: (1) is a director, general partner, or officer
exercising executive responsibility (or having similar status or performing similar
functions); (2) directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25 percent or more of a class of
voting securities or has the power to sell or direct the sale of 25 percent or more of a class
of voting securities of the broker-dealer of the alternative trading system; or (3) in the
case of a partnership, has contributed, or has the right to receive upon dissolution, 25
percent or more of the capital of the broker-dealer of the alternative trading system.

•

NMS SECURITY: Shall mean any security or class of securities for which transaction
reports are collected, processed, and made available pursuant to an effective transaction
reporting plan, or an effective national market system plan for reporting transactions in
listed options. 17 CFR 242.600(b)(46).

•

NMS STOCK: Shall mean any NMS security other than an option. 17 CFR
242.600(b)(47).

•

NMS STOCK ATS: Shall mean an alternative trading system, as defined in Rule 300(a)
under the Exchange Act, that facilitates transactions in NMS stocks, as defined in Rule
300(g) under the Exchange Act. [Proposed] 17 CFR 242.300(k).

•

ORDER: Shall mean any firm indication of a willingness to buy or sell a security as
either principal or agent, including any bid or offer quotation, market order, limit order or
other priced order. 17 CFR 242.300(e).

•

PERSON: Shall mean a natural person or a company. 15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(28).

•

SUBSCRIBER: Shall mean any person that has entered into a contractual agreement
with an alternative trading system to access an alternative trading system for the purpose
of effecting transactions in securities, or for submitting, disseminating or displaying
orders on such alternative trading system, including a customer, member, user, or
participant in an alternative trading system. A subscriber, however, shall not include a
national securities exchange or association. 17 CFR 242.300(b).

By the Commission

Brent J. Fields
Secretary
Dated: November 18, 2015
581

