UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15507

In the Matter of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.,

PLAN OF
DISTRIBUTION

Respondent.

I.

OVERVIEW

The Division of Enforcement submits this Plan of Distribution (the “Distribution Plan”)
to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) pursuant to Rule
1101 of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans (“Rules”), 17 C.F.R. §
201.1101. As described more specifically below, the Distribution Plan proposes to utilize civil
money penalties paid by JPMorgan Chase & Co. (“Respondent” or “JPM”) to compensate
investors harmed when JPM failed to disclose accurately in public filings made with the
Commission the true amount of trading losses it suffered in the first quarter of 2012, and the
effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures.
Beneficial owner investors who will be eligible for a distribution must have purchased
and/or held eligible securities, defined in Paragraph 11.i. below, during the time period
delineated in the Plan of Allocation described in Paragraphs 38-43 below, and met all other
requirements of the Distribution Plan.
The Distribution Plan is subject to approval by the Commission and the Commission
retains jurisdiction over its implementation.

1

II.

BACKGROUND
1. On September 19, 2013, the Commission issued an Order Instituting Cease-andDesist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”).1 In the Order,
the Commission found that the Respondent violated federal securities laws when it
made material misstatements in its public filings with the Commission. Specifically,
the Commission found that JPM made misstatements in its public filings regarding: a)
the true amount of its losses in the first quarter of 2012 from positions held in the
JPM Chief Investment Office’s (“CIO”) Synthetic Credit Portfolio; and b) the
effectiveness of its disclosure controls and procedures. Respondent filed a Form 8-K
on April 13, 2012, containing its earnings release for the first quarter of 2012. A
misstatement concerning Respondent’s trading losses suffered during the first quarter
of 2012 resulted in reported earnings being overstated. On May 10, 2012, after
trading had closed, Respondent filed a Form 10-Q for the first quarter and held an
analyst call. Respondent disclosed it had suffered approximately $2 billion in trading
losses since the start of the second quarter on the CIO’s Synthetic Credit Portfolio
positions, and that there could be additional losses. However, the May 10 disclosures
were not fully effective as corrective disclosure because the 10-Q (a) understated the
size of the losses as of quarter end and b) failed to disclose that JPM’s disclosure
controls and procedures were not effective.
2. The Commission ordered JPM to pay a civil money penalty in the amount of
$200,000,000. Respondent timely paid the total $200,000,000 ordered by the
Commission on September 19, 2013. In addition, JPM agreed to pay all reasonable
administrative costs and expenses of any distribution, including the fees and expenses
of a tax administrator, within thirty (30) days after receipt of an invoice for such
services.2
3. The Commission established a Fair Fund in the amount of $200,000,000 on March 5,
2014 pursuant to Section 308(a) of Sarbanes-Oxley for distribution to injured
investors.3
4. The Fair Fund has been deposited at the United States Treasury Department’s Bureau
of the Fiscal Service (“BFS”) for investment. Other than potential interest income
from the BFS investment, the Commission does not anticipate that the Fair Fund will
receive additional funds. All BFS fees will be paid from the Fair Fund.

1

See Exchange Act Rel. No. 70458 (September 19, 2013).
Id.
3
See Order Establishing a Fair Fund, Exchange Act Rel. No. 71654 (March 5, 2014).
2

2

A. Fund Administrator
5. The Commission has appointed RCB Fund Services, LLC as the fund plan
administrator (the “Administrator”).4
6. The Administrator has obtained a bond in the manner prescribed in Rule 1105(c) in
the amount of $200,000,000.
7. The Administrator will be entitled to reasonable administrative costs and expenses in
connection with the administration and distribution of the Fair Fund (including any
such costs and expenses incurred by agents, consultants or third parties retained, after
consultation with and approval of the Commission staff, by the Administrator in
furtherance of its duties). The Administrator will invoice all costs and expenses for
the administration and distribution of the Fair Fund directly to the Respondent. A
copy of the invoice will be provided to the Commission staff.
8. The Administrator will be responsible for administering the Fair Fund in accordance
with the Distribution Plan. This will include, among other things, taking reasonable
steps to identify and contact Potential Claimants as defined in Paragraph 11.p. below;
obtaining accurate mailing information for Potential Claimants; establishing a website
and staffing a call center to address inquiries during the claims process; developing a
claims database; preparing accountings; cooperating with any tax administrator
appointed by the Commission to satisfy any tax liabilities and to ensure compliance
with income tax reporting requirements; advising Potential Claimants of deficiency in
claims and providing an opportunity to cure any documentary defects; taking
antifraud measures, such as identifying false, ineligible and overstated claims; making
determinations under the criteria established herein as to Potential Claimant
eligibility; advising Potential Claimants of final claim determinations; and disbursing
the Fair Fund in accordance with this Distribution Plan.
B. Tax Administrator
9. The Commission has appointed Damasco & Associates, LLP as the Tax
Administrator of the Fair Fund (the “Tax Administrator”).5 The Tax Administrator is
required to administer the Fair Fund as a Qualified Settlement Fund under Section
468B (g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. §468B (g), and related regulations,
26 C.F.R. §§1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5. The Tax Administrator is responsible for
4
5

See Exchange Act Rel. No. 71825 (March 27, 2014).
See Order Appointing Tax Administrator, Exchange Act Rel. No. 70615 (October 4, 2013).

3

all income tax related reporting requirements including the preparation and filing of
tax returns. The Administrator will cooperate with the Tax Administrator in
providing any information necessary for income tax compliance.
10. Tax compliance fees and costs will be paid by JPM as part of the cost of the
administration of the Fair Fund. Any taxes on interest earned by the Fair Fund will
be paid by the Fair Fund.
III.

DEFINITIONS
11. As used in this Distribution Plan, the following definitions will apply:
a. “Claim Form” means the form designed by the Administrator for the filing
of claims in accordance with the terms of this Distribution Plan. The claim
form will require, at a minimum, sufficient documentation reflecting any
Potential Claimant’s purchases and dispositions of Eligible Securities during
the Relevant Period, and the tax identification number of the Potential
Claimant.
b. “Claims Packet” means the materials relevant to submitting a claim that may
be provided to Potential Claimants known to the Administrator or to those
who request such materials through a website or other appropriate delivery
mechanisms. These materials will include a copy of the Fair Fund Notice and
Claim Form (together with instructions for completion of the Claim Form).
c. “Days” means calendar days, unless otherwise specified herein.
d. “Determination Notice” means the notice sent by the Administrator to all
Potential Claimants that submitted a Claim Form. The Determination Notice
will state the Administrator’s determination of the validity (eligible, partially
or wholly deficient, or ineligible) and amount of the claim of the Potential
Claimant. The Determination Notice will provide to each Potential Claimant
whose claim is deficient, in whole or in part, the reason(s) for the deficiency,
notify the Potential Claimant of the opportunity to cure such deficiency, and
provide instructions regarding what is required to do so. In the event the
claim is denied, the Determination Notice will state the reason for such denial
and notify the Potential Claimant of their opportunity to request
reconsideration of their claim.
e. “Distribution Payment” means a payment to an Eligible Claimant in
accordance with the terms of this Distribution Plan.
f. “Distribution Plan” means this Distribution Plan in the form approved by the
Commission.
g. “Eligible Claimant” means a Potential Claimant who is finally determined by
the Administrator to be eligible for a Distribution Payment from the Fair Fund
4

h.

i.

j.

k.

as a result of transactions in Eligible Securities during the Relevant Period.
Eligible Claimants do not include:
i. Respondent and any person who served from January 1, 2012 through
the end of the Relevant Period as an officer or director of JPM6, and
any assigns, creditors, heirs, distributees, spouses, parents, dependent
children or controlled entities of any of the foregoing persons or
entities;
ii. Any defendant in SEC v. Martin-Artajo & Grout, 1:13-cv-05677-GBD
(SDNY);
iii. Any Person who, as of the claims filing deadline, has been the subject
of criminal charges related to the violations found in the Order or any
related Commission action;
iv. The Administrator, its employees, and those persons assisting the
Administrator in its role as the Administrator;
v. Any affiliates7, assigns, creditors, heirs, distributees, spouses, parents,
dependent children or controlled entities of any of the foregoing
persons or entities described in g.ii.-g.iv. hereof; and/or
vi. Any assignee of another Person’s right to obtain a recovery in the
Commission’s action against JPM, provided, however, that this
provision shall not be construed to exclude those Persons who
obtained such a right by gift, inheritance or devise.
“Eligible Loss Amount” means the amount of loss an Eligible Claimant has
incurred through the investment in Eligible Securities during the Relevant
Period, to be calculated in accordance with the Plan of Allocation.
“Eligible Securities” refers to shares of JPM common stock listed on a U.S.
exchange and registered with the Commission. Transactions in JPM common
stock during the Relevant Period that are pursuant to, or in connection with, a
swap, an option or other derivative will not be eligible for a recovery.
“Fair Fund” means the $200,000,000 fund created by the Commission for the
benefit of investors harmed by Respondent’s violations discussed in the
Order, plus any interest accrued from the BFS or escrow investments.
“Fair Fund Notice” means a written notice from the Administrator to
Potential Claimants informing them of the Fair Fund and its eligibility
requirements, and explaining how to submit a claim. The notice will both be
mailed and published pursuant to Paragraphs 14 and 15, below.

An “officer” excluded under this paragraph is any officer of JPM (not including any JPM subsidiaries or affiliates)
required to file a Form 3, 4, or 5 with the Commission pursuant to Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 to report transactions in Eligible Securities during the 2012 calendar year.
7
As used herein, “Affiliate” shall have the meaning described in Section 101(2) of the United States Bankruptcy
Code, 11 U.S.C. § 101 et seq.
6

5

l. “Final Determination Notice” means the Administrator’s written reply to
each Potential Claimant who timely responded to the Determination Notice in
an effort to cure a deficiency or seek reconsideration of a rejected claim. The
Final Determination Notice will constitute the Administrator’s final ruling
regarding the status of the claim.
m. “Net Fair Fund” means the assets of the Fair Fund, less any amounts
expended by the Fair Fund, plus any investment income.
n. “Person” means natural individuals as well as legal entities such as
corporations, partnerships, or a limited liability company.
o. “Plan of Allocation” means the methodology by which a Potential Claimant’s
Eligible Loss Amount is calculated. The Plan of Allocation is located in
Paragraphs 38 through 43 below.
p. “Potential Claimants” means those Persons, or their lawful successors,
identified by the Administrator as having possible claims to recover from the
Fair Fund under the Distribution Plan, or Persons asserting that they have
possible claims to recover from the Fair Fund under the Distribution Plan.
q. “Relevant Period” means the period of time commencing on April 13, 2012
and continuing through May 20, 2012.
IV.

ADMINISTRATION OF THE FAIR FUND

A. Identification of and Notification to Claimants
12. The Administrator will, insofar as practicable, use its best efforts to identify Potential
Claimants from a review of trading records, account information provided by the
Respondent, registered broker-dealers and investment advisors, and any other source
available to them. The Administrator may also engage a third-party firm, after
consultation with and approval of the Commission staff, to assist in identifying
Potential Claimants to maximize the participation rate of JPM investors in the Fair
Fund.
13. The Administrator will design and submit a Claims Packet, including a Fair Fund
Notice and Claim Form, to the Commission staff for review and approval.
14. Within sixty days (60) after Commission approval of the Distribution Plan, the
Administrator will send an initial mailing of the Fair Fund Notice to all Potential
Claimants known to the Administrator. Each Fair Fund Notice will notify the
Potential Claimant of the Fair Fund, generally describe the Fair Fund’s claim and
distribution processes, explain how to obtain a copy of the approved Distribution Plan

6

and Claim Form by request or from the Fair Fund website, and identify ways to
submit a claim.
15. The Administrator will publish a notice of the Fair Fund on the internet and/or in
print media in a manner deemed appropriate by the Administrator and not
unacceptable to the Commission staff. The notice publication will include, at a
minimum, a statement that the Fair Fund relates to investments in Eligible Securities,
a brief description of eligibility requirements, and instructions for obtaining and
submitting a Claim Form. The first notice will appear within ten (10) days of the
initial mailing of the Fair Fund Notice.
16. The Administrator will establish and maintain a website devoted solely to the Fair
Fund. The Fair Fund website, located at www.jpmsecfund.com, will make available
a copy of the approved Distribution Plan, provide information regarding the claims
process and eligibility requirements for participation in the Fair Fund in the form of
frequently asked questions, include a copy of a Claim Form and related materials in
downloadable form, and such other information covering process or substance that
the Administrator believes will be beneficial to Potential Claimants. The
Commission staff retains the right to review and approve any material posted on the
Fair Fund website.
17. Persons also may obtain a copy of the Distribution Plan on the Commission’s public
website at http://www.sec.gov/litigation/fairfundlist.htm.
18. The Administrator will establish and maintain a toll-free telephone number for
Potential Claimants to call to speak to a live representative of the Administrator
during its regular business hours or, outside of such hours, to hear prerecorded
information about the Fair Fund. The Administrator will advise the Commission staff
of the toll-free telephone number. The Administrator will also establish and maintain
a traditional mailing address and an email address which will be listed on all
correspondence from the Administrator to Potential Claimants as well as on the
website.
19. The Administrator will promptly provide a Claims Packet to any Potential Claimant
upon request.
20. The Administrator will mail notices to the Administrator’s list of banks, brokers, and
other nominees, as well as any other institutions identified during the outreach
process, that may have records of JPM shareholders and holdings during the Relevant

7

Period. The Administrator will request that these entities, to the extent that they were
record holders for beneficial owners of the Eligible Securities:
a. notify the respective beneficial owners within fourteen (14) days of receipt of
the Administrator’s notice so that beneficial owners may timely file a claim;
and/or
b. provide the Administrator a list of last known names and addresses for all
beneficial owners for whom the record holders purchased Eligible Securities
during the Relevant Period so that the Administrator can communicate with
them directly.
21. The Administrator will attempt to locate any Potential Claimant whose mailing is
returned as “undeliverable” and will document all such efforts. The Administrator
will utilize all means reasonably available, including LexisNexis, to obtain updated
addresses in response to undeliverable notices, and forward any returned mail for
which an updated address is provided or obtained. The Administrator will make
available, upon request by the Commission staff, a list of all Potential Claimants
whose Fair Fund Notices have been returned as “undeliverable” due to incorrect
addresses and for which the Administrator has been unable to locate current
addresses.
B. Claims Process
22. In all materials that refer to the claim filing deadline, the claim filing deadline will be
clearly identified as the calendar date one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of
the first publication of the Fair Fund Notice, as described in Paragraph 15 above. To
avoid being barred from asserting a claim, each Potential Claimant must submit to the
Administrator a Claim Form reflecting such Potential Claimant’s claim postmarked
on or before the deadline. The burden will be upon the Potential Claimant to ensure
that his or her Claim Form has been properly and timely postmarked. A claim that is
postmarked after the final deadline will not be accepted unless the deadline is
extended by the Administrator after consultation with the Commission staff. Any
extension will be published on the Fair Fund website.
23. The burden to prove receipt of the claim by the Administrator will be upon the
Potential Claimant; therefore Potential Claimants will be instructed to submit their
claims in a manner that will enable them to prove receipt of the claim by the
Administrator.
24. Claim Forms must be properly filled out per the instructions provided by the
Administrator, and must be accompanied by such documentary evidence as the
8

Administrator deems necessary or appropriate to substantiate the claim. Without
limitation, this information may include third party documentary evidence of
purchases and dispositions of Eligible Securities during the Relevant Period, as well
as holdings of Eligible Securities at pertinent dates.
25. All claims and supporting representations necessary to determine a Potential
Claimant’s eligibility to receive a distribution from the Fair Fund under the terms of
the Distribution Plan must be verified by a declaration executed by the Potential
Claimant under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States. The
declaration must be executed by the Potential Claimant, unless the Administrator
accepts such declaration from a Person authorized to act on the Potential Claimant’s
behalf, whose authority is supported by such documentary evidence as the
Administrator deems necessary.
26. The Administrator will review all claim submissions and determine the eligibility of
each Potential Claimant to participate in the Fair Fund by reviewing claim data and
supporting documentation (or the lack thereof), verifying the claim, and calculating
each Potential Claimant’s loss pursuant to the Plan of Allocation. Each Potential
Claimant will have the burden of proof to establish the validity and amount of his or
her claim, and that they qualify as an Eligible Claimant. The Administrator will have
the right to request, and the Potential Claimant will have the burden of providing to
the Administrator, any additional information and/or documentation deemed relevant
by the Administrator. Any additional information supplied to the Administrator must
be postmarked no later than the deadline set for responses to a Determination Notice.
27. Potential Claimants will be able to contact the Administrator via the toll-free
telephone number, an email address for the Administrator, or using traditional mail to
request copies of the Claim Form, ask questions about how to complete and file the
Claim Form, and inquire about their claim.
28. The Administrator will provide a Determination Notice to each Potential Claimant
who has filed a Claim Form with the Administrator, setting forth the Administrator's
conclusions concerning such claim.
29. The Determination Notice will provide to each Potential Claimant whose claim is
deemed deficient, in whole or in part, the reason(s) for the deficiency (e.g., failure to
provide required information or documentation). It will also notify the Potential
Claimant of the opportunity to cure such deficiency, and provide instructions
regarding what is required to do so. Any Potential Claimant with a deficient claim

9

will have thirty (30) days from the date of the Determination Notice to cure any
deficiencies identified in the Determination Notice.
30. In the event the claim is denied, the Determination Notice will state the reason for
such denial. Any Potential Claimant seeking reconsideration of a rejected claim must
advise the Administrator in writing within thirty (30) days of the date of the
Determination Notice. All requests for reconsideration must include the necessary
documentation to substantiate the basis upon which the Potential Claimant is
requesting reconsideration of their claim.
31. The Administrator will send, as appropriate, a Final Determination Notice to all
Potential Claimants who responded to the Determination Notice in an effort to cure a
deficiency or to seek reconsideration of a rejected claim. The Administrator will
consult with Commission staff regarding claim rejections before the issuance of Final
Determination Notices. The Administrator will send such Final Determination
Notices by no later than sixty (60) days following receipt of documentation or
information in response to the Determination Notice, or such longer time as the
Administrator determines is necessary for a proper determination concerning the
claim.
32. The Administrator may, in its sole discretion, consider disputes of any nature
presented by Potential Claimants, and will consult Commission staff as appropriate.
The Final Determination Notice will constitute the Administrator’s final ruling
regarding the status of the claim.
33. The Administrator will have the authority, in its sole discretion, to waive technical
claim deficiencies and approve claims on a case by case basis, or in groups of claims.
All determinations made by the Administrator in accordance with the Distribution
Plan in any dispute, request for reconsideration, or request to cure a deficient claim
will be final and not subject to appeal.
34. The Potential Claimant has the burden of notifying the Administrator of a change in
his or her current address and other contact information, and of ensuring that such
information is properly reflected on the Administrator's records.
35. The receipt of Eligible Securities by gifts, inheritance, devise, or operation of law will
not be deemed to be a purchase of Eligible Securities, nor will it be deemed an
assignment of any claim relating to the purchase of such securities unless specifically
so provided in the instrument of inheritance. However, the recipient of Eligible
Securities as a gift, inheritance, devise or by operation of law will be eligible to file a
10

Claim Form and participate in the distribution of the Fair Fund to the extent the
original purchaser would have been eligible under the terms of the Distribution Plan.
Only one claim may be submitted with regard to the same transactions in Eligible
Securities, and in cases where multiple claims are filed by the donor and donee, the
donee claim will be honored, assuming it is supported by proper documentation.
36. To the extent that an Eligible Claimant, his or her representative, heir, or assign
requests a distribution check to be issued or reissued in a different name than the
Eligible Claimant (e.g., as the result of a name change because of marriage or
divorce, or as the result of death), the Administrator will honor such request upon
receipt of a written request and supporting documentation, which the Administrator in
its sole discretion deems appropriate to substantiate the request.
37. Claims on behalf of a retirement plan covered by Section 3(3) of ERISA, 29 U.S.C.
§ 1002(3), which do not include Individual Retirement Accounts, and such plan’s
participants, are properly made by the administrator, custodian or fiduciary of the
plan and not by the plan’s participants. The Administrator will distribute any
payments on such claims directly to the administrator, custodian or fiduciary of the
retirement plan. The custodian or fiduciary of the retirement plan will distribute any
payments received in a manner consistent with its fiduciary duties and the governing
account or plan provisions.
C. Plan of Allocation
38. For purposes of this Distribution Plan, the methodology to be applied in calculating
Eligible Loss Amounts was derived from an event study which analyzed the effect of
misstatements by the Respondents on market prices of Eligible Securities. The
Eligible Loss Amount is calculated to reflect the artificially inflated portion of the
per-share price of the Eligible Security that resulted from the misstatements about a)
the true amount of JPM’s losses in the first quarter of 2012 from positions held in the
CIO’s “Synthetic Credit Portfolio”; and b) the effectiveness of JPM’s disclosure
controls and procedures in connection with financial reporting.
39. JPM’s statements during the first three quarters of 2012 regarding JPM’s trading
losses and JPM’s disclosure controls and procedures around financial reporting were
all considered in determining the Relevant Period. As stated above, the Relevant
Period for this Distribution Plan is April 13, 2012 through May 20, 2012. The filing
of the Form 8-K by Respondent on April 13, 2012 was the first time investors relied
on inaccurate information in making investment decisions, and therefore this date
marks the beginning of the Relevant Period. There were no partially corrective
11

disclosures between April 13, 2012 and May 10, 2012. The filing of the Form 10-Q
on May 10, 2012 (after trading had closed), served as a partially corrective disclosure
as it addressed the existence of the approximately $2 billion in trading losses suffered
since the start of the second quarter on the CIO positions, and that there could be
additional losses. However, the May 10 disclosure understated the size of the trading
losses as of quarter end and affirmatively misstated that JPM’s disclosure controls
and procedures were effective. By May 21, 2012, the market had become aware that
the trading losses were significantly greater than what JPM had reported and that the
disclosure control issues were being addressed, as a result of the announcement that
Respondent was suspending its share buyback program and the reporting by various
media outlets of the extent of the losses. Thus, May 20, 2012 marks the end of the
Relevant Period.
40. The inflation per share amount is a measure of the inflation in the price of the shares
of the Eligible Security on the date of the transaction that is attributable to the
misstatements made by JPM. After adjusting for economy-wide and industry-wide
effects on share price movements, the inflation per share amounts were determined by
isolating the abnormal price movements of the Eligible Security as a result of the
three aforementioned disclosures. Below is a graphical depiction of the inflation per
share measurement that will be used to calculate Eligible Loss Amounts.

41. The calculation of Eligible Loss Amounts will be determined based on the timing of
each Potential Claimant’s transactions in Eligible Securities, as follows:
12

a. For Eligible Claimants who purchased Eligible Securities between April 13,
2012 and May 10, 2012, inclusive, and held the shares of Eligible Securities
through May 20, 2012, the calculation of loss will be the number of shares of
Eligible Securities purchased during this period multiplied by $4.84 per share;
b. For Eligible Claimants who purchased Eligible Securities between April 13,
2012 and May 10, 2012, inclusive, and sold their shares of Eligible Securities
between May 11, 2012 and May 20, 2012, inclusive, the calculation of loss
will be the number of shares of Eligible Securities purchased during this
period multiplied by $3.53 per share; and
c. For Eligible Claimants who purchased Eligible Securities between May 11,
2012 and May 20, 2012, inclusive, and held the shares of Eligible Securities
through May 20, 2012, the calculation of loss will be the number of shares of
Eligible Securities purchased during this period multiplied by $1.31 per share.
42. Any transaction that does not fall within the parameters described in Paragraph 41
above will be ineligible for a distribution from the Fair Fund, including but not
limited to Potential Claimants who purchased and sold Eligible Securities between
April 13, 2012 and May 10, 2012. Any Eligible Claimant may have transactions that
fall within one or more of these categories, and in this case, his/her Eligible Loss
Amount will be calculated consistent with the foregoing, taking into account all
transactions in Eligible Securities during the Relevant Period. Transactions in
Eligible Securities during the Relevant Period that are pursuant to, or in connection
with, a swap, option or other derivative will not be eligible for a recovery.
43. A claimant’s Eligible Loss Amount will be determined using the first-in, first-out
(“FIFO”) method, aggregating the gains and losses for all transactions that occurred
during the Relevant Period. To determine Eligible Loss Amounts in accordance with
the FIFO method, shares of Eligible Securities sold during the Relevant Period will be
matched, in chronological order, first against shares of Eligible Securities held at the
beginning of the Relevant Period. Any remaining sales of shares of Eligible Securities
during the Relevant Period will be matched, in chronological order, against shares of
Eligible Securities purchased during the Relevant Period. Accordingly, the inflationrelated proceeds realized from a sale of Eligible Securities during the Relevant Period
that were originally purchased prior to the commencement of the Relevant Period will
offset any inflation-related losses suffered as a result of any purchases of Eligible
Securities made during the Relevant Period. The date of any transaction for purposes
of the loss methodology is the “trade” date as distinguished from the “settlement”
date. Included below are a few basic examples to illustrate the loss calculation
methodology and the FIFO application:

13

Example 1
Transaction Date
4/12/2012
4/25/2012
5/12/2012
5/15/2012

Transaction Type
Beginning Holding
Purchase
Purchase
Sale

FIFO Calculation
Shares
100
100

Purchase Date
4/25/2012
5/12/2012

Number of Shares
0
100
100
100

Sale Date
5/15/2012
Held Through 5/20/2012

Total Potential Eligible Loss Amount

Inflation Per Share
Amount
$0.00
$4.84
$1.31
-$1.31

Eligible Loss Amount
$353.00
$131.00
$484.00

Example 2
Transaction Date
4/12/2012
4/20/2012
5/1/2012
5/16/2012
5/19/2012

Transaction Type
Beginning Holding
Purchase
Sale
Sale
Sale

FIFO Calculation
Shares
100
100
100
100

Purchase Date
Beginning Holding
Beginning Holding
Beginning Holding
4/20/2012

Number of Shares
500
100
100
100
100

Sale Date
5/1/2012
5/16/2012
5/19/2012
Held Through 5/20/2012

Total Potential Eligible Loss Amount

Inflation Per Share
Amount
$0.00
$4.84
-$4.84
-$1.31
-$1.31

Eligible Loss Amount
-$484.00
-$131.00
-$131.00
$484.00
$0.00

14

Example 3
Transaction Date
4/12/2012
4/15/2012
4/16/2012
5/21/2012 Holding

Transaction Type
Beginning Holding
Sale
Purchase
Held

FIFO Calculation
Shares
500
500

Purchase Date
Beginning Holding
4/16/2012

Number of Shares
500
500
500
500

Sale Date
4/15/2012
Held Through 5/20/2012

Total Potential Eligible Loss Amount

Inflation Per Share
Amount
$0.00
-$4.84
$4.84
$0.00

Eligible Loss Amount
-$2,420.00
$2,420.00
$0.00

D. Establishment of the Escrow Account
44. The Administrator will establish an escrow account (the “Escrow Account”) and a
distribution account (“Distribution Account”) at a well-capitalized8 U.S. commercial
bank (the “Bank”), to be proposed by the Administrator and not unacceptable to the
staff of the Commission. The Escrow Account will be established pursuant to an
escrow agreement not unacceptable to the Commission staff. The name of the
Escrow Account will be in the following form: Name of Escrow Account, TIN, as
custodian for the benefit of distributees of the Fair Fund.
45. During the term of the escrow agreement, any investment of the funds will be with a
view toward: first, conserving and preserving the principal; and second, maximizing
investment return. The Administrator may invest and reinvest the assets of the
Escrow Account only in direct obligations of the United States of America, including
United States Treasury securities backed by the full faith and credit of the United
States Government. This may also include a AAA-rated United States Treasury
money market fund that directly invests 100% in short term United States Treasury
securities and obligations, provided however, that the money market mutual funds’
investments in short term United States Treasury securities will not be made through
repurchase agreements or other derivative products.
46. The assets of the Fair Fund are subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of
the Commission. Prior to the receipt of any funds in the Escrow Account, the Bank
8

A well-capitalized bank is a bank that meets the Federal Reserve Board’s definition of “well capitalized” as
defined by the Federal Reserve Act Subpart D, 12 C.F.R. § 208.43(b)(1).

15

will provide the Administrator an attestation, in a form not unacceptable to the
Commission staff, that all funds in the Escrow Account will be held for the Fair Fund
and that the Bank will not place any lien or encumbrance of any kind upon the funds.
The Administrator will be the signatory on the Escrow Account, subject to the
continuing jurisdiction and control of the Commission.
47. All interest earned will accrue for the benefit of the Fair Fund, and all costs associated
with the Escrow and Distribution Accounts will be paid by the Respondent.
48. Upon transfer from the BFS, the assets of the Fair Fund will be held in the Escrow
Account, separate from Bank assets, until the presentation of checks. All Fair Fund
checks presented for payment or electronic transfers will be subject to “positive pay”
controls before they are honored by the Bank. The “positive pay” system provides
protection against fraud arising from counterfeit or altered checks. The “positive pay”
system will require, at a minimum, confirmation by the Bank that all checks
presented for payment match the identifiers and amounts on the payee list prior to
honoring such checks. In each instance, funds will be transferred from the Escrow
Account to the Distribution Account on the Bank’s confirmation that a presented
check matches the relevant “positive pay” criteria.
49. The Administrator will authorize the Bank to provide the Escrow Account
information to the Tax Administrator, including duplicate statements for the Escrow
Account, to prepare federal and state tax returns.
E. Distribution of the Fair Fund
50. The Net Fair Fund will be distributed to Eligible Claimants as provided under the
terms of this Distribution Plan. An Eligible Claimant’s Eligible Loss Amount, as
determined in accordance with the methodology detailed in the Plan of Allocation in
Paragraphs 38-43 above, will be used to determine the amount of their Distribution
Payment.
51. The Administrator will distribute the Net Fair Fund to all Eligible Claimants only
after all Claim Forms have been processed and all Potential Claimants whose claims
have been rejected or disallowed, in whole or in part, have been notified and provided
the opportunity to contest or cure pursuant to the procedures set forth herein, and after
a Commission Order to Disburse has been issued.
52. Should the total amount of the Eligible Loss Amounts of all Eligible Claimants
exceed the Net Fair Fund, the Administrator will distribute the funds to the Eligible
16

Claimants pro rata based upon the ratio of the Eligible Loss Amount of each Eligible
Claimant to the aggregate Eligible Loss Amounts of all Eligible Claimants. No
Distribution Payment will be made to an otherwise Eligible Claimant unless the
amount to be paid equals or exceeds $10.00.
53. The Administrator may, pursuant to a Commission Order, make one or more redistributions to Eligible Claimants.9
54. In order to disburse the Fair Fund, the Administrator will compile and submit a list of
Eligible Claimants (including names, addresses, and Claim IDs) and Eligible Loss
Amounts to the Commission staff after mailing the Final Determination Notices to
Potential Claimants.
55. The Administrator will also provide a reasonable assurances letter to the Commission
staff, representing that the list of Eligible Claimants: a) was compiled in accordance
with the approved Distribution Plan; b) is accurate as to Eligible Claimants’ names,
addresses, and Eligible Loss Amounts; and c) provides all information necessary to
make payments to each Eligible Claimant.
56. Upon receipt and review of the Eligible Claimant list, the Commission staff will
obtain authorization from the Commission to disburse pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6).
Upon approval by the Commission, the Commission staff will cause the transfer of
funds to the Escrow Account. The Administrator will then use its best efforts to
commence mailing Distribution Payment checks or effect wire transfers within ten
(10) business days of the release of the funds into the Escrow Account. All efforts
will be coordinated to limit the time between the Escrow Account’s receipt of the
funds and the issuance of Distribution Payments.
57. All checks will be issued by the Administrator from the Distribution Account set up
at the Bank. All checks will bear a stale date of one hundred twenty (120) days from
the date of issuance. Checks that are not negotiated by the stale date will be voided,
and the Bank will be instructed to stop payment on those checks, except as provided
in Paragraphs 63 to 65 below.

9

In the event of a re-distribution, such re-distribution will be limited to those Eligible Claimants that negotiated
their initial distribution checks, or received electronic payments, and who would receive at least $20.00 in the redistribution.

17

58. All payments will be preceded or accompanied by a communication that includes, as
appropriate:
a. A statement characterizing the distribution;
b. A statement that the tax treatment of the distribution is the responsibility of
each Eligible Claimant and that the Eligible Claimant should consult his or her
tax advisor for advice regarding the tax treatment of the distribution;
c. A statement that checks will be void and cannot be reissued after one hundred
twenty (120) days from the date the original check was issued;
d. A statement that reissued checks will expire on the later of one hundred
twenty (120) days from the date of the original check or sixty (60) days from
the date of the reissued check (the “Limit Date”); and
e. Contact information for the Administrator for questions regarding the
Distribution Payment.
59. A Distribution Payment, either on the face of the check or in the accompanying letter,
will clearly indicate that the money is being disbursed from the Fair Fund established
by the Commission for the benefit of the injured investors of the Respondent. The
letter and other mailings to Eligible Claimants characterizing a Distribution Payment
will be submitted to the Commission staff for review and approval.
60. Electronic or wire transfers may be utilized at the discretion of the Administrator to
transfer approved Distribution Payments to filers of claims on behalf of twenty (20)
or more Eligible Claimants. Wire transfers will be initiated by the Administrator
using a two-party check and balance system, whereby completion of a wire transfer
will require an authorization by two members of the Administrator’s senior staff.
F. Post Distribution; Handling of Returned or Un-Cashed Checks
61. The Administrator will research and attempt to reconcile all returned items due to
non-delivery, insufficient addresses, or any other deficiencies.
62. The Administrator will reissue checks to Eligible Claimants upon the receipt of a
valid, written request from the Eligible Claimant. Such reissued checks will be void
if not negotiated by the Limit Date.
63. In cases where an Eligible Claimant is unable to endorse a Distribution Payment
check as written (e.g., name changes, IRA custodian changes, or recipient is
deceased) and the Eligible Claimant or a lawful representative requests the reissuance
of a Distribution Payment check in a different name, the Administrator will request,
and must receive, documentation to support the requested change. If such change
18

request is properly documented in the sole discretion of the Administrator, the
Administrator will issue an appropriately redrawn Distribution Payment check.
64. If any Distribution Payment check is returned as “undeliverable,” the Administrator
will use all reasonable commercially available resources to locate the most up-to-date
address after receipt of such check. The Administrator will mail a reissued check to
the updated address obtained through the database search, subject to the Limit Date.
65. The Administrator will make reasonable efforts to contact Eligible Claimants who
have failed to negotiate any Distribution Payment checks over $500.00 (other than
those returned as “undeliverable”) and take appropriate action to follow up on the
status of uncashed checks at the request of Commission staff. If appropriate in the
sole discretion of the Administrator, the Administrator will have the authority to
reissue such checks subject to the Limit Date.
66. A residual within the Fair Fund will be established for any amounts remaining after
all assets have been disbursed. The residual may include, among other things, funds
reserved for future taxes and for post distribution contingencies, amounts from
Distribution Payment checks that have not been cashed, amounts from Distribution
Payment checks that were not delivered or accepted upon delivery, and tax refunds.
Any funds remaining in the residual after the Commission approves the final
accounting will be sent to the Commission for transfer to the United States Treasury.
67. The Administrator will retain all claims materials in paper and electronic form for a
period of six (6) years from the transfer of any remaining funds from the Fair Fund
Escrow Account to the Commission or the U.S. Treasury. The Administrator will
destroy all documents, including documents in any media, upon expiration of this
period. In addition, the Administrator will shut down the website, P.O. Box and
customer service telephone line(s) established specifically for the administration of
the Fair Fund two (2) months after the transfer of any remaining funds to the
Commission or to the United States Treasury, or at such earlier time as the
Administrator determines with concurrence of the Commission staff.
G. Accountings
68. Pursuant to Rule 1105(f), once the Fair Fund has been transferred from the BFS to the
Bank, the Administrator will file an accounting with the Commission during the first
ten (10) days of each calendar quarter on a standardized accounting form provided by
the Commission staff. The Administrator will file an accounting of all monies earned
or received and all monies spent in connection with the administration of the
19

Distribution Plan. The accounting will also report all monies billed to JPM in
connection with the administration of the Distribution Plan during the prior quarter.
Upon final distributions to Eligible Claimants pursuant to the procedures described
above, and the payment of all taxes, the Administrator will submit a final accounting
for approval by the Commission on a standardized form provided by the Commission
staff prior to the discharge of the Administrator and cancellation of the Administrator
bond.
H. Termination of the Fair Fund
69. The Fair Fund will be eligible for termination and the Administrator will be eligible
for discharge after all of the following have occurred:
a. a final accounting, in a standard accounting format provided by the
Commission staff, has been submitted by the Administrator and approved by
the Commission;
b. all taxes and other post distribution expenses have been paid; and
c. any amount remaining in the Fair Fund has been returned to the Commission
for transfer to United States Treasury.
70. The Commission staff will seek an order from the Commission to approve the
termination of the Fair Fund, the discharge of the Administrator, the cancellation of
the bond, and the transfer of any amount remaining in the Fair Fund to the United
States Treasury.
71. Once the Fair Fund has been terminated and funds, if any, are transferred to the
United States Treasury, no further claims will be allowed and no additional payments
will be made whatsoever.
72. When administering this Distribution Plan, the Administrator, and/or each of their
designees, agents and assigns, may rely on: all applicable law; orders issued by the
Commission, including orders issued by delegated authority; orders issued by an
administrative law judge, if any, appointed in this proceeding; and any records,
including records containing investor information, provided by Commission staff.
I. Amendments
73. The Administrator will take reasonable and appropriate steps to disburse the Fair
Fund pursuant to the Commission approved Distribution Plan. The Administrator
will inform the Commission staff of any changes needed in the approved Distribution
Plan. Upon agreement with the Commission staff, the Administrator may implement
20

immaterial changes to the approved Distribution Plan to effectuate its general
purposes. For example, in consultation with the Commission staff, the Administrator
may extend any of the procedural deadlines set forth in the approved Distribution
Plan.
74. If a change is deemed to be material by the Commission staff, Commission approval
of the change is required prior to the implementation of the change by amending the
approved Distribution Plan. The Distribution Plan may be amended upon motion by
any party, the Administrator, or upon the Commission’s own motion.

21

