SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-74136; File No. SR-OCC-2015-02)
January 26, 2015
Self-Regulatory Organizations; The Options Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing of a
Proposed Rule Change Concerning a Proposed Capital Plan for Raising Additional
Capital That Would Support The Options Clearing Corporation’s Function as a
Systemically Important Financial Market Utility
Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”)1 and
Rule 19b-4 thereunder,2 notice is hereby given that on January 14, 2015, The Options
Clearing Corporation (“OCC”) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
(“Commission”) the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which
Items have been prepared OCC.3 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit
comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons.
I.

Clearing Agency’s Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule
Change
This proposed rule change is filed by OCC in order to set forth a proposed Capital

Plan for raising additional capital that would support OCC’s function as a systemically
important financial market utility and facilitate OCC’s compliance with new regulatory

1

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

2

17 CFR 240.19b-4.

3

OCC also filed proposals in this proposed rule change as an advance notice under
Section 806(e)(1) of the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of
2010. 12 U.S.C. 5465(e)(1). See File No. SR-OCC-2014-813. In Items I and II
below, OCC states that the purpose of this proposal is in part to facilitate
compliance with the SEC Proposed Rules (as defined below) and address
Principle 15 of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures. The
Commission notes that the SEC Proposed Rules are pending. The Commission
will evaluate the proposed rule change under the Act and the rules currently in
force thereunder.

requirements applicable to systemically important financial market utilities that have
been proposed by the Commission but have not yet been adopted.
II.

Clearing Agency’s Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the
Proposed Rule Change
In its filing with the Commission, OCC included statements concerning the

purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it
received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at
the places specified in Item IV below. OCC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections
A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements.
(A)

Clearing Agency’s Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for,
the Proposed Rule Change
1.

Purpose

OCC is proposing to amend its By-Laws and other governing documents, and to
adopt certain policies, for the purpose of implementing a plan for raising additional
capital (“Capital Plan”) under which the options exchanges that own equity in OCC
(“Stockholder Exchanges” or “Stockholders”) would make an additional capital
contribution and commit to replenishment capital (“Replenishment Capital”) in
circumstances discussed below, and would receive, among other things, the right to
receive dividends from OCC.4 In addition to the additional capital contribution and
Replenishment Capital, the main features of the Capital Plan are: (i) a policy establishing
OCC’s fees at a level that would be sufficient to cover OCC’s estimated operating
expenses plus a “Business Risk Buffer” as described below (“Fee Policy”), (ii) a policy
establishing the amount of the annual refund to clearing members of OCC’s fees
4

The Capital Plan has also been filed with the Commission as an advance notice
(SR-OCC-2014-813), which was amended and restated on January 14, 2015.
2

(“Refund Policy”), and (iii) a policy for calculating the amount of dividends to be paid to
the Stockholder Exchanges (“Dividend Policy”). The Capital Plan is proposed to be
implemented on or about February 27, 2015, subject to all necessary regulatory
approvals.5
The Capital Plan would significantly increase OCC’s capital in connection with
its increased responsibilities as a systemically important financial market utility, and
OCC believes that it would facilitate OCC’s compliance with new regulatory
requirements applicable to such systemically important financial market utilities that have
been proposed by the Commission but have not yet been adopted.6 For purposes of its
capital planning, OCC has used the working assumption that the new requirements
contained in the Commission’s proposed amendments to Rule 17Ad-22 of the SEC
Proposed Rules will be adopted substantially as proposed, and the Capital Plan is
intended to ensure OCC’s ability to comply with Rule 17Ad-22, specifically paragraph
(e)(15) thereof, when the SEC Proposed Rules become effective. In addition, it is
intended to address Principle 15 of the Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures
published by the Bank for International Settlements and the International Organization of
Securities Commissions, which provides, among other things, that a financial market
utility should identify, monitor and manage its general business risk and hold sufficient
liquid net assets funded by equity to cover potential general business losses so that it can
5

The material features of the Capital Plan are summarized in the Term Sheet that is
included as Exhibit 3 to this filing. Certain details of the Term Sheet may change
as a result of negotiations between OCC and the Stockholder Exchanges or
changes in financial figures, but OCC does not anticipate any material changes to
the Capital Plan.

6

See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 71699 (March 12, 2014), 79 FR 29507
(May 22, 2014) (“SEC Proposed Rules”).
3

continue to operate as a going concern. The Capital Plan calls for an infusion of
substantial additional equity capital by the Stockholder Exchanges to be made prior to
February 27, 2015, subject to regulatory approval, that when added to retained earnings
accumulated by OCC in 2014 will significantly increase OCC’s capital levels as
compared to historical levels. Additionally, the Capital Plan includes the Replenishment
Capital commitment, which would provide OCC access to additional equity contributed
by the Stockholder Exchanges should OCC’s equity fall close to or below the amount that
OCC determines to be appropriate to support its business and manage business risk in
compliance with Rule 17Ad-22, as discussed more fully below.
Background
OCC is a clearing agency registered with the Commission and is also a
derivatives clearing organization (“DCO”) regulated in its capacity as such by the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”). OCC is a Delaware business
corporation and is owned equally by the Stockholder Exchanges, five national securities
exchanges for which OCC provides clearing services.7 In addition, OCC provides
clearing services for seven other national securities exchanges that trade options (“NonStockholder Exchanges”). In its capacity as a DCO, OCC also provides clearing services
to four futures exchanges.
OCC has been designated systemically important by the Financial Stability
Oversight Council pursuant to the Payment, Clearing and Settlement Supervision Act,
and the Commission is OCC’s “Supervisory Agency” under Section 803(8) of the

7

The Stockholder Exchanges are: Chicago Board Options Exchange, Incorporated;
International Securities Exchange, LLC; NASDAQ OMX PHLX LLC; NYSE
MKT LLC; and NYSE Arca, Inc.
4

Payment, Clearing and Settlement Supervision Act. OCC is therefore a “covered clearing
agency” (“CCA”) as defined in proposed amendments to the Commission’s Rule 17Ad22(a)(7) and would be required to comply with the provisions of proposed Rule 17Ad-22
applicable to CCA’s, including paragraph (e)(15) thereof .8
Proposed Rule 17Ad-22(e)(15) provides:
Each covered clearing agency shall establish, implement,
maintain and enforce written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to, as applicable: . . . Identify, monitor,
and manage the covered clearing agency’s general business
risk and hold sufficient liquid net assets funded by equity to
cover potential general business losses so that the covered
clearing agency can continue operations and services as a
going concern if those losses materialize, including by:
(i) Determining the amount of liquid net assets
funded by equity based upon its general business risk
profile and the length of time required to achieve recovery
or orderly wind-down, as appropriate, of its critical
operations and services if such action is taken;
(ii) Holding liquid net assets funded by equity equal
to the greater of either (x) six months of the covered
clearing agency’s current operating expenses, or (y) the
amount determined by the board of directors to be
sufficient to ensure a recovery or orderly wind-down of
critical operations and services of the covered clearing
agency, as contemplated by the plans established under
paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, and which:
(A) shall be in addition to resources held to cover
participant defaults or other risks covered under the credit
risk standard in paragraph (b)(3) or paragraph (e)(4)(i)-(iii)
of this section, as applicable, and the liquidity risk standard
in paragraph (e)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section; and
(B) Shall be of high quality and sufficiently liquid
to allow the covered clearing agency to meet its current and
projected operating expenses under a range of scenarios,
including adverse market conditions; and
8

SEC Proposed Rules at 32-33, FR 29507, 29515 (May 22, 2014).
5

(iii) Maintaining a viable plan, approved by the
board of directors and updated at least annually, for raising
additional equity should its equity fall close to or below the
amount required under paragraph (e)(15)(ii) of this
section.9
Over the last nine months, OCC has devoted substantial efforts to: 1) develop a 5year forward looking model of expenses; 2) quantify maximum recovery and wind-down
costs under OCC’s Recovery and Wind-Down Plan; 3) assess and quantify OCC’s
operational and business risks; 4) model projected capital accumulation taking into
account varying assumptions concerning business conditions, fee levels, buffer margin
levels and refunds; and 5) develop an effective mechanism that provides OCC access to
replenishment capital in the event of losses that could cause OCC to be non-compliant
with the SEC Proposed Rules. Incorporating the results of those efforts, the proposed
amendments are intended to allow OCC to implement the Capital Plan and thereby
provide OCC with the means to increase its shareholders’ equity and, in particular, to
obtain timely compliance with Rule 17Ad-22(e)(15)10 as proposed by the Commission.
A more detailed discussion of the manner in which the Capital Plan would allow OCC to
comply with Rule 17Ad-22(e)(15) appears below.
OCC’s Projected Capital Requirement
Using the methods described in detail below, OCC will annually determine a
“Target Capital Requirement” consisting of (i) a “Baseline Capital Requirement” equal to
the greatest of (x) six months operating expenses for the following year, (y) the
maximum cost of the recovery scenario from OCC’s Recovery and Wind-Down Plan,
9

SEC Proposed Rules at 417-418, FR 29507, 29616 (May 22, 2014).

10

SEC Proposed Rules at 222-223, FR 29507, 29547-29548 (May 22, 2014).
6

and (z) the cost to OCC of winding down operations as set forth in the Recovery and
Wind-Down Plan, plus (ii) a “Target Capital Buffer” linked to plausible loss scenarios
from operational risk, business risk and pension risk. OCC has determined that its
currently appropriate “Target Capital Requirement” is $247 million, reflecting a Baseline
Capital Requirement of $117 million, which is equal to six months of projected operating
expenses, plus a Target Capital Buffer of $130 million. This Target Capital Buffer would
provide a significant capital cushion to offset potential business losses.
As of December 31, 2013, OCC had total shareholders’ equity of approximately
$25 million,11 meaning that OCC proposes to add additional capital of $222 million to
meet its 2015 Target Capital Requirement. In addition, OCC would be obligated under
paragraph (e)(15)(iii)12 of proposed Rule 17Ad-22 to maintain “a viable plan” for raising
additional equity should its equity fall close to or below the amount required under
paragraph (e)(15)(ii) of the Rule13; i.e., the Baseline Capital Requirement. OCC has
determined that its viable plan for Replenishment Capital should provide for a
“Replenishment Capital Amount” which would give OCC access to additional capital as
needed up to a maximum of the Baseline Capital Requirement, which is currently $117

11

See OCC 2013 Annual Report, Financial Statements, Statements of Financial
Condition, available on OCC’s website,
http://optionsclearing.com/components/docs/about/annualreports/occ_2013_annual_report.pdf.

12

SEC Proposed Rules at 418, FR 29507, 29616 (May 22, 2014).

13

SEC Proposed Rules at 417, FR 29507, 29616 (May 22, 2014).
7

million.14 Therefore, OCC’s proposed Capital Plan would provide OCC in 2015 with
ready access to approximately $364 million in equity capital as follows:
Baseline Capital Requirement
Target Capital Buffer
Target Capital Requirement

$117,000,000
$130,000,000
$247,000,000

Replenishment Capital Amount

$117,000,000

Total OCC Capital Resources

$364,000,000

Procedures Followed in Order to Determine Capital Requirement
Various measures were used in determining the appropriate level of capital
necessary to comply with the SEC Proposed Rules. An outside consultant conducted a
“bottom-up” analysis of OCC’s risks and quantified the appropriate amount of capital to
be held against each risk. The analysis was comprehensive across risk types, including
credit, market, pension, operational, and business risk. Based on internal operational risk
scenarios and loss modeling at or above the 99% confidence level, OCC’s operational
risk was quantified at $226 million and pension risk at $21 million, resulting in the total
Target Capital Requirement of $247 million. Business risk was addressed by taking into
consideration that OCC has the ability to fully offset potential revenue volatility and
manage business risk to zero by adjusting the levels at which fees and refunds are set and
by adopting a “Business Risk Buffer” of 25% when setting fees. Other risks, such as
counterparty risk and on-balance sheet credit and market risk, were considered to be
immaterial for purposes of requiring additional capital based on means available to OCC
to address those risks that did not require use of OCC’s capital. As discussed in more

14

The obligation to provide Replenishment Capital will be capped at $200 million,
which OCC projects will sufficiently account for increases in its capital
requirements for the foreseeable future.
8

detail below in the context of OCC’s Fee Policy, the Business Risk Buffer of 25% is
achieved by setting OCC’s fees at a level intended to achieve target annual revenue that
will result in a 25% buffer for the year after paying all operating expenses.
An analysis was also performed to identify OCC’s risk in terms of the regulatory
requirements set forth in proposed Rule 17Ad-22(e)(15)(ii).15 This analysis estimated
that, currently, OCC’s maximum recovery costs would be $100 million and projected
wind-down costs would be $73 million. OCC’s projected expenses for 2015 are $234
million, so that six months projected expenses are $234 million/2 = $117 million. The
greater of recovery or wind-down costs and six months of operating expenses is therefore
$117 million, and OCC’s Baseline Capital Requirement (minimum regulatory
requirement) is therefore $117 million. OCC then computed the appropriate amount of a
Target Capital Buffer from operational risk, business risk, and pension risk. This resulted
in a determination that the current Target Capital Buffer should be $130 million. Thus,
the Target Capital Requirement is $117 million + $130 million = $247 million.
Overview of, and Basis for, OCC’s Proposal to Acquire Additional Equity Capital
In order to meet its Target Capital Requirement, and after consideration of
available alternatives, OCC’s Board approved a proposal from OCC’s Stockholder

15

SEC Proposed Rules at 417, FR 29507, 29616 (May 22, 2014).
9

Exchanges under which OCC would meet its Target Capital Requirement of $247 million
in early 2015 as follows:
Shareholders’ Equity as of 1/1/2014
Shareholders Equity Accumulated
Through Retained Earnings16

$ 25,000,000

Additional Contribution from Stockholder Exchanges
Target Capital Requirement
Replenishment Capital Amount

$150,000,000
$247,000,000
$117,000,000

Total OCC Capital Resources

$364,000,000

$ 72,000,000

The additional contribution of the Stockholder Exchanges would be made in
respect of their Class B Common Stock on a pro rata basis. The Stockholder Exchanges
will also commit to provide additional equity capital up to the Replenishment Capital
Amount, which is currently $117 million, in the event Replenishment Capital is needed.
While the Replenishment Capital Amount will increase as the Baseline Capital
Requirement increases, it would be capped at a total of $200 million that could be
outstanding at any point in time. OCC has estimated that the Baseline Capital
Requirement would not exceed this amount before 2022. When the limit is being
approached, OCC would revise the Capital Plan as needed to address future needs. In
consideration for their capital contributions and replenishment commitments, the
Stockholder Exchanges will receive dividends as described in the Dividend Policy
discussed below for so long as they remain stockholders and maintain their contributed
16

See Proposed Rule Change by The Options Clearing Corporation to Reflect the
Elimination of a Discount to the Clearing Fee Schedule, Securities Exchange Act
Release No. 71769 (March 21, 2014), 79 FR 17214 (March 27, 2014) (SR-OCC2014-05) (Filing for immediate effectiveness of a proposed rule change with the
Commission to reinstate OCC’s permanent clearing fee schedule for securities
options and securities futures that became effective May 1, 2007 (“Permanent
Schedule Reinstatement Filing”)). The $72 million is after giving effect to the
approximately $40 million refund referred to below.
10

capital and commitment to replenish capital up to the Replenishment Capital Amount,
subject to the $200 million cap.
Fee, Refund, and Dividend Policies
Upon reaching the Target Capital Requirement, the Capital Plan and the proposed
Fee Policy require OCC to set its fees at a level that utilizes a Business Risk Buffer of
25%. The purpose of this Business Risk Buffer is to ensure that OCC accumulates
sufficient capital to cover unexpected fluctuations in operating expenses, business capital
needs, and regulatory capital requirements. Furthermore, the Capital Plan requires OCC
to maintain Fee, Refund, and Dividend Policies, described in more detail below, which
are designed to ensure that OCC’s shareholders’ equity remains well above the Baseline
Capital Requirement. The proposed Fee, Refund, and Dividend Policies are attached to
this filing as Exhibits 5A, 5B, and 5C respectively. The required Business Risk Buffer of
25% is below OCC’s 10-year historical pre-refund average buffer of 31%. The target
will remain 25% so long as OCC’s shareholders’ equity remains above the Target Capital
Requirement amount. The reduction in buffer margin from OCC’s 10-year average of
31% to 25% reflects OCC’s commitment to continue to operate as an industry utility and
ensuring that market participants benefit as much as possible from OCC’s operational
efficiencies in the future. This reduction will permit OCC to charge lower fees to market
participants rather than maximizing refunds to clearing members and dividend
distributions to Stockholder Exchanges. OCC will review its fee schedule on a quarterly
basis to manage revenue as closely to this target as possible.17 For example, if the

17

If OCC’s fee schedule needs to be changed in order to achieve the 25% Business
Risk Buffer, OCC would file a proposed rule change seeking approval of the
revised fee schedule.
11

Business Risk Buffer is materially above 25% after the first quarter of a particular year,
OCC may decrease fees for the remainder of the year, and conversely if the Business
Risk Buffer is materially below 25% after the first quarter, OCC may increase fees for the
remainder of the year.
The Capital Plan would allow OCC to refund approximately $40 million from
2014 fees to clearing members in 2015 and to reduce fees in an amount to be determined
by the Board, effective in the second quarter 2015. OCC will announce new fee levels
early in 2015 and will make them effective following notification to clearing members
and any necessary approval by the Commission. OCC will endeavor to provide clearing
members with no less than 60-day advance notice of the effectiveness of changes to fee
levels, particularly those that result in increases to fee levels. No dividends will be
declared until December 2015 and no dividends will be paid until 2016.
Changes to the Fee, Refund, or Dividend Policies will require the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of the directors then in office and approval of the holders of all of OCC’s
outstanding Class B Common Stock. The formulas for determining the amount of
refunds and dividends under the Refund and Dividend Policies, respectively, which are
described in more detail below, assume that refunds are tax-deductible but that dividends
are not. The Refund and Dividend Policies would each provide that in the event that
refunds payable under the Refund Policy are not tax deductible, the policies would be
amended to restore the relative economic benefits between the recipients of the refunds
and the Stockholder Exchanges.

12

Fee Policy
Under the Fee Policy, in setting fees each year, OCC would calculate an annual
revenue target based on a forward twelve months expense forecast divided by the
difference between one and the Business Risk Buffer of 25%, i.e., OCC will divide the
expense forecast by .75. Establishing a Business Risk Buffer at 25% would allow OCC
to manage the risk that fees would generate less revenue than expected due to lower-thanexpected trading volume or other factors, or that expenses would be higher than
projected. The Fee Policy also will include provisions from existing Article IX, Section 9
of the By-Laws to the effect that the fee schedule may also include additional amounts
necessary to (i) maintain such reserves as are deemed reasonably necessary by the Board
to provide facilities for the conduct of OCC’s business and to conduct development and
capital planning activities in connection with OCC’s services to the options exchanges,
Clearing Members and the general public, and (ii) accumulate such additional surplus as
the Board may deem advisable to permit OCC to meet its obligations to Clearing
Members and the general public; however, these provisions will be invoked only in
extraordinary circumstances and to the extent that the Board has determined that the
required amount of such additional reserves or additional surplus will exceed the full
amount that is expected to be accumulated through the Business Risk Buffer (prior to
payment of refunds or dividends) so OCC’s fees will ordinarily be based on its projected
operating expenses and the Business Risk Buffer of 25%.

13

Under the Capital Plan, OCC would calculate its annual revenue target as follows:
Annual Revenue Target = Forward 12 Months Expense Forecast/(1-.25).
Because OCC’s clearing fee schedules typically reflect different rates for different
categories of transactions, fee projections would include projections as to relative volume
in each such category. The clearing fee schedule would therefore be set to achieve a
blended or average rate per contract sufficient, when multiplied by total projected
contract volume, to achieve the Annual Revenue Target. Under extraordinary
circumstances, OCC would then add any amount determined to be necessary for
additional reserves or surplus and divide the resulting number by the projected contract
volume to determine the applicable average fee per cleared contract needed to achieve the
additional amounts required. Consistent with past practice, OCC would notify clearing
members of the fees that would be applicable for any particular period by describing the
change in an information memorandum distributed to all clearing members. Consistent
with past practice, OCC would also notify regulators of the fees that would be applicable
for any particular period by filing an amendment to its Schedule of Fees as a proposed
rule change for immediate effectiveness under Section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act and Rule
19b-4(f)(2) thereunder.18
Refund Policy
Under the Refund Policy, except at a time when Replenishment Capital is
outstanding as described below, OCC would declare a refund to Clearing Members in
18

See, e.g., the Permanent Schedule Reinstatement Filing, supra n. 13; Proposed
Rule Change by The Options Clearing Corporation to Reduce the Per Contract
Clearing Fee for Routing Trades Executed in Accordance with the Options
Order Protection and Locked/Crossed Market Plan to $.01 per Contract,
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 68025 (October 12, 2012), 77 FR 63398
(October 16, 2012) (SR-OCC-2012-18).
14

December of each year, beginning in 2015, in an amount equal to 50% of the excess, if
any, of (i) pre-tax income for the year in which the refund is declared over (ii) the sum of
(x) the amount of pre-tax income after the refund necessary to produce after-tax income
for such year sufficient to maintain shareholders’ equity at the Target Capital
Requirement for the following year plus (y) the amount of pre-tax income after the refund
necessary to fund any additional reserves or additional surplus not already included in the
Target Capital Requirement. Such refund will be paid in the year following the
declaration after the issuance of OCC’s audited financial statements, provided that (i) the
payment does not result in total shareholders’ equity falling below the Target Capital
Requirement, and (ii) such payment is otherwise permitted by applicable Delaware law
and applicable federal laws and regulations. OCC would not be able to pay a refund on a
particular date unless dividends were paid on the same date. If Replenishment Capital
has been contributed and remains outstanding, OCC would not pay refunds until such
time as the Target Capital Requirement is restored through the accumulation of retained
earnings. Refunds in accordance with the Refund Policy would resume once the Target
Capital Requirement is restored and all Replenishment Capital is repaid in full, provided
that the restoration of the Target Capital Requirement and the repayment of
Replenishment Capital occurred within 24 months of the issuance date of the
Replenishment Capital. If, within 24 months of the issuance date of any Replenishment
Capital, such Replenishment Capital has not been repaid in full or shareholders’ equity
has not been restored to the Target Capital Requirement, OCC would no longer pay
refunds to clearing members, even if the Target Capital Requirement is restored and all
Replenishment Capital is repaid at a later date.

15

Dividend Policy
The Dividend Policy would provide that, except at a time when Replenishment
Capital is outstanding as described below, OCC would declare a dividend on its Class B
Common Stock in December of each year in an aggregate amount equal to the excess, if
any, of (i) after-tax income for the year, after application of the Refund Policy (unless the
Refund Policy has been eliminated, in which case the refunds shall be deemed to be $0)
over (ii) the sum of (A) the amount required to be retained in order to maintain total
shareholders’ equity at the Target Capital Requirement for the following year, plus (B)
the amount of any additional reserves or additional surplus not already included in the
Target Capital Requirement. Such dividend will be paid in the year following the
declaration after the issuance of OCC’s audited financial statements, provided that (i) the
payment does not result in total shareholders’ equity falling below the Target Capital
Requirement, and (ii) such payment is otherwise permitted by applicable Delaware law
and applicable federal laws and regulations. If Replenishment Capital has been
contributed and remains outstanding, OCC would not pay dividends until such time as the
Target Capital Requirement is restored.
OCC’s Status as an Industry Utility
OCC has always been operated on an “industry utility” model. The Stockholder
Exchanges have heretofore contributed only minimal capital to OCC.19 OCC’s By-Laws
currently require that OCC set its clearing fees at a level that is designed to cover

19

OCC’s common stock and paid in capital total $2,659,999. See OCC 2013
Annual Report, Financial Statements, Statements of Financial Condition,
available on OCC’s website,
http://optionsclearing.com/components/docs/about/annualreports/occ_2013_annual_report.pdf.
16

operating expenses and to maintain such reserves and accumulate such additional capital
as are deemed reasonably necessary for OCC to meet its obligations to its clearing
members and the public. Clearing fees that are collected in excess of these amounts are
refunded annually on a pro rata basis to the clearing members who paid them. Under
this model, OCC has never paid dividends to the Stockholder Exchanges. However,
OCC has paid significant refunds to clearing members each year. OCC is aware that a
portion -- possibly a significant portion -- of those refunds are not passed through by the
clearing members to their end user customers. Accordingly, by adopting an approach
that includes paying dividends to the Stockholder Exchanges that have invested a
significant amount of additional capital ($150 million) but that also reduces the historical
pre-refund average buffer of 31% by adopting a Business Risk Buffer of 25%, OCC
believes that the proposed approach maintains, and perhaps better aligns with, an industry
utility model.
Given the very large increase in capital that OCC has determined to be
appropriate in order to assure compliance with regulatory requirements and meet the
increased responsibilities imposed upon it as a systemically important financial market
utility, OCC has determined that the best alternative available to it is to obtain a
substantial further capital contribution from the Stockholder Exchanges. This cannot be
accomplished without modification of the past practice of not providing dividends to
stockholders. Accordingly, it is necessary for OCC to establish the new Fee Policy,
Refund Policy, and Dividend Policy. Because of the Business Risk Buffer being set at
25%, the combination of the Fee, Refund, and Dividend Policies will effectively cap the
dividends to be paid to the Stockholder Exchanges at a level that the Board (with the

17

advice of outside financial experts) has determined results in a reasonable rate of return
on contributed capital, particularly in comparison to the implied cost of capital to the
clearing members and their customers of instead pursuing an approach which required the
accumulation of retained earnings through higher fees and no refunds for several years.
OCC will continue to refund a significant percentage of excess clearing fees to clearing
members, thereby benefiting both clearing members and, to the extent that refunds are
passed through by the clearing members to their end user customers, their customers.
The Capital Plan therefore effectively preserves OCC’s industry utility model of
providing its services in an efficient manner, but enhances the benefits to the end user
customers by charging lower initial fees as a result of the decrease in the buffer margin
from OCC’s 10-year average of 31% to 25%.
Clearing members and customers will benefit from the proposed Capital Plan
because it will allow OCC to continue to provide clearing services at low cost. As noted,
OCC expects that this capital infusion from stockholders will enable OCC to provide a
significant refund of 2014 fees. OCC further expects that its current clearing fees will be
reduced significantly based on the Business Risk Buffer of 25% beginning in 2015 with
refunds restored, and that these lower fees will continue for the foreseeable future.
Stockholder Exchanges will benefit from the dividend return they receive and,
perhaps more importantly, they will be assured that OCC will be in a position to provide
clearing services for their markets on an on-going basis within the same basic structure
that has served these markets well since their inception and without the need to radically
change the structure to address potential demands of outside equity investors. Non-

18

Stockholder Exchanges will also benefit by continuing to receive OCC’s clearing
services for their products on the same basis as they presently do.20
OCC also believes that the Capital Plan will better align the interests of
Stockholder Exchanges and clearing members with respect to expenses, since changes to
the level of operating expenses directly affect the Target Capital Requirement. In sum,
OCC believes that the present proposal represents a fair and reasonable balancing of the
interests of the Stockholder Exchanges, the other exchanges for which OCC provides
clearing services, clearing members, customers, and the general public while providing
an immediate infusion of capital and a structure within which OCC can meet its
obligations to the public as a systemically important financial market utility, as well as
the requirements under the SEC Proposed Rules.
Replenishment Capital Plan
OCC proposes to put in place a Replenishment Capital Plan whereby OCC’s
Stockholder Exchanges are obligated to provide on a pro rata basis a committed amount
of Replenishment Capital should OCC’s total shareholders’ equity fall below the hard
trigger (as defined below). The aggregate committed amount for all five Stockholder
Exchanges in the form of Replenishment Capital that could be accessed at any time
would be capped at the excess of (i) the lesser of (A) the Baseline Capital Requirement,
which is currently $117 million, at the time of the relevant funding or (B) $200 million,
over (ii) amounts of outstanding Replenishment Capital (“Cap”). The $200 million
figure in the Cap formula takes into account projected growth in the Baseline Capital
20

Non-Stockholder Exchanges contribute capital by purchasing a promissory note
in the principal amount of $1,000,000. See Section 2 of Article VIIB of OCC’s
By-Laws. The required capital contribution of Non-Stockholder exchanges will
not change under the Capital Plan.
19

Requirement for the foreseeable future. The commitment to provide Replenishment
Capital would not be limited by time, but only by the Cap. Replenishment Capital could
be called in whole or in part after the occurrence of a “hard trigger” event described
below, subject to the Cap. If the Baseline Capital Requirement approaches or exceeds
$200 million, the Board can consider, as part of its annual review of the Replenishment
Capital Plan that is required by the SEC Proposed Rules, alternative arrangements to
obtain replenishment capital in excess of the $200 million committed under the
Replenishment Capital Plan. In addition, the Refund Policy and the Dividend Policy will
provide that, in the absence of obtaining any such alternative arrangements, the amount
of the difference will be subtracted from amounts that would otherwise be available for
the payment of refunds and dividends.
Replenishment Capital contributed to OCC under the Replenishment Capital Plan
would take the form of a new class of common stock (“Class C Common Stock”) of OCC
to be issued to the Stockholder Exchanges solely in exchange for Replenishment Capital
contributions.
The Replenishment Capital Plan would be part of OCC’s overall Capital Plan. In
implementing the Replenishment Capital Plan, OCC’s management would monitor
OCC’s levels of shareholders’ equity to identify certain triggers, or reduced capital levels,
that might require action. OCC has identified two key triggers – a soft trigger and a hard
trigger – and proposes that OCC take certain steps upon the occurrence of either as
described in more detail below.
The “soft trigger” for re-evaluating OCC’s capital would occur if OCC’s
shareholders’ equity falls below the sum of (i) the Baseline Capital Requirement and (ii)

20

75% of the Target Capital Buffer. The soft trigger would be a warning sign that OCC’s
capital had fallen to a level that required attention and responsive action to prevent it
from falling to unacceptable levels. Upon a breach of the soft trigger, OCC’s senior
management and the Board would review alternatives to increasing capital, and take
appropriate action as necessary, including increasing fees or decreasing expenses, to
restore shareholders’ equity to the Target Capital Requirement.
The “hard trigger” for making a mandatory Replenishment Capital call would
occur if shareholders’ equity falls below 125% of the Baseline Capital Requirement
(“Hard Trigger Threshold”). The hard trigger would be a sign that corrective action more
significant and with a more immediate impact than increasing fees or decreasing
expenses should be taken to increase OCC’s capital, either as part of a recovery plan or a
wind down plan for OCC’s business. OCC’s shareholders’ equity would have to fall
more than $100 million below the fully funded capital amount described above in order
for the Hard Trigger Threshold to be breached. As a result, OCC views the breach of the
Hard Trigger Threshold as unlikely and occurring only as a result of a significant,
unexpected event. Upon a breach of the Hard Trigger Threshold, the Board would have
to determine whether to attempt a recovery, a wind-down of OCC’s operations or a sale
or similar transaction, subject in each case to any necessary stockholder consent. If the
Board decides to wind-down OCC’s operations, OCC would access the Replenishment
Capital in an amount sufficient to fund the wind-down, as such amount would be
determined by the Board, and subject to the Cap described above. If the Board decides to
attempt a recovery of OCC’s capital and business, OCC would access the Replenishment

21

Capital in an amount sufficient to return shareholders’ equity to an amount equal to $20
million above the Hard Trigger Threshold, subject to the Cap described above.
While Replenishment Capital is outstanding, no refunds or dividends would be
paid and, if any Replenishment Capital remains outstanding for more than 24 months or
the Target Capital Requirement is not restored during that period, changes would be
made to how OCC calculates refunds and dividends, as described in more detail above
under Refund Policy and Dividend Policy. In addition, while Replenishment Capital is
outstanding, OCC would first utilize the entire amount of Available Funds to repurchase,
on a pro rata basis from each Stockholder, to the extent permitted by applicable
Delaware and federal law and regulations, outstanding shares of Class C Common Stock
as soon as practicable after completion of the financial statements following the end of
each calendar quarter at a price equal to the original amount paid for such shares, plus an
additional “gross up” amount to compensate the holders of the Class C Common Stock
for taxes on dividend income (if any) that they may have to recognize as a result of such
repurchase.21 For this purpose, “Available Funds” would equal, as of the end of any
calendar quarter, the excess, if any, of (x) shareholders’ equity over (y) the Minimum
Replenishment Level. The “Minimum Replenishment Level” would mean $20 million
above the Hard Trigger Threshold, so that OCC’s shareholders’ equity would remain at
or above the Minimum Replenishment Level after giving effect to the repurchase.
Furthermore, under the Dividend and Refund Policies, refunds and dividends would be
suspended until such time as the Target Capital Requirement is restored.

21

Based on current federal rates, if the full amount of the payment is classified as a
dividend and the recipient is entitled to a dividends received deduction, this gross
up is estimated to be approximately 12% of the payment.
22

Amendments to Governing Documents
In order to implement the Capital Plan, OCC proposes to make amendments to its
By-Laws and Restated Certificate of Incorporation and amend and restate its
Stockholders Agreement.
Amendments to By-Laws
OCC is proposing various amendments to the By-Laws in order to implement the
Capital Plan. Specifically, OCC proposes to amend the definition of Equity Exchange in
Article I, Section 1 to take into account the potential ownership of Class C Common
Stock by the Stockholder Exchanges.
Article II, Section 3 would be amended to change the definition of quorum such
that a majority of outstanding common stock entitled to vote at a meeting of Stockholders
either in person or by proxy would constitute a quorum for any such meeting of the
Stockholders. In addition, OCC proposes to amend Article II, Section 5 to allow for the
potential issuance of Class C Common Stock, which will not have voting rights except as
required by applicable law.
Article VIIA, Section 2, would be amended to (i) provide for the potential
issuance of Class C Common Stock in consideration for Replenishment Capital provided
by Stockholder Exchanges, (ii) permit, consistent with the proposed amendments to the
Stockholders Agreement, the transfer of shares of common stock to another Stockholder,
and (iii) reflect the right of other Stockholders, consistent with the proposed amendments
to the Stockholders Agreement, to purchase the shares of common stock of another
Stockholder. Article VIIA, Section 3, would be amended to conform to the changes to
Article VIIA, Section 2.

23

OCC proposes amendments to Article VIII, Section 5(d), to require that a Board
decision to utilize OCC’s retained earnings to compensate for a loss or deficiency to the
Clearing Fund would require unanimous consent from the holders of Class A Common
Stock and Class B Common Stock. This proposed amendment is intended to protect
Stockholders from an action taken without their consent that could increase their
likelihood of being required to provide Replenishment Capital. Similarly, Article XI,
Section 1 would also be amended to account for the possible issuance of the non-voting
Class C Common Stock consistent with the Restated Certificate of Incorporation as
discussed below, and to require unanimous Stockholder approval for any future
amendments to the new provision of Article VIII, Section 5(d) described above.
Article IX, Section 9, would be amended in three ways. First, the concept of the
Business Risk Buffer would be incorporated into Article IX, Section 9(a). Second,
Article IX, Section 9, would be amended to provide that OCC would only add amounts
for reserves and surpluses in addition to the Business Risk Buffer in extraordinary
circumstances and only to the extent that the Board has determined that the required
amount of additional reserves and surplus is expected to exceed the full amount that is
anticipated to be accumulated through the Business Risk Buffer prior to payment of
refunds and dividends. Third, Article IX, Section 9, would be amended to expressly
reference the potential payment of dividends in accordance with the Dividend Policy.
Amendments to Restated Certificate of Incorporation
OCC is proposing to amend its Restated Certificate of Incorporation in order to
implement the Capital Plan. The proposed amendment to the restated Certificate of
Incorporation is attached to this filing as Exhibit 5D. Article IV would be amended in

24

multiple locations to (i) reduce the number of authorized shares of Class A Common
Stock and Class B Common Stock to the number of shares currently outstanding, and the
number of series of Class B Common Stock, to reflect the fact that there are only five
Stockholder Exchanges, (ii) to eliminate a provision under which additional shares of
Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock could be authorized in certain
circumstances without a separate vote of each series of Class B Common Stock, (iii)
create Class C Common Stock as non-voting stock, (iv) set a par value for Class C
Common Stock of $1,000 per share, (v) provide for distribution upon a liquidation or
dissolution of OCC to holders of Class A, Class B, and Class C Common Stock, pro rata
on a pari passu basis, the amount of the par value of their shares, and (vi) remove
restrictions on the transfer of shares of Class B Common Stock to more than one entity in
order to address the possible exercise by another Stockholder of its right of first refusal
under the Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement. Additionally, Article IV
would be amended to make clear that the prohibition on OCC’s creating or issuing rights
or options to purchase OCC stock set forth in Article IV would not restrict the ability of
OCC to enter into the Replenishment Capital Plan. Finally, technical changes would be
made to Article VI in connection with the creation of Class C Common Stock as nonvoting stock.
Amendments to Stockholders Agreement
OCC is proposing various amendments to the Stockholders Agreement to make
technical changes relating to the additional contributions of capital to be made by the
Stockholder Exchanges under the Capital Plan and the potential issuance of Class C
Common Shares. The proposed Amended and Restated Stockholders Agreement is

25

attached to this filing as Exhibit 5E. In part, the amendments to the Stockholders
Agreement would provide Stockholders with a secondary right of refusal to be exercised
if a Stockholder wished to sell its shares and OCC chose not to exercise its existing right
of first refusal to purchase those shares. This change was considered necessary because
after the additional contributions of capital by the Stockholder Exchanges under the
Capital Plan, shares of Class B Common Stock will be significantly more valuable,
making it less likely that OCC would be able to exercise its right of first refusal.
Providing the non-selling Stockholder Exchanges with a secondary right of first refusal
would increase the chances that a selling Stockholder Exchange would find a purchaser
for its shares from among OCC’s existing owners. Because OCC’s Stockholders
Agreement has already been amended several other times, for convenience OCC is also
proposing to amend and restate the Stockholders Agreement to incorporate all previous
amendments and the new amendments into a single comprehensive agreement.
Each of the proposed new amendments to the Stockholders Agreement is
described below, in the order they appear in the agreement. OCC proposes a technical
amendment to Section 1 of the Stockholders Agreement to refer to the definitions of
Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock, and Class C Common Stock in the
Restated Certificate of Incorporation and By-Laws. OCC proposes an amendment to
Section 3 which would delete an obsolete reference to a plan relating to OCC’s original
reorganization into a common clearing facility for all options exchanges. OCC proposes
a technical amendment to Section 5(a) to add a reference to the procedures for
Stockholder Exchanges to acquire shares pursuant to their secondary rights of first refusal
in certain situations that will be set out in amended Section 10(e). OCC is proposing an

26

amendment to Section 5(b) providing that the Stockholder Exchanges may not sell or
transfer less than all of their shares without the consent of OCC. OCC seeks to prevent a
partial sale by a Stockholder Exchange of a portion of its shares of Class A Common
Stock, Class B Common Stock, or Class C Common Stock to avoid difficulties that could
arise for OCC if, as a result of a partial sale, voting rights, dividend rights, and
replenishment capital were spread across Stockholder Exchanges on a non pro rata basis.
Section 5(b) would further clarify that if OCC consented to a partial sale the Stockholder
Exchanges’ right of first refusal would still apply, and that a Stockholder Exchange could
sell shares of Class C Common Stock to OCC without selling its shares of Class A
Common Stock and Class B Common Stock. OCC proposes to amend Section 6(a) to
provide Stockholders, upon the non-exercise of OCC’s right of first refusal, a secondary
right of first refusal to purchase shares of other Stockholders in certain circumstances
discussed above, and to establish procedures governing the exercise of this right. Section
6(b) would be amended to explicitly state that OCC can assign its rights under the
Stockholders Agreement to purchase shares of a Stockholder Exchange in the event of
such Stockholder Exchange’s bankruptcy or insolvency, and to create an exception from
the right of first refusal for transfers to certain affiliates of a Stockholder that meet the
exchange eligibility requirements set forth in the By-Laws. Section 6(c) would be
amended to make any transfer or encumbrance of shares in violation of the Stockholders
Agreement, either voluntarily or by operation of law, void. Section 6(d) would be
amended to explicitly state that OCC can assign its rights under the Stockholders
Agreement to repurchase shares of any Stockholder that ceases to be qualified to
participate in OCC pursuant to the By-Laws. The revised Section 6(c) would take the

27

place of current Section 6(e), which would be deleted. Section 6(e) currently provides
that such a pledge or transfer would automatically be deemed to create a transfer of the
shares to OCC. OCC proposes conforming amendments to Section 6(f), Section 6(g),
Section 7, and Section 8 to provide for the new Stockholder Exchange right of first
refusal. OCC proposes deleting Section 9 to remove the right of Stockholders to require
OCC to purchase their shares of stock.
OCC proposes to amend Section 10(a) of the Stockholders Agreement to provide
that the purchase price paid upon exercise of purchase rights by OCC or the Stockholder
Exchanges would be equal to the lowest of (i) the book value of the shares to be
purchased, (ii) the total capital contribution of the selling Stockholder and (iii) in the case
of exercise of a right of first refusal, the price originally offered for such shares. OCC
proposes other technical amendments to Sections 10(a), 10(b) and 10)(c) of the
Stockholders Agreement concerning the purchase price formula, procedures, and timing
for OCC’s repurchase rights of shares (or, if applicable, the purchase of a Stockholder’s
shares by another Stockholder) pursuant to the terms of the Stockholders Agreement.
Section 10(d) would be amended such that any consideration to be paid by OCC upon the
exercise of a right of first refusal would be subordinated to all other claims of all other
creditors of OCC, and to prohibit OCC from declaring or paying any dividends, acquiring
for value any shares of stock or distributing assets to any Stockholder Exchange, except
with regard to required purchases or redemptions of shares of Class C Common Stock or
payments of dividends in accordance with the Dividend Policy. OCC proposes to amend
current Section 10(e) by moving its provisions addressing the subordination of payments
by OCC and non-payment of dividends under certain circumstances into the proposed

28

Section 10(d) as discussed above. OCC proposes technical amendments to current
Section 10(g), proposed Section 10(e) concerning the process under which OCC would
acquire shares upon exercise of its right of first refusal. OCC also proposes to move
technical provisions of the current Section 10(f) concerning the payment of such shares
into Section 10(e). Section 10(f) would then be amended to address procedures for
Stockholders that exercise their right of first refusal.
Section 11 of the Stockholders Agreement would be amended in order to make a
Stockholder’s right to transfer shares dependent upon the non-exercise of OCC’s and
other Stockholders’ right of first refusal to the purchase of such Stockholder’s shares.
Additionally, Section 11 would be amended to provide that the transfer of a
Stockholder’s shares under that section would not be effective without the transferee’s
assuming the rights and obligations under the Stockholders Agreement, certain joinders
to the Stockholders Agreement and other agreements between OCC and Stockholders.
Section 14(a) would be amended to make reference to the Stockholders Agreement.
Section 14(b) would be amended to make a technical change relating to the legend on
OCC’s stock certificates. Section 15 would be amended to update the mailing addresses
of the Stockholder Exchanges for written notices and formal communications. Section
16(c) would be amended to clarify that a Stockholder Exchange would be able to assign
its rights under the Stockholders Agreement only to a party to whom it would be
permitted to transfer its shares. In addition, Section 16(c) would be amended to provide
that OCC may only assign its repurchase rights under Section 6(b) or Section 6(d) of the
Stockholders Agreement. OCC would be able to assign such rights with respect to all or
a portion of the shares of stock owned by a Stockholder Exchange, and would be required

29

to provide the non-selling Stockholder Exchanges with a right of first refusal in
connection with any such contemplated assignment comparable to the secondary right of
first refusal applicable with respect to a voluntary sale by a Stockholder Exchange and
described above. Sections 16(f) and 16(g) would be amended to effectuate the
amendment and restatement of the existing Stockholders Agreement.
2.

Statutory Basis

OCC believes the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (“Act”),22 and the rules and regulations
thereunder, because by implementing the Capital Plan, OCC would ensure that it could
continue to promptly and accurately clear and settle securities transactions even if it
suffered significant operational losses. By ensuring that it maintains sufficient capital
and that it can replenish the capital in the event it falls below desirable levels, the Capital
Plan would also enable OCC to maintain safe and secure obligations, in compliance with
Rule 17Ad-22(d)(6).23 The proposed Capital Plan would also, as discussed in more detail
above, ensure OCC’s compliance with new regulatory requirements proposed by the
Commission seeking to promote the safe and reliable operation of registered clearing
agencies, and in particular proposed subsection (e)(15) of Rule 17Ad-22.24 The proposed
rule change is not inconsistent with the existing rules of OCC, including any other rules
proposed to be amended.

22

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(F).

23

17 CFR 240.17Ad-22(d)(6).

24

SEC Proposed Rules at 156, FR 29507, 29616 (May 22, 2014).
30

(B)

Clearing Agency’s Statement on Burden on Competition

OCC does not believe that the proposed rule change would impose any burden on
competition.25 OCC believes that the proposed rule change would not unfairly inhibit
access to OCC’s services or disadvantage or favor any particular user in relationship to
another user because the proposed changes relate to OCC’s plan for raising and
maintaining adequate capital from its owner exchanges, and therefore do not affect
clearing members’ or others’ access to OCC’s services or the nature of these services.
For the foregoing reasons, OCC believes that the proposed rule change is in the
public interest, would be consistent with the requirements of the Act applicable to
clearing agencies and would not impose a burden on competition.
(C)

Clearing Agency’s Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change
Received from Members, Participants, or Others

Written comments on the proposed rule change were not and are not intended to be
solicited with respect to the proposed rule change and none have been received.
III.

Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission
Action
Within 45 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or

within such longer period up to 90 days (i) as the Commission may designate if it finds
such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to
which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will:
(A)

by order approve or disapprove such proposed rule change, or

(B)

institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change
should be disapproved.

25

15 U.S.C. 78q-1(b)(3)(I).
31

The proposal shall not take effect until all regulatory actions required with respect
to the proposal are completed.26
IV.

Solicitation of Comments
Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments

concerning the foregoing, including whether the proposed rule change is consistent with
the Act. Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic Comments:


Use the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml); or



Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number SROCC-2015-02 on the subject line.

Paper Comments:


Send paper comments in triplicate to Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File Number SR-OCC-2015-02. This file number should
be included on the subject line if e-mail is used. To help the Commission process and
review your comments more efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission
will post all comments on the Commission’s Internet website
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml). Copies of the submission, all subsequent
amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed
with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule

26

OCC also filed proposals in this proposed rule change as an advance notice under
Section 806(e)(1) of the Payment, Clearing, and Settlement Supervision Act of
2010. 12 U.S.C. 5465(e)(1). See supra note 3.
32

change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld
from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for
website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549 on official business days between the hours of 10:00 am and
3:00 pm. Copies of the filing also will be available for inspection and copying at the
principal office of OCC and on OCC’s website at
http://www.theocc.com/components/docs/legal/rules_and_bylaws/sr_occ_15_02.pdf.
All comments received will be posted without change; the Commission does not edit
personal identifying information from submissions. You should submit only information
that you wish to make available publicly. All submissions should refer to File Number
SR-OCC-2015-02 and should be submitted on or before [insert date 21 days from
publication in the Federal Register].
For the Commission, by the Division of Trading and Markets, pursuant to
delegated authority.27

Jill M. Peterson
Assistant Secretary

27

17 CFR 200.30-3(a)(12).
33

