SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
[Release No. 34-74092; File No. 265-29]
SUBJECT:

Equity Market Structure Advisory Committee.

AGENCY:

Securities and Exchange Commission.

ACTION:

Notice of Federal Advisory Committee Establishment.

SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission intends to establish the
Securities and Exchange Commission Equity Market Structure Advisory Committee.
ADDRESSES: Written comments may be submitted by the following methods:
Electronic Comments
•

Use the Commission’s Internet submission form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/other.shtml); or

•

Send an e-mail message to rule-comments@sec.gov, including File No. 265-29 on
the subject line.

Paper Comments
•

Send paper comments to Brent J. Fields, Securities and Exchange Commission,
100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File No. 265-29. To help us process and review your
comments more efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all
comments on the Commission’s Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/other.shtml).
Comments also will be available for website viewing and printing in the Commission’s
Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business
days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. All comments received will be
posted without change; we do not edit personal identifying information from your

submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to make available
publicly.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:

Arisa Tinaves, Special Counsel,

Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington DC 20549-3628,
(202) 551-5676.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with the requirements of the
Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. – App., the Commission is publishing this
notice that the Chair of the Commission, with the concurrence of the other
Commissioners, intends to establish the Securities and Exchange Commission Equity
Market Structure Advisory Committee (the “Committee”). The Committee’s objective is
to provide the Commission with diverse perspectives on the structure and operations of
the U.S. equities markets, as well as advice and recommendations on matters related to
equity market structure.
No more than seventeen voting members will be appointed to the Committee.
Such members shall represent a cross-section of those directly affected by, interested in,
and/or qualified to provide advice to the Commission on matters related to equity market
structure. The Committee’s membership will be balanced fairly in terms of points of
view represented and functions to be performed.
The Committee may be established 15 days after publication of this notice in the
Federal Register by filing a charter for the Committee with the Committee on Banking,
Housing, and Urban Affairs of the United States Senate, the Committee on Financial
Services of the United States House of Representatives, and the Committee Management
Secretariat of the General Services Administration. A copy of the charter as so filed also

will be filed with the Chair of the Commission, furnished to the Library of Congress, and
posted on the Commission’s website at www.sec.gov.
The Committee will operate for two years from the date the charter is filed with
the appropriate entities unless the Commission directs that the Committee terminate on an
earlier date. Prior to the expiration of this two-year period, the Committee’s charter may
be re-established or renewed in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act.
The Committee will meet at such intervals as are necessary to carry out its
functions. The charter contemplates that the full Committee will meet four times
annually. Meetings of subgroups or subcommittees of the full Committee may occur
more frequently.
The charter will provide that the duties of the Committee are to be solely
advisory. The Commission alone will make any determinations of action to be taken and
policy to be expressed with respect to matters within the Commission’s authority as to
which the Committee provides advice or makes recommendations. The Chair of the
Commission affirms that the establishment of the Committee is necessary and in the
public interest.
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary
January 20, 2015

