UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15211
____________________________________
:
In the Matter of
:
:
GREGG C. LORENZO,
:
FRANCIS V. LORENZO, AND
:
CHARLES VISTA, LLC,
:
:
Respondents.
:
____________________________________:

PROPOSED AMENDED PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
1.
Purpose and Background. This amended proposed plan of distribution (the
“Plan”) has been developed pursuant to the Commission’s Order Making Findings
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Section
8A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 15(b), 21B, and 21C of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 as to Respondents Gregg C. Lorenzo (“Lorenzo”) and Charles
Vista, LLC (“Charles Vista”) (collectively “Respondents”) dated November 20, 2013
(the “Order”) (Securities Act Rel. No. 9480 (November 20, 2013)). The Plan
provides for the distribution of funds collected from the disgorgement, prejudgment
interest, and civil penalties paid pursuant to the Order. The Plan proposes to pay six
customers of Charles Vista each of whom suffered harm by virtue of the fraudulent
misrepresentations described in the Order and made by Respondents. The Order
describes and was based solely on misconduct pertaining to six specific customers.
The Plan has been amended from the Proposed Distribution Plan previously
noticed on March 30, 2015 (Exchange Act Rel. No. 74607 (March 30, 2015)) in order
to reflect recalculations of the percentages of the Eligible Customers’ (defined below)
pooled harm based on public comments and additional information received. The
Plan has also been amended in response to comments requesting a clarification as to
customers eligible to receive a distribution pursuant to the Plan.
The Order found that Respondents made fraudulent misrepresentations to
several customers of Charles Vista to induce them to invest in convertible debentures
issued by a start-up waste management company, Waste2Energy Holdings, Inc.
(“W2E”). The Order further found that Charles Vista had a considerable financial
interest in the debentures offering and was the exclusive placement agent for the
issuance of 12% W2E debentures. The debentures were convertible to W2E stock,
which is a penny stock. Additionally, the Order found that W2E’s financial situation
was precarious and W2E’s securities were extremely speculative because, among
other reasons, the company had millions of dollars of debt that was senior to the debt
W2E was issuing through the debentures offering. Finally, the Order found that after

Respondents knowingly or recklessly made fraudulent misrepresentations to several
Charles Vista customers, these customers invested in W2E debentures.
In the Order, Lorenzo and Charles Vista were jointly ordered to pay disgorgement
of $130,000 and prejudgment interest of $20,000. In addition, Lorenzo was ordered to
pay a civil penalty of $375,000 and Charles Vista was ordered to pay a civil penalty of
$4,350,000. In accordance with the Order, Lorenzo has paid $130,000 in
disgorgement, $20,000 in prejudgment interest, and a civil penalty of $375,000.
Charles Vista has not made any payments to date. The Order created a Fair Fund
pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended. The Fair
Fund is comprised of the disgorgement, interest, and penalties paid and to be paid by the
Respondents (the “Fair Fund”) and is for distribution to six affected customers of
Charles Vista who suffered harm by virtue of the Respondents’ fraudulent
misrepresentations (individually, each an “Eligible Customer;” collectively, “Eligible
Customers”). The Fair Fund is subject to the continuing jurisdiction and control of the
Commission and the Fair Fund is currently on deposit in a Commission designated
account at the United States Department of the Treasury (“U.S. Treasury”). The Plan
is subject to approval by the Commission, and the Commission retains jurisdiction
over the implementation of the Plan. Any outstanding payments made pursuant to the
Order and received after approval of the Plan will be added to the Fair Fund and
distributed in accordance with the Plan.
Under the Plan and unless additional funds are paid pursuant to the Order such
that the total amount available for distribution equals or exceeds the Harm Amount, as
defined in paragraph 7, a pro rata share of investors’ losses will be distributed to
Eligible Customers from the “Net Fair Fund,” which is the Fair Fund, less any reserve
for taxes, fees or other expenses of administering this Plan.
2.
Fund Administrator. Nichola L. Timmons, Assistant Director, Office
of Distributions in the Commission’s Division of Enforcement, is proposed to act as
the administrator of the Fair Fund (the “Fund Administrator”). As a Commission
employee, the Fund Administrator will receive no compensation from the Fair Fund
for her services in administering the Fair Fund. In accordance with Rule 1105(c) of
the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans (“Rules”), 17 C.F.R.
§§ 201.1100 through 201.1106, no bond is required since the Fund Administrator is a
Commission employee. In carrying out her duties, the Fund Administrator may be
assisted by other Commission staff acting under her supervision.
The Fund Administrator will, among other things: oversee the administration
of the Fair Fund, obtain mailing information for Eligible Customers, distribute money
from the assets of the Fair Fund in accordance with the Plan, resolve disputes, and
distribute the Fair Fund to Eligible Customers in accordance with the Plan. The Fund
Administrator will also cooperate with the Tax Administrator, defined in paragraph 3,
as necessary, prepare a final accounting with assistance from the Tax Administrator,
and provide the Tax Administrator with funds to pay tax liabilities and tax compliance
fees and costs, pursuant to the Omnibus Order Directing the Appointment of Tax
Administrator in Administrative Proceedings that Establish Distribution Funds
(Exchange Act Rel. No. 68683 (January 17, 2013)).

2

3.
Tax Administrator. The Commission has appointed Damasco and
Associates, LLP as the tax administrator (“Tax Administrator”) of the Fair Fund
(Exchange Act Rel. No. 72856 (August 15, 2014)). The Tax Administrator will be
compensated for reasonable costs and expenses from the Fair Fund in accordance with
its 2013-2015 Engagement Letter Agreement with the Commission. Tax obligations
will be paid out of the Fair Fund.
4.
Specification of Eligible Fair Fund Recipients. The Fund
Administrator will distribute the Net Fair Fund to those Eligible Customers that have
been harmed by the conduct described in the Order. Eligible Customers consist of six
customers who suffered harm by virtue of the conduct described in the Order and
were identified by the Commission staff during its investigation.
5.
No claims-made process. The Fair Fund is not being distributed
according to a claims-made process, so the procedures for making and approving
claims are not applicable.
6.
Qualified Settlement Fund. The Fair Fund constitutes a Qualified
Settlement Fund (“QSF”) under Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26
U.S.C. § 468B(g), and related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.
7.
Methodology for Determining Distribution Amounts. The Fund
Administrator will determine the amount to be distributed to each Eligible Customer
in the following manner. First, the Fund Administrator will determine, for each
affected customer, using information collected by the Commission staff, the harm
amount that each Eligible Customer incurred by virtue of the conduct described in the
Order (“Harm Amount”). The Harm Amount is calculated as the sum of actual
principal investments by Eligible Customers (“Investment Amount”), less any monies
received by Eligible Customers as settlements, insurance, or other payments in
connection with this matter from Respondents, or any other third party. Second, the
Fund Administrator will determine what percentage of the total pooled Harm
Amounts of all Eligible Customers is represented by each individual Eligible
Customer’s Harm Amount (“Pro Rata Share”). Finally, for each Eligible Customer,
the Fund Administrator will multiply the Pro Rata Share by the Net Fair Fund to
determine each Eligible Customer’s distribution amount (“Fair Fund Payment”).
In the view of the Fund Administrator, this methodology constitutes a fair and
reasonable allocation of the Fair Fund. Based on this methodology, it is anticipated
that there will be one distribution to the Eligible Customers, which will take place as
outlined in paragraph 9.

3

Based on this methodology, the individual Investment Amounts, Harm
Amounts, and percentages of pooled harm for each Eligible Customer are as follows:
Eligible
Customer

Investment
Amount

Third Party
Payment
Received

Harm
Amount

% of
Pooled
Harm of
All
Eligible
Customers

Eligible
Customer #1
Eligible
Customer #2
Eligible
Customer #3
Eligible
Customer #4
Eligible
Customer #5
Eligible
Customer #6

$41,800

None

$41,800

5.60%

$200,000

None

$200,000

26.81%

$125,000

$31,200

$93,800

12.57%

$200,000

None

$200,000

26.81%

$15,000

None

$15,000

2.01%

$195,400

None

$195,400

26.19%

TOTALS

$777,200

$31,200

$746,000

100%

8.
Procedures for Locating and Notifying Eligible Customers. On the
basis of information obtained by the Commission staff based on review and analysis
of applicable records, the Fund Administrator will seek to locate and confirm the
identity of all Eligible Customers. Within sixty (60) days of the Commission’s
approval of the Plan, the Fund Administrator will send each Eligible Customer a
notice regarding the Commission’s approval of the Plan, and, including as
appropriate, a statement characterizing the distribution, a link to the Plan posted on
the Commission’s website and instructions for requesting a copy of the Plan, a Harm
Amount calculation and a preliminary calculation of the Eligible Customer’s
distribution check amount (“Fair Fund Payment”), a description of the tax information
reporting and other related tax matters, the procedure for the distribution as set forth
in the Plan, and the name of the Fund Administrator to contact with questions
regarding the distribution (the “Plan Notice”). The Fund Administrator will
coordinate with the Tax Administrator to request information from each Eligible
Customer that is needed to accomplish the distribution in accordance with applicable
tax requirements relating to the Fair Fund.
If a Plan Notice and/or Fair Fund Payment are returned as undeliverable, the
Fund Administrator will make all reasonable efforts to ascertain an Eligible
Customer’s correct address. The Fund Administrator will then resend the Plan Notice
and/or Fair Fund Payment to the Eligible Customer’s new address within thirty (30)
days of receipt of the returned Plan Notice and/or Fair Fund Payment. If the Plan
Notice and/or Fair Fund Payment is returned again, and the Fund Administrator,
despite all reasonable efforts, is unable to find an Eligible Customer’s correct address,
the Eligible Customer will be removed from the distribution and the allocated amount
4

of the Fair Fund Payment will be added to the Net Fair Fund and may be distributed
to the remaining Eligible Customers. In no event will an Eligible Customer receive
from the Fair Fund more than the Eligible Customer’s Harm Amount.
9.
Distribution Timing. The Fund Administrator will use her best efforts
to start the distribution within one hundred and twenty (120) days of the Plan’s
approval.
10.
Bureau of the Fiscal Service; Validation and Approval of
Disbursement of the Fair Fund. The Fair Fund disbursement to Eligible Customers
will be implemented by the Commission and disbursed through the U.S. Treasury’s
Bureau of the Fiscal Service (“BFS”), which will mail checks or electronically
transfer funds to each payee as instructed by the Fund Administrator. The Fund
Administrator will compile the payee information and prepare a payment file to make
the disbursements through BFS. Pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6), the Fund Administrator
will obtain an order from the Commission to disburse the Fair Fund.
The Fund Administrator will work with BFS to obtain information about
uncashed checks, any returned items due to non-delivery, insufficient addresses,
and/or other deficiencies. The Fund Administrator is responsible for researching and
reconciling errors and reissuing payments when possible. The Fund Administrator
also is responsible for accounting for all payments. Checks issued by BFS will state
on their face that they are valid for one (1) year. If any checks issued are not cashed
within the one (1) year time period, the Fund Administrator will work with BFS to
identify all uncashed checks. In the event that there are uncashed checks, the Fund
Administrator will determine the extent to which, under the circumstances in this
distribution, it would be appropriate and feasible to make additional efforts to contact
investors holding such checks. Following the conclusion of any efforts by the Fund
Administrator to locate any such Eligible Customers, the amount of all uncashed
checks will be credited to the Fair Fund account and may, if ordered by the
Commission, be distributed to the remaining Eligible Customers.
11.
Accountings. When all funds have been disbursed, except for the
residual described in paragraph 16 of the Plan, the Fund Administrator will submit a
final accounting pursuant to Rule 1105(f) for the approval of the Commission prior to
termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the Fund Administrator. Since the
funds are being held in a Commission designated account at the U.S. Treasury, and
Commission staff is proposed as the Fund Administrator, no interim accountings will
be made.
12.
Expenses of Administration. Fees and other expenses of administering
the Plan will be paid from the Fair Fund.
13.
Amendments and Procedural Deadline Extensions. The Fund
Administrator will take reasonable and appropriate steps to distribute the Net Fair
Fund according to the Plan. If there are any changes to the Plan that are determined to
be material, Commission approval is required prior to implementation by amending
the Plan, which may be done upon the motion of any party, the Fund Administrator,
or upon the Commission’s own motion. Immaterial changes may be made by the

5

Fund Administrator. For good cause shown, the Fund Administrator may extend any
of the procedural dates set forth in the Plan.
14.
Procedure for the Receipt of Additional Funds. Should any
outstanding payments or any other additional funds be received for this matter by the
Commission prior to the Commission’s termination of the Fair Fund, such funds will
be added to the Net Fair Fund and distributed in accordance with the Plan’s
methodology in paragraph 7.
15.
Procedures for Disputing Amounts Received. Disputes will be limited
to the calculation of an Eligible Customers’ Harm Amount. Within thirty (30) days of
the date that the Plan Notice is sent to an Eligible Customer, the Fund Administrator
must receive a written communication detailing the dispute along with any supporting
documentation. The Fund Administrator will investigate the dispute, and such
investigation will include a review of the written dispute as well as any supporting
documentation. Within thirty (30) days of receipt of the written dispute, the Fund
Administrator will notify the Eligible Customer of her resolution of the dispute, which
will be final. This procedure will be set forth in the Plan Notice.
16.
Disposition of Undistributed Funds. A residual account within the Fair
Fund will be established for any amounts remaining after the final disbursement to
Eligible Customers from the Fair Fund. The residual account may include funds
reserved for future taxes and related expenses, distributions from checks that have not
been cashed, from checks that were not delivered or from funds returned to the
Commission, tax refunds for overpayment or for waiver of IRS penalties. All funds
remaining in the residual account will be transferred to the U.S. Treasury after the
final accounting is approved by the Commission.
17.
Termination of the Fair Fund. Following the final disbursement from
the Net Fair Fund to Eligible Customers, the Fund Administrator will make
arrangement for the final payment of taxes and Tax Administrator fees and will
submit a final accounting to the Commission. The Fair Fund will be eligible for
termination after all of the following have occurred: (1) a final accounting, in the
Division of Enforcement’s standard accounting form, has been submitted by the Fund
Administrator, and has been approved by the Commission; and (2) all taxes, fees, and
expenses have been paid. When the Commission has approved the final accounting,
staff will seek an order from the Commission: (1) to transfer the remaining residual
amounts to the U.S. Treasury; (2) to terminate the Fair Fund; and (3) to discharge the
Fund Administrator.
18.
Notice of Proposed Amended Plan and Opportunity for Comment. The
Notice of Proposed Amended Plan of Distribution and Opportunity for Comment (the
“Notice”) will be published in the SEC Docket and on the Commission’s website at
http://www.sec.gov/litigation/fairfundlist.htm. Any person or entity wishing to
comment on the Plan must do so in writing by submitting their comments within
thirty (30) days of the date of the Notice (i) to the Office of the Secretary, United
States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
20549-1090; (ii) by using the Commission’s Internet comment form
(www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or (iii) by sending an e-mail to rulecomments@sec.gov. Comments submitted by e-mail or via the Commission’s
6

website should include “Administrative Proceeding File Number 3-15211” in the
subject line. Comments received will be available to the public. Thus, persons should
only submit information that they wish to make publicly available.

7

