SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-73415; File No. SR-MSRB-2014-06)
October 23, 2014
Self-Regulatory Organizations; Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board; Notice of Filing of
Amendment No. 1 and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of a Proposed Rule Change, as
Modified by Amendment No. 1, Consisting of Proposed New Rule G-44, on Supervisory and
Compliance Obligations of Municipal Advisors; Proposed Amendments to Rule G-8, on Books
and Records to be Made by Brokers, Dealers and Municipal Securities Dealers; and Proposed
Amendments to Rule G-9, on Preservation of Records
I.

Introduction
On July 24, 2014, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (the “MSRB” or “Board”)

filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC” or “Commission”), pursuant to
Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Act”) 1 and Rule 19b-4 thereunder, 2 a
proposed rule change consisting of proposed new Rule G-44, on supervisory and compliance
obligations of municipal advisors and proposed amendments to Rule G-8, on books and records
to be made by brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers, and proposed amendments to
Rule G-9, on preservation of records. The proposed rule change was published for comment in
the Federal Register on August 5, 2014. 3
The Commission received eight comment letters on the proposal. 4 On October 17, 2014,

1

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1).

2

17 CFR 240.19b-4.

3

Securities Exchange Act Release No. 72706 (July 29, 2014) (the “Proposing Release”), 79
FR 45546 (August 5, 2014).

4

See Letters to Secretary, Commission, from Tamara K. Salmon, Senior Associate
Counsel, Investment Company Institute (“ICI”), dated August 19, 2014 (the “ICI Letter”);
David L. Cohen, Managing Director and Associate General Counsel, Securities Industry
and Financial Markets Association (“SIFMA”), dated August 21, 2014 (the “SIFMA
Letter”); Dave A. Sanchez (“Sanchez”), dated August 25, 2014 (the “Sanchez Letter”);
Michael Nicholas, Chief Executive Officer, Bond Dealers of America (“BDA”), dated

the MSRB responded to the comments 5 and filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule
change. 6 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on Amendment No. 1 to
the proposed rule change from interested persons and is approving the proposed rule change, as
modified by Amendment No. 1, on an accelerated basis.
II.

Description of the Proposed Rule Change
As further described in the Proposing Release, the MSRB states that the purpose of the

proposed rule change is to establish supervisory and compliance obligations of municipal
advisors when engaging in municipal advisory activities. Proposed Rule G-44 utilizes a
primarily principles-based approach to supervision and compliance in order to, among other
things, accommodate the diversity of the municipal advisor population, including small and
single-person entities. Proposed Rule G-44 is accompanied by proposed amendments to Rules

August 26, 2014 (the “BDA Letter”); Anonymous Attorney, dated August 26, 2014 (the
“Anonymous Attorney Letter”); Nathan R. Howard, Counsel, National Association of
Independent Public Finance Advisors (“NAIPFA”), dated August 26, 2014 (the “NAIPFA
Letter”); Cristeena G. Naser, Vice President, American Bankers Association (“ABA”),
dated August 26, 2014 (the “ABA Letter”); and Joshua Cooperman, Cooperman
Associates (“Cooperman”), dated August 30, 2014 (the “Cooperman Letter”).
5

See Letter to Secretary, Commission, from Michael L. Post, Deputy General Counsel,
MSRB, dated October 17, 2014 (the “MSRB Response Letter”), available at
http://www.sec.gov/comments/sr-msrb-2014-06/msrb201406-9.pdf.

6

See Letter to Secretary, Commission, from Michael L. Post, Deputy General Counsel,
MSRB, dated October 17, 2014 (the “MSRB Amendment Letter”), available at
http://www.sec.gov/comments/sr-msrb-2014-06/msrb201406-10.pdf. In Amendment No.
1, the MSRB partially amended the text of the original proposed rule change to (i) revise
paragraphs .01 and .02 of the Supplementary Material to Rule G-44 to expand the
applicability of the provision, requiring a municipal advisor’s written supervisory
procedures to address how its supervision is adequate even without having separate
supervisors, to account for instances of self-supervision that may occur in firms that are
not sole proprietorships; (ii) amend the text of Rule G-44(e) to reference Rule
G-8(h)(v)(A)-(E) rather than Rule G-8(h)(iii); and (iii) amend the text of Rule G-9(k) to
reference Rule 15Ba1-8(d) under the Act rather than Rule 15a1-8(d) under the Act.

2

G-8 and G-9 to establish fundamental books-and-records requirements for municipal advisors,
including those related to their supervisory and compliance obligations. 7
Proposed Rule G-44
In the Proposing Release, the MSRB stated that proposed Rule G-44 follows a widely
accepted model in the securities industry consisting of a reasonably designed supervisory system
complemented by the designation of a chief compliance officer (“CCO”). The proposed rule
draws on aspects of existing supervision and compliance regulation under other regimes,
including those for broker-dealers under rules of the MSRB and Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (“FINRA”) and for investment advisers under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940
(“Advisers Act”). 8
In summary, proposed Rule G-44 would require:
•

A supervisory system reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws;

•

Written supervisory procedures;

•

The designation of one or more municipal advisor principals to be responsible for
supervision;

•

Compliance processes reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws;

•

An annual certification regarding those compliance processes;

•

The designation of a CCO to administer those compliance processes; and

•

At least annual reviews of compliance policies and supervisory procedures.

7

See supra note 3.

8

Id.
3

The proposed amendments to Rules G-8 and G-9, in summary, would require each
municipal advisor to make and keep records of its:
•

Written supervisory procedures;

•

Designations of persons as responsible for supervision;

•

Written compliance policies;

•

Designations of persons as CCO;

•

Reviews of compliance policies and supervisory procedures; and

•

Annual certifications regarding compliance processes.

Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule G-44 is the core provision, which would require all
municipal advisors to establish, implement and maintain a system to supervise their municipal
advisory activities and those of their associated persons that is reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with all applicable securities laws and regulations, including applicable MSRB rules
(defined as “applicable rules”). Paragraph (a) specifies that final responsibility for proper
supervision rests with the municipal advisor. Subparagraph (a)(i) requires the establishment,
implementation, maintenance and enforcement of written supervisory procedures reasonably
designed to achieve compliance with applicable rules. Paragraph .01 of the Supplementary
Material specifies several factors that municipal advisors’ written supervisory procedures must
take into consideration, including the advisor’s size, organizational structure, nature and scope of
activities, number of offices, disciplinary and legal history of its associated persons, the likelihood
that associated persons may be engaged in relevant outside business activities, and any indicators
of irregularities or misconduct (i.e., “red flags”). This guidance allows municipal advisors to tailor
their supervisory procedures to, among other things, their size, particular business model and
structure. Paragraph .01 also requires in the case of a municipal advisor with any associated

4

persons permitted under all applicable law to supervise their own activities, the written
supervisory procedures must address the manner in which, in the absence of separate supervisory
personnel, such procedures are nevertheless reasonably designed to achieve compliance with
applicable rules. 9 Paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material emphasizes the flexibility of the
proposed rule to accommodate small municipal advisor firms, even those with only one
associated person. Proposed Rule G-44(a)(i) also specifies requirements to promptly amend
supervisory procedures (i) to reflect changes in applicable rules and (ii) as changes occur in the
municipal advisor’s supervisory system; and to communicate the procedures and amendments to
the municipal advisor’s relevant associated persons.
Proposed Rule G-44(a)(ii) would require municipal advisors to designate one or more
municipal advisor principals to be responsible for the supervision required by the proposed rule.
Paragraph .03 of the Supplementary Material specifies the authority and specific qualifications
required for municipal advisor principals designated as responsible for supervisory functions.
According to the proposed rule, they must have the authority to carry out the supervision for
which they are responsible, including the authority to implement the municipal advisor’s
established written supervisory procedures and take any other action necessary to fulfill their
responsibilities. They also must have sufficient knowledge, experience and training to understand
and effectively discharge their supervisory responsibilities.10 Paragraph .03 of the Supplementary

9

See supra note 6.

10

The MSRB intends to propose amendments to MSRB Rules G-2 and G-3 to create the
“municipal advisor principal” classification, define the term and require qualification in
accordance with the rules of the Board. The MSRB expects those changes to become
effective well in advance of the proposed implementation dates of the proposed rule
change. Although the MSRB does not expect a municipal advisor principal examination to
be in place by the time of the implementation dates of the proposed rule change, the
5

Material also specifies that, even if not designated as a supervisory principal, whether a person
has responsibility for supervision under the proposed rule would depend on whether, under the
facts and circumstances of a particular case, the person has the requisite degree of responsibility,
ability or authority to affect the conduct of the employee whose behavior is at issue.
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule G-44 would require municipal advisors to implement
processes to establish, maintain, review, test and modify written compliance policies and
supervisory procedures. Proposed Rule G-44(b) would specify that the reviews of compliance
policies and supervisory procedures must be conducted at least annually. Paragraph .04 of the
Supplementary Material would provide, however, that municipal advisors should consider the
need, in order to comply with all of the other requirements of the proposed rule, for more frequent
reviews. The paragraph also would provide guidance on what, at a minimum, municipal advisors
should consider during their reviews of compliance policies and supervisory procedures. These
considerations include any compliance matters that arose since the previous review, any changes
in municipal advisory activities and any changes in applicable law.
Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule G-44 would require municipal advisors to designate one
individual as their CCO. Paragraph .05 of the Supplementary Material would explain the role of a
CCO and the importance of that role. Specifically, a CCO is a primary advisor to the municipal
advisor on its overall compliance scheme and the policies and procedures that the municipal
advisor adopts in order to comply with applicable law. To fulfill this role, a CCO should have
competence in the process of (1) gaining an understanding of the services and activities that need
to be the subject of written compliance policies and written supervisory procedures; (2)

MSRB may develop such an examination in the future. The absence of such an
examination does not preclude the creation of the classification.

6

identifying the applicable rules pertaining to those services and activities; (3) developing policies
and procedures that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable law; and (4)
developing programs to test compliance with the municipal advisor’s policies and procedures. 11
Paragraph .05 would further explain that the CCO can be a principal of the firm or a person
external to the firm; though, in that case, the person must have the described competence and the
municipal advisor retains ultimate responsibility for its compliance obligations. This approach to
the CCO function in the proposed rule, which would give municipal advisors the option to
outsource the CCO role, follows the approach applicable to investment advisers under the
Advisers Act. 12
Paragraph .06 of the Supplementary Material specifies that the CCO, and any compliance
officers that report to the CCO, shall have responsibility for and perform the compliance functions
required by the proposed rule. Paragraph .07 of the Supplementary Material provides that a
municipal advisor’s CCO may hold any other position within the municipal advisor, including
senior management positions, so long as the person can discharge the duties of CCO in light of all
of the responsibilities of any other positions. This guidance is especially relevant to small
municipal advisors, including sole proprietorships and other one-person entities. It makes clear
that a single individual may, for example, serve under appropriate circumstances as chief
executive officer (“CEO”), supervisory principal and CCO. In addition, as discussed above, the
CCO may be external to the firm, such as an outside consultant.

11

These qualifications of a CCO draw on those specified in FINRA’s CCO requirement for
its member firms. See FINRA Rule 3130 Supplementary Material .05.

12

See Section 202(25) of the Advisers Act, 15 U.S.C. 80b-2(25), and Rule 206(4)-7, 17 CFR
275.206(4)-7.
7

Paragraph (d) of proposed Rule G-44 would require municipal advisors to have their
CEO(s) (or equivalent officer(s)) annually certify in writing that the municipal advisor has in
place processes to establish, maintain, review, test and modify written compliance procedures and
written supervisory procedures reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable rules.
FINRA member firms that also are municipal advisors are already required under FINRA Rule
3130 to make annually a substantially similar certification with respect to applicable federal
securities laws and regulations, including MSRB rules. In light of this existing FINRA
requirement, proposed Rule G-44(d) would provide for an exception from the annual certification
requirement for municipal advisors that are subject to a substantially similar FINRA requirement.
Paragraph .08 of the Supplementary Material provides that the execution of the certification and
any consultation rendered in connection with the certification does not by itself establish business
line responsibility.
Paragraph (e) of proposed Rule G-44 would provide an exemption for banks engaging in
municipal advisory activities in the exercise of bank fiduciary powers from Rule G-44 and the
related books and records requirements if the municipal advisor certifies in writing annually that
it is, with respect to those activities, subject to federal supervisory and compliance obligations and
books and record requirements that are substantially equivalent to the supervisory and compliance
obligations in Rule G-44 and the books and records requirements of Rule G-8(h)(v)(A)-(E). The
ability to so certify and utilize this exemption is provided because it is unnecessary for a
municipal advisor to comply with each other provision of proposed Rule G-44 if it is subject to
substantially equivalent supervisory and compliance obligations as part of the extensive federal
regulatory regime to which banks are already subject.

8

Paragraph (f) of proposed Rule G-44 would provide a definition of the term “municipal
advisor” for purposes of the rule as a person that is registered or required to be registered as a
municipal advisor under Section 15B of the Act and rules and regulations thereunder.
Proposed Amendments to Rules G-8 and G-9
The proposed amendments to Rules G-8 13 and G-9 would be the first revisions to those
rules to address the books and records that must be made and preserved by municipal advisors
registered or required to be registered with the SEC. As a fundamental element, new Rule
G-8(h)(i) would require each municipal advisor to keep all of the general business records
described in Exchange Act Rule 15Ba1-8(a)(1)-(8). New Rule G-8(h)(v) would require each
municipal advisor to make and keep records related to its supervisory and compliance obligations.
It would require each municipal advisor to make and keep its written supervisory procedures and
written compliance policies, records of designations of persons as CCO and of persons
responsible for supervision, records of reviews of its written compliance policies and written
supervisory procedures, annual certifications as to compliance processes, and, if applicable,
certifications regarding the exemption for federally regulated banks.
The proposed amendments to Rule G-9 would require each municipal advisor to preserve
the books and records described in Rule G-8(h), including records related to the municipal
advisor’s supervisory and compliance obligations, for a period of not less than five years. This
five-year preservation requirement would be consistent with the requirement of Exchange Act

13

Proposed Rule G-8(h) includes reserved subparagraphs (ii) - (iv) for books and records
provisions that the MSRB may propose in relation to other rules for municipal advisors.
The MSRB will make conforming changes to this proposal as appropriate depending on
relevant future rulemaking actions by the MSRB and SEC.

9

Rule 15Ba1-8 (on books and records to be made and maintained by municipal advisors). 14 New
subsection (h) to Rule G-9 would require, however, that records of the designations of persons
responsible for supervision and designations of persons as CCO be preserved for the period of
designation of each person designated and for at least six years following any change in such
designation. This six-year preservation requirement is supported by, among other things, the
importance of such documents in later ascertaining the identity of responsible persons during
particular periods of time. Moreover, it would be consistent with the current provisions of Rule
G-9 for records of similar designations by brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers.
The proposed amendments to existing Rule G-9(e) would expressly provide that municipal
advisors may retain records using electronic storage media or by other similar medium of record
retention, subject to the retrieval and reproduction requirements of Rule G-9. The allowance for
this means of compliance would be made generally applicable, so as to expressly accommodate
the use of electronic storage media by dealers as well as municipal advisors.
Proposed Rule G-9(i) would require compliance with Exchange Act Rule 15Ba1-8(b)(2)
and (c), 15 regarding records related to the formation and cessation of business. Proposed Rule
G-9(j) would require non-resident municipal advisors to comply with Exchange Act Rule
15Ba1-8(f), 16 regarding records of non-resident municipal advisors. Proposed Rule G-9(k) would
provide that whenever a record is preserved by a municipal advisor on electronic storage media, if
the manner of storage complies with Exchange Act Rule 15Ba1-8(d), 17 it will be deemed to be

14

See 17 CFR 240.15Ba1-8(b)(1).

15

17 CFR 240.15Ba1-8(b)(2) & (c).

16

17 CFR 240.15Ba1-8(f).

17

17 CFR 240.15Ba1-8(d).
10

preserved in a manner that is in compliance with the requirements of Rule G-9. This provision
would give municipal advisors the choice to comply with either the SEC’s or the MSRB’s
preservation requirements.
III.

Summary of Comments Received and the MSRB’s Response
As noted previously, the Commission received eight comment letters on the proposed

rule change and a response letter from the MSRB. 18 The commenters generally support the
proposed rule change. 19 However, some commenters asked for further clarification and provided
suggestions to the proposed rule change. 20 The MSRB has responded to the commenters, as
discussed below. 21
1. Flexibility for Small Municipal Advisors
BDA commented that proposed Rule G-44 provides too much flexibility for small firms
by allowing them to determine and make accommodations for themselves simply because of
their size, and that those accommodations should be circumscribed. 22 Alternatively, Cooperman
commented that the proposed Rule G-44 imposes regulatory burdens on small municipal
advisors and particularly sole proprietors that are not necessary, appropriate or logical to the
protection of the municipal clients of such advisors. 23 NAIPFA stated that proposed Rule G-44
appropriately accommodates small and single-person municipal advisors by, among other things,
18

See supra notes 4 and 5.

19

Id.

20

Id.

21

See MSRB Response Letter.

22

See BDA Letter.

23

See Cooperman Letter.

11

allowing supervisory systems to be tailored to the size of the firm. 24 However, NAIPFA
suggested exempting single-person firms from developing a compliance manual to the extent
such firms are not otherwise required to maintain policies pursuant to any other applicable
laws. 25 NAIPFA also believes the imposition of supervisory obligations on sole proprietors is
likely not necessary or appropriate since such individuals will be obligated to monitor their own
compliance thereby making a requirement that they maintain supervisory procedures
superfluous. 26
Sanchez stated that compliance with proposed Rule G-44(a) and (b), paragraph .04 of the
Supplementary Material and the associated recordkeeping requirements should be deemed a
sufficient supervisory system for municipal advisors with a single associated person. 27 Sanchez
suggested deleting the last sentence of paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material, which
requires that written supervisory procedures of municipal advisors with a single associated
person address the manner in which, in the absence of separate supervisory personnel, such
procedures are nevertheless reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable rules. 28
In response to comments, the MSRB acknowledged that proposed Rule G-44 contains
standards that may vary based on firm size and that the MSRB deliberately drafted the rule to
give firms flexibility to tailor their supervisory systems accordingly, striking an appropriate

24

See NAIPFA Letter.

25

Id.

26

Id.

27

See Sanchez Letter.

28

Id.

12

balance between burdens on, and flexibility for, small municipal advisors. 29 MSRB also stated
that the approach set forth in proposed Rule G-44 seems particularly appropriate for an industry
in which many participants are becoming regulated at the federal level for the first time. 30
With respect to paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material, the MSRB believes this
provision is important to ensuring all municipal advisors establish meaningful procedures that
will satisfy the minimum standard established by proposed Rule G-44. 31 The MSRB stated that
developing appropriate systems and documenting and following written procedures is a wellestablished practice among businesses, regardless of size, for facilitating compliance with
regulation in a broad range of other areas (e.g., taxes, human resources). Additionally, the MSRB
noted that FINRA’s consolidated supervision rule (FINRA Rule 3110) includes a substantially
similar requirement. Although the provision will always apply to sole proprietorships, the MSRB
believes it is relevant to other firms in which associated persons may be otherwise permitted to
supervise their own activities. Accordingly, the MSRB filed Amendment No. 1 to revise the rule
text to expand the applicability of the requirement to all firms with associated persons who
supervise their own activities. 32
2. Annual Certification
Several comment letters addressed the proposed annual certification requirement in
proposed Rule G-44. ICI supports the proposed annual certification requirement as drafted
because it is consistent with the requirements imposed on FINRA members pursuant to FINRA
29

See MSRB Response Letter.

30

Id.

31

Id.

32

See MSRB Amendment Letter.

13

Rule 3130(b). 33 Anonymous Attorney supports the exception from the annual certification for
municipal advisors that are subject to FINRA Rule 3130. 34 While BDA supports the MSRB’s
effort to ensure alignment of its annual certification requirement with FINRA Rule 3130, it
stated that proposed Rule G-44 should require all municipal advisors to complete a periodic selfcertification regarding the meeting of professional qualification standards by its associated
persons, as well as to certify to the municipal advisor’s ability to comply, and history of
complying, with all applicable regulatory requirements. 35 NAIPFA opposes any selfcertification requirement, unless some objective basis can be provided that indicates such a
requirement would result in a decrease in the number of compliance violations. 36
Sanchez commented that the regulatory purpose of the annual certification requirement as
to compliance processes in proposed Rule G-44(d) is unclear because the associated
recordkeeping requirements essentially already require the equivalent of an annual
certification. 37 In addition, Sanchez does not believe the annual certification would foster
discussion between persons responsible for compliance matters and upper management, and
questions whether such a provision is necessary for small municipal advisors, particularly sole
proprietors, in light of Section 15B(b)(2)(L)(iv) of the Act. 38 Finally, Sanchez believes there
would be no “harmonizing” benefit achieved by imposing the annual certification requirement
33

See ICI Letter.

34

See Anonymous Attorney Letter.

35

See BDA Letter.

36

See NAIPFA Letter.

37

See Sanchez Letter.

38

Id.

14

similar to FINRA’s requirement because the vast majority of registered municipal advisors are
not FINRA members, and FINRA members would be specifically exempted from proposed Rule
G-44(d). 39
In response to the comments, the MSRB stated that the certification requirement would
result in the creation, maintenance and modification of robust written supervisory procedures
that would promote compliance with all applicable rules. 40 The MSRB noted that requiring the
broader certification proposed by BDA would reduce the harmonization between the MSRB and
FINRA certifications, which is an aspect of the proposal that BDA and ICI specifically support. 41
The MSRB also noted that it would be an unnecessary burden at this time to require a broader
certification such as the one proposed by BDA. 42
In response to Sanchez’s comments, the MSRB stated that requiring each firm’s chief
executive officer (or equivalent officer) to provide an annual certification would help ensure that
compliance processes are given sufficient attention at the highest levels of management and
would help promote compliance, without adding a significant burden. 43 The MSRB further stated
that the annual certification requirement will foster discussion between compliance personnel
and upper management, as it creates accountability for, and incentivizes, the chief executive
officer (or equivalent officer) to ensure that the certification is truthful and otherwise satisfies

39

Id.

40

See MSRB Response Letter.

41

Id.

42

Id.

43

Id.

15

proposed Rule G-44(d). 44 The MSRB acknowledged that the benefit from certification of
fostering discussion does not exist in sole proprietorships and perhaps some very small firms, but
stated that the benefits from certification can extend beyond fostering such discussion. 45 The
MSRB believes the annual certification requirement would help ensure that municipal advisors
have in place a compliance framework that would allow them to adapt compliance efforts to an
evolving business and regulatory environment, and promote prompt maintenance and
modification of compliance programs. 46 In addition, the MSRB believes this requirement
includes multiple accommodations for small municipal advisors and is consistent with Section
15B(b)(2)(L)(iv) of the Act. 47
3. Comparison to Rule G-27
Sanchez suggested replacing the proposed timing standard for amending written
supervisory procedures and communicating such amendments to associated persons (i.e.,
“promptly”) to the standard in MSRB Rule G-27(c)(iii) (i.e., “as appropriate within a reasonable
time after changes occur”). 48 Sanchez stated the Rule G-27 standard is more reasonable and will
be less confusing for entities that are registered as both broker-dealers and municipal advisors. 49
Sanchez also stated the proposed standard of “prompt amendment” and “prompt

44

Id.

45

Id.

46

Id.

47

Id.

48

See Sanchez Letter.

49

Id.

16

communication” is vague and more burdensome than the standard the MSRB requires of other
regulated activities without any apparent justification. 50
The MSRB responded that the provision requiring prompt amendments of written
supervisory procedures and prompt communication of such amendments to associated persons is
intended to harmonize proposed Rule G-44 with FINRA’s rule on the maintenance of
supervisory procedures in its consolidated supervision rule. 51 The MSRB recognizes the
proposed timing standards are different than those provided in the analogous provision in Rule
G-27 and the MSRB may consider amending Rule G-27 in the future to harmonize it with
proposed Rule G-44(a)(i) and the FINRA rule.
4. Outsourcing CCO Function
BDA commented that the language in paragraph .05 of the Supplementary Material to
proposed Rule G-44, providing that a municipal advisor retains the ultimate responsibility for its
compliance obligations, whether the CCO is outsourced or not, should be incorporated into the
rule text. 52 BDA believes some firms will take a strict reading of the rule text without
appropriately considering the Supplementary Material as a component of their compliance with
proposed Rule G-44. 53
The MSRB responded that it is not relocating the provision into the rule text because the
Supplementary Material would be part of new Rule G-44, if approved, and the provision’s
location there is intended to improve the readability of the rule and does not affect the weight,
50

Id.

51

See MSRB Response Letter.

52

See BDA Letter.

53

Id.

17

significance or enforceability of the provision. 54 Moreover, the MSRB stated that BDA’s
comment that some firms would not appropriately consider the Supplementary Material when
reading proposed Rule G-44 is speculative in nature and, if fully accepted, could suggest a need
to remove all supplementary material from the rules of the MSRB and other self-regulatory
organizations. 55
5. Bank Trust Departments and Trust Companies
The ABA praised the MSRB’s exemption in the proposed Rule G-44(e) for banks that
certify they are subject to federal supervisory and compliance obligations and books and records
requirements that are substantially equivalent to the supervisory and compliance obligations of
proposed Rule G-44 and the books and records requirements of Rule G-8(h)(v)(A)-(E), and the
ABA requested that a similar exemption be available for state-chartered trust companies. 56
The MSRB responded that it would not extend the exemption of proposed Rule G-44 to
bank trust departments or trust companies that are not federally regulated. 57 The MSRB stated
that the need for proposed Rule G-44 arises from the MSRB’s regulatory oversight of municipal
advisors as provided under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, 58
which grants the MSRB broad rulemaking authority to develop a new, federal regulatory
framework for municipal advisors. 59 The MSRB believes all municipal advisors should be
54

See MSRB Response Letter.

55

Id.

56

See ABA Letter.

57

See MSRB Response Letter.

58

Pub. Law No. 111-2013, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

59

See MSRB Response Letter.
18

required, at a minimum, to adhere to federal supervisory and compliance obligations that are
substantially equivalent to those set forth in proposed Rule G-44, regardless of their other
business activities and regulatory obligations. 60 MSRB noted that, as ABA acknowledges, not
all states have adopted fiduciary regulations which are substantially based on the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency’s (“OCC”) rules and not all such state regulations are identical to
the OCC’s rules. 61 As a result of this lack of consistency between, and potential gaps in, state
regulatory regimes, the MSRB stated it was not extending the exemption of proposed Rule G44(e) to bank trust departments or trust companies that are not federally regulated with regard to
relevant activities.
6. Recordkeeping Requirements
SIFMA supports the proposed amendments to Rules G-8 and G-9 which it believes are
reasonable and in line with existing MSRB recordkeeping and record retention requirements. 62
NAIPFA requested that the proposed amendments to Rule G-9(h) be amended to state that the
records described in Rule G-8(h)(v)(B) and (D) shall be preserved for the duration of a person’s
designation as a supervisor and/or CCO and for at least five years following any change in such
designation. 63 NAIPFA stated that establishing a six-year requirement when all other similar
retention requirements are five years creates an inconsistent and overly complex regulatory
regime that is not likely to achieve any appreciable benefit for municipal entities or obligated

60

Id.

61

Id.

62

See SIFMA Letter.

63

See NAIPFA Letter.

19

persons. 64 Sanchez also suggests a five-year requirement for such records because he believes
imposing a six-year period of record retention is an unnecessary complexity. 65
In response to comments, the MSRB stated there is a six-year retention period for records
relating to designations of persons responsible for supervision and as CCO to be consistent with
the current provisions of Rule G-9 for records of similar designations by brokers, dealers and
municipal securities dealers. 66 MSRB further stated that the longer requirement is supported by
the importance of such records in ascertaining the identity of responsible persons during
particular periods of time, including for purposes of examination and enforcement. 67
7. Requests for Clarification and Guidance
Anonymous Attorney requested clarification on three issues: (1) whether a municipal
advisor and investment advisor (“MA/IA”) firm’s compliance manual must have two separate
sets of written supervisory procedures for municipal advisor and investment advisor activities,
and, if so, whether it would be permissible to incorporate by reference applicable existing
procedures that apply to investment adviser activities, (2) whether the annual review of the
municipal advisor and investment advisor compliance processes may be conducted jointly, and
(3) whether a principal, designated pursuant to proposed Rule G-44(a)(ii), may be designated by
title or position, instead of as a specific individual, and, if so, whether it would be acceptable to
identify a principal by reference to a separate document or record. 68
64

Id.

65

See Sanchez Letter.

66

See MSRB Response Letter.

67

Id.

68

See Anonymous Attorney Letter.
20

The MSRB responded that it used a primarily principles-based approach to proposed
Rule G-44 to afford municipal advisors flexibility in determining the lowest cost means to meet
regulatory objectives. 69 Accordingly, the MSRB believes an MA/IA firm could establish and
conduct its review of written supervisory procedures and compliance policies, in the manner it
deems best, and where requirements are substantially similar, referencing how the firm will
comply with applicable municipal advisor and investment advisor standards may be
appropriate. 70 However, the MSRB believes that separate written supervisory procedures for
municipal advisors will need to exist given that the regulatory regimes are not identical. 71 The
MSRB believes the flexibility of proposed Rule G-44 extends to a firm’s designation of the
appropriate principal(s). 72
8. Implementation Date
SIFMA requested no less than six months as an implementation period for proposed Rule
G-44. 73 NAIPFA requested the proposed Rule G-44 have an effective date that is at least ninety
days following the date on which it is enacted. 74 BDA requested that the implementation period
be delayed until six months after the SEC has approved all municipal advisor rules and
regulations. 75
69

See MSRB Response Letter.

70

Id.

71

Id.

72

Id.

73

See SIFMA Letter.

74

See NAIPFA Letter.

75

See BDA Letter.
21

The proposed rule sets forth an implementation period of six months following the
Commission’s approval of the proposal except for proposed Rule G-44(d) which municipal
advisors would be required to implement eighteen months after the Commission approval date.
The MSRB responded that it does not intend to delay implementation of the proposed Rule G-44
until all municipal advisor rules have been approved by the SEC. Municipal advisors are
currently subject to applicable federal securities laws and the MSRB believes it is important for
firms to have a supervisory system and compliance processes in place to foster compliance with
those laws and that can be updated as new rules are adopted. 76
IV.

Discussion and Commission Findings
The Commission has carefully considered the proposed rule change, as modified by

Amendment No. 1, as well as the eight comment letters received and the MSRB’s response. The
Commission finds that the proposed rule change, as amended by Amendment No. 1, is consistent
with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the
MSRB.
In particular, the proposed rule change is consistent with Sections 15B(b)(2),
15B(b)(2)(A)(i) and 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act. Section 15B(b)(2) of the Act provides that MSRB
shall propose and adopt rules to effect the purposes of that title with respect to transactions in
municipal securities effected by brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers and advice
provided to or on behalf of municipal entities or obligated persons by brokers, dealers, municipal
securities dealers, and municipal advisors with respect to municipal financial products, the
issuance of municipal securities, and solicitations of municipal entities or obligated persons

76

See MSRB Response Letter.

22

undertaken by brokers, dealers, municipal securities dealers. 77 Section 15B(b)(2)(A)(i) of the Act
provides that the MSRB’s rules shall appropriately classify municipal securities brokers,
municipal securities dealers, and municipal advisors (taking into account relevant matters,
including types of business done, nature of securities other than municipal securities sold, and
character of business organization), and persons associated with municipal securities brokers,
municipal securities dealers, and municipal advisors. 78 Section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act requires
that the MSRB’s rules be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to
promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons
engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating
transactions in municipal securities and municipal financial products, to remove impediments to
and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities and municipal
financial products, in general, to protect investors, municipal entities, obligated persons, and the
public interest. 79 The proposed rule requires municipal advisors to adopt a supervisory structure
and compliance processes in order to help ensure knowledge of, and compliance with, applicable
securities laws and regulations, including the Commission’s registration, form submission and
recordkeeping requirements for municipal advisors. 80 The Commission believes that supervision
and compliance functions are fundamental to preventing securities law violations from occurring,
and promoting early detection and prompt remediation of violations when they do occur.
The Commission also finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section
77

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2).

78

15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(A)(i).

79

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(C).

80

See Registration of Municipal Advisors, Rel. No. 34-70462 (Sept. 20, 2013) (“Municipal
Advisor Registration Adopting Release”), 78 FR 67467 (Nov. 12, 2013).
23

15B(b)(2)(L)(iv), in that it does not impose a regulatory burden on small municipal advisors that
is not necessary or appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors, municipal
entities, and obligated persons. 81 While the proposed rule change would affect all municipal
advisors, including small municipal advisors, it is a necessary and appropriate regulatory burden
in order to ensure knowledge of and compliance with applicable securities laws and regulations.
The proposed rule is designed to provide flexibility to small municipal advisor firms, including
those with only one associated person. Paragraph .02 of the Supplementary Material provides
that a municipal advisor with only one associated person can have a sufficient supervisory system
under proposed Rule G-44. Under the same paragraph, one person may be designated as
responsible for supervision and the rule would allow for written supervisory procedures to be
tailored based on factors such as the size of the firm.
In addition, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section
15B(b)(2)(G) of the Act which provides that the MSRB’s rules shall prescribe records to be made
and kept by municipal advisors and the periods for which such records shall be preserved. 82 The
proposed rule change would require each municipal advisor to make and keep all of the general
business records described in Exchange Act Rule 15Ba1-8(a)(1)-(8) as well as records of written
supervisory procedures and compliance policies, designations of persons as CCO and of persons
responsible for supervision, reviews of the adequacy of written compliance policies and written
supervisory procedures, the annual certifications as to compliance processes, and, if applicable,
annual certifications regarding the exemption for federally regulated fiduciary activities of banks.
The proposed rule change also contains preservation requirements for the required records.
81

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(L)(iv).

82

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(G).

24

In approving the proposed rule change, the Commission has considered the proposed
rule’s impact on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. 83 The Commission believes the
proposed rule change includes accommodations that help promote efficiency such as an
exemption for federally regulated banks in proposed Rule G-44(e) and an exemption to the annual
certification requirement for municipal advisors that are subject to a substantially similar
certification requirement by FINRA.
The Commission believes the proposed rule takes into account competitive concerns that
could arise as a result of the costs associated with the supervision and compliance requirements
that could lead some municipal advisors to exit the market, curtail their activities or consolidate
with other firms. By utilizing a primarily principles-based approach to supervision and
compliance, the proposed rule is designed to provide flexibility to small municipal advisor firms,
including those with only one associated person, allowing municipal advisors to tailor their
supervisory procedures to, among other things, their size, particular business model and structure.
Moreover, the Commission continues to believe “that the market for municipal advisory services
is likely to remain competitive despite the potential exit of municipal advisors, consolidation of
municipal advisors, or lack of new entrants into the market.” 84
The Commission believes that the effect of the proposed rule is beneficial and that the
changes will enhance investor confidence by promoting robust supervisory policies and
procedures, programs and controls that can be flexibly applied to account for the diversity of the
municipal advisor population, including small municipal advisors and sole proprietorships.
As noted above, the Commission received eight comment letters on the filing. The
83

15 U.S.C. 78c(f).

84

Municipal Advisor Registration Adopting Release, 78 FR 67467, at 67608.
25

Commission believes that the MSRB, through its responses and through proposed changes in
Amendment No. 1, has addressed commenters’ concerns.
For the reasons noted above, including those discussed in the MSRB Response Letter and
MSRB Amendment Letter, the Commission believes that the proposed rule change, as amended
by Amendment No. 1, is consistent with the Act.
V.

Solicitation of Comments on Amendment No. 1
Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the

foregoing, including whether Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change is consistent with the
Act. Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:
• Use the Commission's Internet comment form http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml; or
• Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number
SR-MSRB- 2014-06 on the subject line.
Paper comments:
• Send paper comments in triplicate to Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100
F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
All submissions should refer to File Number SR-MSRB-2014-06. This file number should be
included on the subject line if e-mail is used. To help the Commission process and review your
comments more efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all
comments on the Commission’s Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml). Copies
of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the
proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications
relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those

26

that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be
available for website viewing and printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F
Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549 on official business days between the hours of 10:00 am and
3:00 pm. Copies of the filing also will be available for inspection and copying at the principal
office of the MSRB. All comments received will be posted without change; the Commission
does not edit personal identifying information from submissions. You should submit only
information that you wish to make available publicly. All submissions should refer to File
Number SR-MSRB-2014-06 and should be submitted on or before [insert date 21 days from
publication in the Federal Register].
VI.

Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change as Modified by Amendment No. 1
The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change, as amended

by Amendment No. 1, prior to the 30th day after the date of publication of notice in the Federal
Register. As discussed above, Amendment No. 1 amends the proposed rule change by: (i)
revising paragraphs .01 and .02 of the Supplementary Material to Rule G-44 to no longer limit
the requirement in paragraph .02 that written supervisory procedures address the manner in
which, in the absence of separate supervisory personnel, such procedures are nevertheless
reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable rules for municipal advisors with a
single person and expand its application to apply to all firms with any associated person
permitted under applicable law to supervise their own activities and move the text from
paragraph .02 or paragraph .01 of the Supplementary Material in light of the revised scope of the
provisions; (ii) amending the text of Rule G-44(e) to reference Rule G-8(h)(v)(A)-(E) rather than
Rule G-8(h)(iii); and (iii) amending the text of Rule G-9(k) to reference Rule 15Ba1-8(d) under

27

the Act rather than Rule 15a1-8(d) under the Act. 85
The MSRB has proposed the revisions included in item (i) of the previous paragraph to
expand the applicability of the provision, requiring a municipal advisor’s written supervisory
procedures to address how its supervision is adequate even without having separate supervisors,
to account for instances of self-supervision that may occur in firms that are not sole
proprietorships. The MSRB believes the revision more properly identifies and captures the
subset of municipal advisors for which the written supervisory procedures must address the
additional matter. The MSRB is proposing the two technical revisions in items (ii) and (iii) in
the previous paragraph to indicate the correct cross-references.
The Commission believes that Amendment No. 1 does not alter the substance of the
original proposed rule change and are consistent with the purpose of the original proposed rule
change and do not raise significant new issues. Accordingly, the Commission finds good cause
for approving the proposed rule change, as modified by Amendment No. 1, on an accelerated
basis, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act.

85

See MSRB Amendment Letter.

28

VII.

Conclusion
IT IS THEREFORE ORDERED, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 86 that the

proposed rule change (SR-MSRB-2014-06), as modified by Amendment No. 1, be, and hereby is,
approved on an accelerated basis.
For the Commission, pursuant to delegated authority. 87

Kevin M. O’Neill
Deputy Secretary

86

15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2).

87

17 CFR 200.30-3(a)(12).
29

