SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 229, 240, 249
Release No. 34-74835; File No. S7-07-15
RIN 3235-AL00
PAY VERSUS PERFORMANCE
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Proposed rule.
SUMMARY: We are proposing amendments to Item 402 of Regulation S-K to
implement Section 14(i) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”), as
added by Section 953(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act (the “Dodd-Frank Act”). Section 14(i) directs the Commission to adopt rules
requiring registrants to disclose in a clear manner the relationship between executive
compensation actually paid and the financial performance of the registrant. The proposed
disclosure would be required in proxy or information statements in which executive
compensation disclosure pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K is required. The
proposed disclosure requirements would not apply to emerging growth companies or
foreign private issuers.
DATES: Comments should be received on or before July 6, 2015.

ADDRESSES: Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:

•

Use the Commission’s Internet comment form
(http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml); or

•

Send an E-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number S707-15 on the subject line; or

•

Use the Federal eRulemaking Portal (http://www.regulations.gov). Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.

Paper comments:
•

Send paper comments to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File Number S7-07-15. This file number should be
included on the subject line if e-mail is used. To help us process and review your
comments more efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all
comments on the Commission’s website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/proposed.shtml).
Comments are also available for website viewing and printing in the Commission’s
Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549, on official business
days between the hours of 10:00 am and 3:00 pm. All comments received will be posted
without change; we do not edit personal identifying information from submissions. You
should submit only information that you wish to make available publicly.
Studies, memoranda or other substantive items may be added by the Commission
or staff to the comment file during this rulemaking. A notification of the inclusion in the
comment file of any such materials will be made available on the SEC’s website. To
ensure direct electronic receipt of such notifications, sign up through the “Stay
Connected” option at www.sec.gov to receive notifications by e-mail.

2

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Eduardo A. Aleman, Special
Counsel, in the Office of Rulemaking, Division of Corporation Finance, at (202) 5513430, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: We are proposing to add new paragraph (v) to
Item 402 of Regulation S-K. 1
Table of Contents
I.

Introduction ................................................................................................................. 4

II. Proposed Amendment.................................................................................................. 9
A. Introduction .............................................................................................................. 9
B. New Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K ...................................................................... 12
C. Executives Covered ................................................................................................ 26
D. Determination of “Executive Compensation Actually Paid” ................................. 30
E. Measure of Performance ........................................................................................ 45
F. Time Period Covered.............................................................................................. 49
G. Clear Description .................................................................................................... 54
H. Smaller Reporting Companies................................................................................ 55
III. General Request for Comments ................................................................................. 59
IV. Economic Analysis .................................................................................................... 60
A. Background ............................................................................................................ 60
B. Baseline .................................................................................................................. 65
C. Discussion of Economic Effects............................................................................. 77
1. Benefits............................................................................................................... 80
2. Costs ................................................................................................................... 88
3. Implementation Alternatives .............................................................................. 94
D. Request for Comment ........................................................................................... 114
V. Paperwork Reduction Act ........................................................................................ 118
A. Background .......................................................................................................... 118
B. Summary of Collection of Information Requirements ......................................... 119
C. Paperwork Reduction Act Burden Estimates ....................................................... 122
1

17 CFR 229.402.

3

D. Solicitation of Comments ..................................................................................... 123
VI. Initial Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis ............................................................. 124
VII. Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act ........................................... 129
VIII.

I.

Statutory Authority and Text of Proposed Amendments ................................. 129

Introduction
We are proposing amendments today as required by Section 953(a) of the Dodd-

Frank Act. 2 Section 953(a) added Section 14(i) 3 to the Exchange Act, 4 which directs the
Commission to adopt rules requiring registrants 5 to disclose in any proxy or consent
solicitation material for an annual meeting of shareholders a clear description of any
compensation required to be disclosed by the issuer under Item 402 of Regulation S-K 6
(or any successor thereto), including information that shows the relationship between
executive compensation actually paid and the financial performance of the registrant,
taking into account any change in the value of the shares of stock and dividends of the
registrant and any distributions. A report by the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing
and Urban Affairs indicated that the rules mandated by Section 953(a) of the Dodd-Frank
Act were not intended to be overly-prescriptive and that Congress recognized that there

2

Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010).

3

15 U.S.C. 78n(i).

4

15 U.S.C. 78a et seq.

5

Section 102(a)(2) of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act (“JOBS Act”) amended Exchange
Act Section 14(i) to exclude registrants that are “emerging growth companies” from the payversus-performance disclosure requirements. Pub. L. No. 112-106, 126 Stat. 306 (2012). Section
3(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)] defines an “emerging growth company” as an issuer
with total annual gross revenues of less than $1 billion during its most recently completed fiscal
year.

6

17 CFR 229.402.

4

could be many ways to disclose the relationship between executive compensation and
financial performance of the registrant. 7
Section 953(a) was enacted contemporaneously with other executive
compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that are “designed to address
shareholder rights and executive compensation practices.” 8 Section 951 of the DoddFrank Act enacted new Exchange Act Section 14A 9 which requires that not less than
every three years a proxy or consent or authorization for an annual or other meeting of
the shareholders for which the proxy solicitation rules of the Commission require
compensation disclosure shall include a separate resolution subject to a non-binding
shareholder vote to approve the compensation of executives. Pursuant to the mandate in
Section 14A, we adopted rules requiring a shareholder advisory vote to approve the
compensation of the named executive officers (“NEOs”), as disclosed pursuant to Item
402 of Regulation S-K, at an annual or other meeting of shareholders at which directors
will be elected and for which such executive compensation disclosure is required. 10
We believe that the pay-versus-performance disclosure mandated by Section
953(a), and the disclosure of the ratio of the median annual total compensation of
employees to the annual total compensation of the chief executive officer mandated by
7

See Report of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs to accompany S.
3217, S. REP. NO. 111-176, at 135 (2010) (the “Senate Report”) which stated with respect to
Section 953(a): “This disclosure about the relationship between executive compensation and the
financial performance of the issuer may include a clear graphic comparison of the amount of
executive compensation and the financial performance of the issuer or return to investors and may
take many forms.”

8

Dodd-Frank Act, H.R. Rep. 111-517, at 872 (2010).

9

15 U.S.C. 78n-1.

10

See Shareholder Approval of Executive Compensation and Golden Parachute Compensation,
Release No. 33-9178 (Jan. 25, 2011) [76 FR 6010] (Feb. 2, 2011).

5

Section 953(b), 11 are intended to provide shareholders with information that will help
them assess a registrant’s executive compensation when they are exercising their rights to
cast advisory votes on executive compensation under Exchange Act Section 14A. The
Senate Report accompanying the statute references shareholder interest in the relationship
between executive pay and performance as well as the general benefits of transparency of
executive pay practices. 12
In that regard, the disclosure mandated by Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act will
give shareholders a new metric for assessing a registrant’s executive compensation
relative to its financial performance. Currently, Item 402 of Regulation S-K specifies the
information that must be included when the applicable form or schedule requires
executive compensation disclosure. Information on financial performance is required by
other items throughout Regulation S-K, including in Item 201(e), 13 Item 301, 14 Item
302 15 and Item 303. 16 There is currently no requirement to disclose specific information
showing the relationship between executive compensation actually paid and the financial
performance of the registrant. Instead, Item 402 of Regulation S-K contains detailed
requirements for the disclosure of executive compensation and more principles-based
11

We proposed rules to implement Section 953(b), see Pay Ratio Disclosure, Release No. 33-9452
(Sept. 18, 2013) [78 FR 60560] (Oct. 1, 2013).

12

The Senate Report includes the following with respect to Section 953 of the Dodd-Frank Act: “It
has become apparent that a significant concern of shareholders is the relationship between
executive pay and the company’s financial performance…The Committee believes that these
disclosures will add to corporate responsibility as firms will have to more clearly disclose and
explain executive pay.” See Senate Report, supra note 7.

13

17 CFR 229.201(e), Performance Graph.

14

17 CFR 229.301, Selected Financial Data.

15

17 CFR 229.302, Supplementary Financial Information.

16

17 CFR 229.303, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.

6

disclosure requirements regarding the relationship between pay and performance. The
Compensation Discussion and Analysis (“CD&A”) required by Item 402(b) of
Regulation S-K requires registrants to provide an explanation of “all material elements of
the registrant’s compensation of the named executive officers.” 17 With respect to
performance, Item 402(b)(2) includes non-exclusive examples of information that may be
material, including (i) specific items of corporate performance taken into account in
setting compensation policies and making compensation decisions; (ii) how specific
forms of compensation are structured and implemented to reflect these items of the
registrant’s performance; and (iii) how specific forms of compensation are structured and
implemented to reflect the NEO’s individual performance and/or individual contribution
to these items of the registrant’s performance. 18
The disclosure required by Exchange Act Section 14(i) can supplement the
discussion in the CD&A as part of the shareholder’s evaluation of the registrant’s
executive compensation practices and policies, including for purposes of the shareholder
advisory vote on executive compensation. The proposed amendment provides a factual
description of how the executive compensation actually paid related to the financial
performance of the registrant. 19 This disclosure may provide a useful point of
comparison for the analysis provided in the CD&A about a compensation committee’s
approach to linking pay and performance. We also believe that the proposed disclosure
17

17 CFR 229.402(b)(1).

18

17 CFR 229.402(b)(2)(v)-(vii).

19

We recognize that financial performance of the registrant is a broad term and can mean different
things to different registrants. Throughout this release, we use the term “financial performance” to
refer to the financial performance of the registrant as required to be disclosed by new Section 14(i)
of the Exchange Act, which we propose to measure by cumulative total shareholder return as
defined in Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K. See Section II.E below.

7

may provide relevant information to shareholders when voting in an election of directors.
By helping to inform a shareholder’s assessment of a registrant’s executive
compensation, the new disclosure may help shareholders evaluate the directors’ oversight
of this important area.
As with other Dodd-Frank Act rulemakings, we have sought comment from the
public prior to the issuance of a proposing release. 20 We have considered the preproposal comment letters received to date. Commenters were divided on whether we
should provide specific rules on how the proposed disclosure must be prepared or
whether we should allow registrants flexibility in determining how to disclose the
relationship between pay and performance. Some commenters believed that we should
propose specific requirements to encourage consistency and comparability across
registrants. 21 Other commenters were supportive of an approach to pay-versusperformance disclosure in which our rules would not provide specific requirements, but
would allow registrants to determine the substance of such disclosure and how such
disclosure should be presented. 22
As discussed in more detail below, our proposed amendments would require
registrants to provide disclosure that can be compared across registrants, while also
continuing to allow registrants to supplement their disclosure about pay-versus20

Comments related to the executive compensation provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are available
at http://www.sec.gov/comments/df-title-ix/executive-compensation/executivecompensation.shtml.

21

See letters from Pay Governance LLC (“Pay Governance”), Farient Advisors (“Farient”),
Compensia, Inc. (“Compensia”), Meridian Compensation Partners (“Meridian”), MDU Resources,
Inc. (“MDU”) and Shareholder Value Advisors, Inc. (October 4, 2010) (“SVA I”).

22

See letters from the Center on Executive Compensation (September 1, 2010) (“CEC I”), American
Bar Association (“ABA”), Protective Life Corporation (“Protective Life”), ClearBridge
Compensation Group (“ClearBridge”) and Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP (“Davis Polk”).

8

performance to reflect the specific situation of the registrant and its industry. Throughout
the release we seek comment on this approach, and whether alternative approaches
should be considered to accomplish the objectives of Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act.
II.

Proposed Amendment
A.

Introduction

We are proposing new Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K that would require a
registrant to provide a clear description of (1) the relationship between executive
compensation actually paid to the registrant’s NEOs and the cumulative total shareholder
return (TSR) of the registrant, and (2) the relationship between the registrant’s TSR and
the TSR of a peer group chosen by the registrant, over each of the registrant’s five most
recently completed fiscal years.
The proposed amendments would:
•

Require that the executive compensation used in calculating the executive
compensation actually paid be total compensation as disclosed in the
Summary Compensation Table, 23 modified to exclude changes in actuarial
present value of benefits under defined benefit and actuarial pension plans
that are not attributable to the applicable year of service, and to include the
value of equity awards at vesting rather than when granted, which
adjustments are intended to capture the Section 953(a) required measure of
“executive compensation actually paid”; 24

23

Item 402(c) of Regulation S-K [17 CFR 229.402(c)].

24

The terms “stock,” “option,” “stock appreciation right,” “equity,” “plan” and “incentive plan” used
in this release are generally as defined in Item 402(a)(6) of Regulation S-K [17 CFR

9

Require registrants to measure financial performance using TSR, as

•

defined in Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K, and TSR of a registrant peer
group;
•

Require registrants to provide the executive compensation actually paid,
total compensation as disclosed in the Summary Compensation Table,
TSR, and peer group TSR in a prescribed table;

•

Require the executive compensation disclosure to be presented separately
for the principal executive officer, and as an average for the remaining
NEOs identified in the Summary Compensation Table;

•

Require the disclosure of the relationship between (1) executive
compensation actually paid and registrant TSR (for the same executives
identified in the registrant’s Summary Compensation Table), and (2)
registrant TSR and peer group TSR, in each case over the registrant’s five
most recently completed fiscal years;

•

For smaller reporting companies, require the disclosure of the relationship
between executive compensation actually paid and TSR over the
registrant’s three most recently completed fiscal years, without requiring
these companies to provide disclosure of peer group TSR;

•

Require that the disclosure be provided in tagged data format using
eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL); and

•

Provide a phase-in of the requirement.

229.402(a)(6)]. Similarly, while we do not define the term “defined benefit and actuarial pension
plans,” the term has the same meaning as in Item 402 of Regulation S-K.

10

We discuss each of these aspects of our proposal in detail below.
Foreign private issuers, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 3b-4 [17 CFR 240.3b-4],
would not be subject to the proposed amendment. Because securities registered by a
foreign private issuer are not subject to the proxy statement requirements of Exchange
Act Section 14, 25 foreign private issuers would not be required to provide Item 402(v)
disclosure. As proposed, registered investment companies would not be required to
provide Item 402(v) disclosure. We believe that the management structure of, and the
regulatory regime governing, registered investment companies differentiate them from
issuers that are operating companies. Registered investment companies, unlike other
issuers, are generally externally managed and often have few, if any, employees that are
compensated by the registered investment company. Rather, such employees are
generally compensated by the registered investment company’s investment adviser.
Furthermore, registered investment companies do not have named executive officers
within the meaning of Item 402, and, therefore, are not required to conduct the
shareholder advisory votes required by Exchange Act Section 14A. 26 Business
development companies are a category of closed-end investment company that are not
registered under the Investment Company Act [15 U.S.C. 80a-2(a)(48) and 80a-53-64].
25

Exchange Act Rule 3a12-3(b) [17 CFR 240.3a12-3(b)] specifically exempts securities registered
by a foreign private issuer from Exchange Act Sections 14(a) and 14(c).

26

As noted earlier, we believe that the pay-versus-performance disclosure mandated by Section
953(a), together with the disclosure of the ratio of the median annual total compensation of
employees to the annual total compensation of the chief executive officer mandated by Section
953(b), are intended to provide shareholders with information that will help them assess a
registrant’s executive compensation when they are exercising their rights to cast advisory votes on
executive compensation under Exchange Act Section 14A. Further, as noted earlier, the Senate
Report indicated that “a significant concern of shareholders is the relationship between executive
pay and a company’s financial performance,” and that the pay-versus-performance disclosure
would “add to corporate responsibility as firms will have to more clearly disclose and explain
executive pay.” See Senate Report, supra note 7.

11

As proposed, business development companies would be treated in the same manner as
issuers other than registered investment companies and, therefore, would be subject to the
disclosure requirement of Item 402(v).
B.

New Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K
1.

Application and Operation of Proposed Item 402(v)

Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act requires disclosure of the relationship of
executive compensation actually paid and the financial performance of the registrant.
Section 14(i) explicitly refers to Item 402 of Regulation S-K as the reference point for the
executive compensation to be addressed by the new disclosure relating compensation to
performance. Because the disclosure mandated by Section 14(i) relates specifically to
executive compensation, we are proposing to require this new disclosure in a new Item
402(v) of Regulation S-K.
We are also proposing that the disclosure called for under new Item 402(v) of
Regulation S-K be included in any proxy or information statement for which disclosure
under Item 402 of Regulation S-K is required. Currently, Item 8 of Schedule 14A 27 and
Item 1 of Schedule 14C 28 require registrants to furnish Item 402 information if action is
to be taken with regard to: the election of directors; any bonus, profit sharing or other
contract or arrangement in which any director, nominee or executive officer of the
registrant will participate; any pension or retirement plan in which they will participate;
27

17 CFR 240.14a-101.

28

Schedule 14C [17 CFR 240.14c-101] works in conjunction with Schedule 14A to generally
require the disclosure of information called for by Schedule 14A to the extent that the item would
be applicable to any matter to be acted on at a meeting if proxies were to be solicited. Schedule
14C implements Exchange Act Section 14(c) [15 U.S.C. 78n(c)] which created disclosure
obligations for registrants that choose not to, or otherwise do not, solicit proxies, consents, or other
authorizations from some or all of their security holders entitled to vote.

12

or the granting or extension to them of options, warrants or rights to purchase securities
on a pro rata basis. 29 By including the requirement in Item 402 and requiring this
disclosure in proxy statements on Schedule 14A and in information statements on
Schedule 14C, 30 shareholders would have available the pay-versus-performance
disclosure, along with all other executive compensation disclosures called for by Item
402, in circumstances in which shareholder action is to be taken with regard to an
election of directors or executive compensation. Because the proposed pay-versusperformance disclosure would be provided pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K, it
would be subject to the say-on-pay advisory vote under Exchange Act Rule 14a-21(a). 31
We note that the language of Section 14(i) requires that the pay-versusperformance disclosure be provided “in any proxy or consent solicitation material for an
annual meeting of the shareholders.” Shareholder annual meetings are typically the
venue in which directors are elected. 32 This statutory language, if construed narrowly,
29

The executive compensation disclosure called for under Item 402 of Regulation S-K is also
required in certain registration statements under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act, as well
as in annual reports on Form 10-K. Most registrants satisfy the Form 10-K disclosure requirement
by incorporating by reference the information contained in their annual proxy or information
statement.

30

Even though Section 14(i) does not expressly include information statements provided for under
Section 14(c), we believe that the purpose of information statements under Section 14(c), which
established disclosure obligations for registrants that do not solicit proxies, does not support
excluding the disclosure from information statements. Although Section 14(c) and Schedule 14C
concern the provision of certain information when no solicitation is involved, Section 14(c)
provides an obligation relating to information statements to transmit to holders “such security
information substantially equivalent to the information which would be required to be transmitted
if a solicitation were made….” 15 U.S.C. 78n(c).

31

17 CFR 240.14a-21.

32

The Commission has previously recognized that directors ordinarily are elected at annual
meetings. See, e.g., Exchange Act Rule 14a-6(a) [17 CFR 240.14a-6(a)] (acknowledging that
registrants soliciting proxies in the context of an election of directors at an annual meeting may be
eligible to rely on the exclusion from the requirement to file a proxy statement in preliminary
form). See also, Exchange Act Rule 14a-3(b) [17 CFR 240.14a-3(b)] (requiring proxy statements
used in connection with the election of directors at an annual meeting to be preceded or

13

would require the pay-versus-performance disclosure in different instances than our rules
currently require for other executive compensation disclosure. 33 In particular, under our
current rules if a registrant solicits proxies 34 with respect to the election of directors or
executive compensation matters, its proxy statement must include specified information
required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K, whether the election takes place at an annual or
special meeting. 35 We believe Item 402 disclosure, including the disclosure that would

accompanied by an annual report containing audited financial statements). The requirement for
registrants to hold an annual meeting at which directors are to be elected, however, is imposed by
a source of legal authority other than the federal securities laws. In Delaware, for example, where
more than 50% of the publicly traded issuers are incorporated, according to the State of
Delaware’s official website, Delaware General Corporation Law (DGCL), Section 211(b) is
viewed as requiring an annual meeting for the election of directors. See R. FRANKLIN BALOTTI &
JESSE A. FINKELSTEIN, DELAWARE LAW OF CORPORATIONS & BUSINESS ORGANIZATIONS, §7.1
(3d ed.), EDWARD P. WELCH, ANDREW J. TUREZYN, & ROBERT S. SAUNDERS, FOLK ON THE
DELAWARE GENERAL CORPORATE LAW § 211.2 (2013), and the text of DGCL Section 211(b),
which reads in relevant part, “unless directors are elected by written consent in lieu of an annual
meeting as permitted by this subsection, an annual meeting of stockholders shall be held for the
election of directors on a date and at a time designated by or in the manner provided in the
bylaws.” See also CHARLES R.T. O’KELLEY & ROBERT B. THOMPSON, CORPORATIONS AND
OTHER BUSINESS ASSOCIATIONS 167 (7th ed.) (explaining that the “paramount shareholder
function is the election of directors” and that “[m]ost corporation codes protect this right by
specifying immutably that directors shall be elected at an annually held meeting of
shareholders.”), California Corporations Code, Section 600(b), and 1969 Model Business
Corporation Act (as amended through 1981), Section 7.01(a) (each requiring an annual meeting of
shareholders for the election of directors).
33

The language of Section 14(i) calls for the disclosure to be provided in connection with annual
meetings, the meeting at which registrants generally provide for the election of directors.
Depending on the circumstances, this construction could be narrower or broader than the scope of
Item 8 of Schedule 14A, which requires executive compensation disclosure in circumstances
where action is to be taken with regard to an election of directors or executive compensation. For
example, a registrant could solicit proxies to approve a management contract or arrangement or
other compensation plan at a special meeting instead of an annual meeting and, in this instance,
Item 8 would require Item 402 executive compensation disclosure. By contrast, although an
annual meeting ordinarily involves an election of directors, in the unlikely event that an annual
meeting did not include an election of directors or other executive compensation actions, the
proposed amendment would not require any Item 402 executive compensation disclosure.

34

Rule 14a-1(f) [17 CFR 240.14a-1(f)] defines the term “proxy” to include every proxy, consent or
authorization within the meaning of Section 14(a) of the Exchange Act. A solicitation of consents
therefore constitutes a solicitation of proxies subject to Section 14(a) and Regulation 14A.

35

See Item 8 of Schedule 14A.

14

be required under proposed Item 402(v), is equally useful to shareholders without regard
to the venue of the corporate action.
Consistent with our approach to other Item 402 disclosures, we are proposing to
require pay-versus-performance disclosure in these instances because we believe that the
proposed disclosure would be most useful to shareholders when they are deciding
whether to approve the compensation of the NEOs through the say-on-pay advisory vote,
as well as when making voting decisions on a compensation plan in which NEOs
participate, and making decisions pertaining to the election of directors. The Senate
Report accompanying the statute references shareholder interest in the relationship
between executive pay and performance as well as the general benefits of transparency of
executive pay practices. 36 Several commenters also noted that the mandate may help
inform shareholders. 37 For example, one commenter stated a belief that the requirements
of Section 953(a), if implemented appropriately, “will help investors better understand
the executive pay decisions of the company, and make more informed ‘Say-on-Pay’
votes.” 38
By proposing to require the disclosure as a new Item 402 requirement, however,
the pay-versus-performance disclosure, unless otherwise limited, also would be required
in a registrant’s Form 10-K and in Securities Act registration statements that require Item
36

The Senate Report includes the following with respect to Section 953(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act:
“It has become apparent that a significant concern of shareholders is the relationship between
executive pay and the company’s financial performance…The Committee believes that these
disclosures will add to corporate responsibility as firms will have to more clearly disclose and
explain executive pay.” See Senate Report supra note 7.

37

See letters from American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (Aug. 8,
2014) (“AFL-CIO”), PublicCitizen, ClearBridge and Pay Governance.

38

See letter from Pay Governance.

15

402 disclosure. The language of Section 14(i) calling for the disclosure to be provided in
solicitation material for an annual meeting of the shareholders suggests that the disclosure
was intended to be provided in conjunction with a shareholder vote, and we believe that
the disclosure would be most useful in this context. Therefore, we are proposing that
Item 402(v) specify that the disclosure would only be required in a registrant’s proxy or
information statement. In addition, as proposed, the information will not be deemed to be
incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act,
except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by reference. 39

2.

Format and Location of Proposed Disclosure

Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act requires us to adopt rules requiring disclosure
of “information” that shows the relationship between executive compensation actually
paid and registrant financial performance, but it does not specify the format or location of
that disclosure.
We are not proposing a specific location within the proxy statement or
information statement for this new disclosure. We note that the proposed disclosure item
is related to the CD&A because it would show the historical relationship between
executive pay and registrant financial performance, and may provide a useful point of
comparison for the analysis provided in the CD&A. However, including this disclosure
as part of CD&A might suggest that the registrant considered the pay-versus-performance
relationship, as disclosed, in its compensation decisions, which may not be the case.
39

See Instruction 6 to proposed Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K. As proposed, the information would
therefore not be subject to forward incorporation by reference under Item 12(b) of Form S-3 [17
CFR 239.13].

16

Consequently, we believe it is appropriate to provide flexibility for registrants in
determining where in the proxy or information statement to provide the disclosure
required by proposed Item 402(v), although we generally expect registrants would
disclose it with the Item 402 executive compensation disclosure.
As proposed, Item 402(v) would require registrants to provide a table containing
the values of the prescribed measures of executive compensation actually paid, TSR for
the registrant and TSR for the selected peer group (see table below). For each amount
disclosed as executive compensation actually paid in columns (c) and (e) of the
prescribed table, proposed Item 402(v) would require footnote disclosure for both
principal executive officer compensation and average NEO compensation of each amount
deducted from, and added to the total compensation amount as provided in the Summary
Compensation Table. As proposed, Item 402(v) also would require registrants to include
in the table the total PEO compensation reported in the Summary Compensation Table
(column (b), and, for NEOs, the average total compensation reported in the Summary
Compensation Table (column (d)). Requiring disclosure of the Summary Compensation
Table measure of total compensation together with our proposed measure of executive
compensation actually paid would provide shareholders with disclosure of two measures
in one single table and, we believe, would facilitate comparisons of the two measures of a
registrant’s executive compensation to the registrant’s performance. To the extent that
some shareholders may be interested in considering the relationship of performance with
a measure of pay that excludes changes in the value of equity awards, they would be able
to refer to the Summary Compensation Table measure of total compensation required
alongside executive compensation actually paid in the tabular disclosure. Among other

17

things, the Summary Compensation Table measure of total compensation reflects the
grant date values of equity awards.
We are proposing that the disclosure provided in each column of the proposed
table, including any footnote disclosure, be provided in interactive data format using
XBRL. 40 The proposal would require registrants to tag separately the values disclosed in
the required table, and to separately block-text tag the disclosure of the relationship
among the measures, the footnote disclosure of deductions and additions used to
determine executive compensation actually paid, and the footnote disclosure regarding
vesting date valuation assumptions. The interactive data would have to be provided as an
exhibit to the definitive proxy or information statement filed with the Commission, in
addition to appearing with and in the same format as the rest of the disclosure provided
pursuant to proposed Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K (e.g., in ASCII or HTML).
Registrants would be required to prepare their interactive data using the list of tags the
Commission specifies and submit them with any supporting files the EDGAR Filer
Manual prescribes. 41 We believe requiring the data to be tagged would lower the cost to
investors of collecting this information, would permit data to be analyzed more quickly
by investors and other end-users than if the data was provided in a non-machine readable
format, and would facilitate comparisons among public companies. In addition, requiring
the data to be tagged would facilitate analysis of how information related to a single
issuer changes over time.

40

Data becomes interactive when it is labeled or “tagged” using a computer markup language such
as XBRL that software can process for analysis.

41

The EDGAR Filer Manual is available at: http://www.sec.gov/info/edgar/edmanuals.htm.

18

PAY VERSUS PERFORMANCE
Summary

Average

Compensation
Table Total
Year
(a)

For PEO
(b)

Summary
Compensation

Compensation

Actually Paid to

Table Total

PEO

for non-PEO

(c)

Named

Average

Total

Peer Group

Compensation

Shareholder

Total

Actually Paid to

Return

Shareholder

non-PEO Named

(f)

Return

Executive Officers

(g)

(e)

Executive
Officers
(d)

Because the statute requires disclosure of the relationship between executive
compensation and registrant performance, we do not believe that simply disclosing the
amount of executive compensation actually paid and the financial performance measure
would satisfy this statutory requirement. Thus, using the values presented in the table,
proposed Item 402(v) would require the registrant to describe (1) the relationship
between the executive compensation actually paid and registrant TSR, and (2) the
relationship between registrant TSR and peer group TSR. We believe disclosure about
the relationship between registrant TSR and peer group TSR would provide information
that investors can use to compare a registrant’s performance with that of its peers, and
may provide a useful point of comparison to assess the relationship between the
registrant’s executive compensation actually paid and its financial performance compared
to the performance of its peers during the same time period.
The disclosure about the relationship would follow the table and could be
described as a narrative, graphically, or a combination of the two, and, as proposed,

19

would be required to be provided in interactive data format using XBRL. Disclosure of
the relationship could include, for example, a graph providing executive compensation
actually paid and change in TSR on parallel axes and plotting compensation and TSR
over the required time period. Alternatively, disclosure of the relationship could include
showing the percentage change over each year of the required time period in both
executive compensation actually paid and TSR together with a brief discussion of that
relationship. Under our proposed amendments, while the presentation format used by
different registrants to demonstrate the relationship between executive compensation
actually paid and TSR may vary, the table required by Item 402(v) together with existing
disclosures would provide shareholders with clear information from which to determine
the relationship between executive compensation actually paid and registrant
performance so that shareholders could, if desired, compare the disclosure across
registrants.
Exchange Act Section 14(i) provides that the disclosure about the relationship
may include a graphic representation of the information. Commenters provided varying
views on whether to require a graphic presentation. Some commenters indicated that a
graphic representation would help provide meaningful disclosure, 42 while other
commenters supported a principles-based approach that would not include a specific
requirement for a graphic representation. 43 Consistent with the language of Exchange
Act Section 14(i), we are proposing to permit, rather than require, a registrant to comply
with the new requirement to disclose the relationship between executive compensation
42

See letters from Farient, Meridian and Shareholder Value Advisors, Inc. (Apr. 27, 2012) (“SVA
II”).

43

See letters from ABA, CEC I, and Davis Polk.

20

actually paid and registrant performance by including a graphic presentation of the payversus-performance disclosure, in addition to the required table presenting the values of
prescribed measures of executive compensation and TSR.
Request for Comment
1. Exchange Act Section 14(i) specifies that the pay-versus-performance disclosure
must be provided in any proxy or consent solicitation materials that relate to
annual shareholder meetings. For the reasons discussed above, we are proposing
to require the disclosure in a registrant’s proxy or information statement where
Item 402 disclosure is required. Should we instead, or in addition, require the
disclosure in any proxy or information statements relating to an annual
shareholder meeting (or special meeting or written consent in lieu of a meeting)?
Why or why not?
2. To retain consistency in the executive compensation disclosure provided in proxy
statements and information statements, we propose that the Item 402(v) disclosure
be included in information statements on Schedule 14C as well as proxy
statements on Schedule 14A for which Item 402 disclosure is required. Is there
any reason that the proposed disclosure mandated by Section 14(i) should be
limited to registrants that are soliciting proxies or consents on Schedule 14A?
3. Should we also require the proposed disclosure in all other forms and schedules in
which executive compensation disclosure is required? Would it be useful to
shareholders to include the proposed disclosure in registration statements or
annual reports as well? Why or why not?

21

4. Should the disclosure required by Exchange Act Section 14(i) be a separate
requirement under Item 402 of Regulation S-K, as proposed? Alternatively,
should we require the disclosure as part of the CD&A? If so, please explain why.
5. Should we require registrants to provide, as proposed, a table that includes the
Summary Compensation Table total compensation, in addition to the values of the
prescribed measures of executive compensation actually paid and registrant
financial performance used for the pay-versus-performance disclosure? Why or
why not?
6. Should we further prescribe the format of the proposed disclosure to promote
comparability across registrants? For example, should we require that registrants
present the percentage change in executive compensation actually paid and
registrant/peer group financial performance over each year of the required time
period graphically or in writing? Are there other format requirements we should
consider? Should we provide further guidance on how to present the information
in a way that promotes comparability? Are there ways our proposed table can be
improved?
7. If we were to require a graphic presentation of the disclosure, should we specify
requirements for this presentation so that each registrant provides comparable
disclosure? Or should we allow registrants to determine the appropriate graphic
presentation, if any? How should such a graph describe the relationship between
executive compensation actually paid and registrant performance?
8. Should we provide sample charts or other examples of graphic presentations that
would comply with proposed Item 402(v)? If so, please provide examples.

22

9. Would requiring disclosure of the values of the prescribed measures of executive
compensation actually paid and registrant financial performance, without
additional information about the “relationship” of those data points, satisfy
Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act?
10. Would the stock performance graph required by Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K
modified to add a line representing executive compensation actually paid provide
meaningful disclosure about the relationship between executive pay and registrant
performance? Why or why not? If so, should we require the stock performance
graph, as so modified to be included in the proxy or information statement as well
as, or instead of, in the annual report to security holders required by Exchange Act
Rules 14a-3 and 14c-3 44? Would such disclosure satisfy Exchange Act Section
14(i)?
11. Under our current rules, unless specifically incorporated by reference, the
disclosure required by Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K is not deemed to be
“soliciting material” or to be “filed” with the Commission or subject to the
liabilities of Exchange Act Section 18. 45 That same treatment is not afforded to
the CD&A disclosure. Under the proposal, the pay-versus-performance
disclosure, which would require disclosure of TSR as defined in Item 201(e) for
the registrant and for a peer group used by the registrant for purposes of the
CD&A or Item 201(e), would be filed in certain proxy or information statements.
Should the disclosure about TSR be deemed to be filed, as proposed? Why or
44

17 CFR 240.14a-3 and 17 CFR 240.14c-3.

45

15 U.S.C. 78r; see Instruction 8 to Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K.

23

why not? Alternatively, should the TSR disclosure be deemed to be “furnished”?
If the disclosure was treated as “furnished”, should such treatment only apply to
peer group TSR? Why or why not?
12. Would the proposed tabular disclosure of the values of the executive
compensation and registrant financial performance enhance comparability across
registrants? Are there other formats that would be more useful in that regard?
13. Should we require that the data be tagged in XBRL format, as proposed? Should
we require a different format, such as, for example, eXtensible Markup Language
(XML)? 46 Should the proposed tabular disclosure be changed in any way to
facilitate accurate and consistent tagging? If so, how? Should we require that, as
proposed, disclosure about the relationship between executive compensation and
registrant performance be tagged? Why or why not? Would tagging the
relationship of executive compensation to financial performance enhance
comparability among different registrants? Alternatively, instead of requiring that
the disclosure about the relationship be tagged, should tagging this disclosure be
optional? If a registrant chooses to add more information to the prescribed table,
should we require this additional information to be tagged as well, even if
registrant-specific extensions are necessary?

46

Another possible alternative for providing the information in interactive data format would be
Inline XBRL, which would allow registrants to file the required information and data tags in one
document rather than requiring a separate exhibit for the interactive data. Commission rules and
the EDGAR system do not currently allow for the use of Inline XBRL. To the extent that a
determination is made in the future to accept Inline XBRL submissions, we expect to revisit the
format in which this disclosure requirement is provided.

24

14. Should we require that the data be tagged in preliminary proxy statements and
information statements, as well as in definitive proxy statements and information
statements? Why or why not?
15. Should we exempt smaller reporting companies from the XBRL requirement,
rather than require them to provide such data? Why or why not? Would the costs
be different for smaller reporting companies to comply with the proposed
requirement to provide the data in XBRL format as compared to other companies?
What would be the impact of not requiring tagging for smaller reporting
companies? Should we, as proposed, provide a phase-in for smaller reporting
companies to tag the disclosure? Why or why not? Should the period be longer
or shorter than three years?
16. Instruction 1 to Item 402(c)(2)(iii) and (iv) of Regulation S-K permits a registrant
to omit disclosure in the Summary Compensation Table of the salary or bonus of
an NEO if it is not calculable as of the latest practicable date. 47 Item 5.02(f) of
Form 8-K 48 sets forth the requirements for the filing of information that was
omitted from Item 402 disclosure in accordance with Instruction 1 to Item
402(c)(2)(iii) and (iv), including the requirement to include a new total
compensation figure for the NEO. Should we consider permitting registrants to
omit pay-versus-performance disclosure until those elements of the NEO’s total
compensation are determined and to provide the pay-versus-performance
disclosure in the same filing under Item 5.02(f) of Form 8-K in which the salary
47

For smaller reporting companies, Instruction 1 to Item 402(n)(2)(iii) and (iv) is the corresponding
instruction.

48

17 CFR 249.308.

25

or bonus is disclosed? Is such relief necessary given that, as proposed, registrants
will not be required to incorporate the disclosure into the Form 10-K? If we were
to provide the relief, should we require any additional or supplemental disclosure
in connection with an amendment to Item 5.02(f)? If so, what would that
disclosure entail?
C.

Executives Covered

Exchange Act Section 14(i) does not specify which executives must be included
in the disclosure of “executive compensation actually paid.” For registrants other than
smaller reporting companies, we are proposing that the executives covered by the
proposed Item 402(v) disclosure be the “named executive officers” as defined in Item
402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K. 49 For smaller reporting companies, we are proposing that
the executives covered by the proposed Item 402(v) disclosure be the same as the “named
executive officers” required to be disclosed under Item 402(m). 50 These are the
49

Item 402(a)(3) [17 CFR 229.402(a)(3)] defines the NEOs for whom Item 402 executive
compensation is required as 1) all individuals serving as the registrant’s principal executive officer
or acting in a similar capacity during the last completed fiscal year (“PEO”), regardless of
compensation level, 2) all individuals serving as the registrant’s principal financial officer or
acting in a similar capacity during the last completed fiscal year (“PFO”), regardless of
compensation level, 3) the registrant’s three most highly compensated executive officers other
than the PEO and PFO who were serving as executive officers at the end of the last completed
fiscal year, and 4) up to two additional individuals for whom Item 402 disclosure would have been
provided but for the fact that the individual was not serving as an executive officer of the
registrant at the end of the last completed fiscal year. Because the pay-versus-performance
disclosure is being proposed as new paragraph (v) to Item 402, the disclosure also would be
required for the NEOs.

50

For smaller reporting companies, Item 402(m)(2) [17 CFR 229.402(m)(2)] defines the NEOs for
whom Item 402 executive compensation is required as 1) all individuals serving as the smaller
reporting company’s principal executive officer or acting in a similar capacity during the last
completed fiscal year (PEO), regardless of compensation level, 2) the smaller reporting company’s
two most highly compensated executive officers other than the PEO who were serving as
executive officers at the end of the last completed fiscal year, and 3) up to two additional
individuals for whom disclosure would have been provided but for the fact that the individual was
not serving as an executive officer of the smaller reporting company at the end of the last
completed fiscal year.

26

executive officers for whom, under our current rules, compensation disclosure is required
in the Summary Compensation Table and the other executive compensation disclosure
requirements. In addition, we are proposing that, for each year, the compensation
information be presented separately for the principal executive officer 51 and as an
average for the remaining NEOs identified in the Summary Compensation Table.
We note that Section 14(i) specifically refers to compensation required to be
disclosed under Item 402 of Regulation S-K. Because Item 402 of Regulation S-K
requires disclosure of NEO compensation, we believe that Congress intended for the
rules to provide disclosure about that group. We also believe that covering only the
NEOs should help to mitigate some of the costs associated with the proposed disclosure
because registrants are already required to make the determination of who is an NEO and
to track information about their compensation. Commenters that addressed this issue
were generally supportive of requiring that the pay-versus-performance disclosure cover
the NEOs. 52
We are proposing to require that the disclosure be provided separately for the
PEO and as an average for the remaining NEOs identified in the Summary Compensation
Table. Several commenters noted that shareholders have a particular interest in the
compensation of the PEO. 53 We are further proposing that if more than one person

51

The term “principal executive officer” used in this release has the same meaning as in Items
402(a)(3) and 402(m)(2) of Regulation S-K and would include an individual acting in a similar
capacity.

52

See letters from ABA, Baker, Donelson, Bearman, Caldwell & Berkowitz (“Baker Donelson”),
ClearBridge, Compensia, Brian Foley & Company (“Foley”) and MDU.

53

See letters from Farient, Johnson & Johnson (“J&J”), Meridian and Pay Governance. One such
commenter recommended that we limit the disclosure solely to the PEO. See letter from Meridian.
As discussed above, however, because Section 14(i) specifically refers to compensation required

27

served as the PEO of the registrant, then the disclosure for the persons who served as
PEO of the registrant shall be aggregated for the years in which more than one person
served as the PEO because this reflects the total amount that was paid by the registrant
for the services of a PEO.
Finally, we are proposing to require disclosure of the average compensation
actually paid for the remaining NEOs. We believe disclosure of the relationship of
performance to average NEO compensation would be more meaningful to shareholders
than individual or aggregate NEO compensation. There can be significant variability in
the identity of the registrant’s other NEOs over a five-year period. Moreover, the number
of NEOs for whom Item 402 disclosure is required may fluctuate from year-to-year,
which would make an aggregate total not comparable year over year. 54 We believe
requiring disclosure of the average compensation would help make the information about
these NEOs more comparable from year to year in spite of the variability in the
composition and number of NEOs who are not the PEO over the years for which
disclosure is required.
Request for Comment
17. Should we require that the proposed disclosure cover the NEOs as defined in Item
402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K, or Item 402(m) for smaller reporting companies, as
proposed? Alternatively, should we require disclosure for a different group of
to be disclosed under Item 402, and Item 402 applies to a broader group of NEOs than the PEO,
we believe the disclosure should be required about that group.
54

For example, in any year, up to two additional individuals who were not serving as executive
officers at the end of the year must be included if they otherwise would have been among the most
highly compensated. Additionally, for registrants other than smaller reporting companies, if more
than one person serves as principal financial officer during the year, each of them must be
included in the Summary Compensation Table.

28

executives than the NEOs and, if so, how should such a group be defined? For
example, would the appropriate group be all executive officers as defined in Rule
3b-7 under the Exchange Act? 55 What additional costs would registrants incur if
they were required to provide information for executives not currently defined as
NEOs?
18. Should we require registrants to provide the pay-versus-performance disclosure
for NEOs other than the PEO as an average, as proposed, or should we specify
that the disclosure must be made either in the aggregate (i.e., the sum of all other
NEOs’ compensation) or on an individual basis for each NEO? How would these
approaches affect, either positively or negatively, the comparability across
registrants? Alternatively, should registrants provide tabular disclosure of the
executive compensation actually paid on an individual basis for each NEO but
only be required to demonstrate the relationship to financial performance for the
PEO’s individual compensation and the average compensation of the other
NEOs? Are there ways other than using an average for the other NEOs to
appropriately account for the possibility that the size and identity of the group of
other NEOs could change each year? What impact would changes to the group of
other NEOs have on the comparability and usefulness of pay-versus-performance
disclosure?
19. Should we require separate disclosure for the PEO, as proposed? Should we
require, in instances where a registrant had more than one PEO in a given year,
that the amounts for each PEO be added together, as proposed? Under our
55

17 CFR 240.3b-7.

29

executive compensation disclosure rules, if an individual served in the capacity of
PEO during any part of a fiscal year for which executive compensation disclosure
is required, information about the individual’s compensation for the full fiscal
year is required to be disclosed. Should the compensation amount for the payversus-performance disclosure include only compensation received as the PEO?
Should we require separate disclosure for each individual who served as a PEO
during the required time period of disclosure? Are there alternative approaches
we should consider? For example, where a registrant had more than one PEO in a
given year, should we permit registrants the flexibility to choose instead to
annualize the compensation of the PEO serving at the end of the fiscal year?
20. Should we require disclosure for only the PEO? Would information about the
non-PEO NEOs be meaningful or useful for investors? Would information about
the PEO’s compensation provide adequate information to investors about the payversus-performance alignment of other NEOs? Would limiting the scope of
disclosure to the PEO result in meaningful cost savings to registrants, for example
by limiting the extent to which they must perform recalculations of compensation
actually paid (see Section II.D below) or average calculations? Would limiting
the disclosure to the PEO affect the usefulness of the information for investors?
D.

Determination of “Executive Compensation Actually Paid”

Exchange Act Section 14(i) does not define the phrase “executive compensation
actually paid,” but it does require a “clear description of any compensation required to be
disclosed by the registrant” under Item 402 of Regulation S-K. 56 We are proposing that
56

15 U.S.C. 78n(i).

30

“executive compensation actually paid” under proposed Item 402(v) of Regulation S-K
would be total compensation as reported in the Summary Compensation Table, 57
modified to adjust the amounts included for pension benefits and equity awards. We
believe using as a starting point the total compensation that registrants already are
required to report in the Summary Compensation Table and making adjustments to those
figures reduces burdens to registrants and also may enhance comparability of the
proposed disclosure across registrants. 58
Although Exchange Act Section 14(i) refers to compensation required to be
disclosed under Item 402 of Regulation S-K, it also uses the phrase “actually paid,”
which differs from disclosure required under Item 402 of “compensation awarded to,
earned by or paid to” the NEOs. 59 We believe that Congress intended executive
compensation “actually paid” to be an amount distinct from the total compensation as
reported under Item 402 because it used a term not otherwise referenced in Item 402. As
such, we believe that adjustments to some of the elements in the Summary Compensation
Table are appropriate to reflect executive compensation that is “actually paid” within the
meaning of Section 14(i). Total compensation as reported in the Summary Compensation
Table is the appropriate starting point and, as proposed, would be included in the table as
discussed above, but registrants would need to adjust some elements of compensation

57

Item 402(c) of Regulation S-K. Smaller reporting companies provide the scaled Summary
Compensation Table disclosure specified in Item 402(n) of Regulation S-K.

58

We note that the pay ratio disclosure required by Section 953(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act is required
to be based on total compensation as provided in the Summary Compensation Table. In light of
the different language in Section 953(a), which references compensation that is “actually paid,”
we believe it is appropriate to adjust the treatment of certain components of total compensation for
the disclosure required by Section 953(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act.

59

See 17 CFR 229.402(a)(2).

31

determined according to the Summary Compensation Table reporting requirements to
reflect amounts “actually paid” to the NEOs.
Some commenters were of the view that we should not prescribe the specific
compensation elements to be covered 60 or the method of determination of when equity
awards are “actually paid.” 61 Instead, these commenters suggested that registrants be
permitted flexibility to determine which compensation elements should be included in
pay-versus-performance disclosure. 62 While such an approach could benefit registrants
by permitting them to determine the disclosure they believe best reflects the relationship
between executive pay and the registrant’s performance, we believe that such flexibility
would limit comparability across registrants, making the disclosure less useful to
shareholders. 63
Other commenters recommended that we limit the compensation required to be
disclosed for purposes of the pay-versus-performance disclosure to the amounts that are
based on the financial performance of the company. 64 Some commenters supported
particular definitions of “actually paid” covering specific compensation elements, 65 such
as a measure including only the grant date fair value for all equity awards that are subject

60

See letters from ABA, CEC I, ClearBridge and Davis Polk.

61

See letters from ABA, CEC I, Davis Polk, Protective Life and Society of Corporate Secretaries
and Governance Professionals (“SCSGP”).

62

See letters from ABA, CEC I and Davis Polk. One commenter stated that “[a]n issuer should be
able to determine which compensation elements are based on performance and explain the
rationale for why it included those elements in this analysis, and excluded others.” See letter from
Davis Polk.

63

See, e.g., letters from AFL-CIO and Council of Institutional Investors (“CII”).

64

See letters from Compensia and Center for Executive Compensation (Oct. 17, 2014) (“CEC II”).

65

See letters from ClearBridge and Pay Governance. ClearBridge and Pay Governance
recommended using particular definitions of realizable pay.

32

to performance-based vesting conditions and cash amounts awarded based on the
financial performance of the registrant. 66 Some commenters suggested that change in
pension value should be excluded from the Summary Compensation Table calculation in
computing the new measure. 67 Other commenters, by contrast, recommended that the
Commission define “executive compensation actually paid” as broadly as possible,
regardless of whether a particular component of compensation is awarded based on
performance. 68
We are aware that a number of registrants have used the concepts of “realizable
pay” and “realized pay” in their proxy statements as a means of comparing pay and
performance. 69 While there continues to be work among various compensation
constituencies to agree upon a consistent methodology for calculating “realizable pay” or
“realized pay,” we are not aware that there has yet been broad agreement upon any
particular formula. Registrants may choose to supplement the disclosure required by
proposed Item 402(v) by providing pay-versus-performance disclosure based on a
measure of “realized pay,” “realizable pay,” or another appropriate measure if they
believe it provides useful information about the relationship between compensation and
66

See letter from Compensia.

67

See letters from Baker Donelson, Frederic W. Cook & Co., Inc. (“Cook”), and Meridian.

68

See letter from CII. See also letter AFL-CIO (recommending that the Commission require
disclosure of all forms of compensation as disclosed in the Summary Compensation Table).

69

The concepts of “realized pay” and “realizable pay” are designed to provide different measures of
alignment between a named executive officer’s pay and performance, though there are no standard
definitions of either term. Registrants can tailor the concepts resulting in amounts which generally
differ from the amounts disclosed in the Summary Compensation Table because they exclude
various types of compensation such as the value of unvested or unexercised equity awards. We
note that some proxy advisory services have also begun to take into account some version of
“realizable pay” or “realized pay” when making say-on-pay voting recommendations. See, e.g.,
Institutional Shareholder Services, Inc., U.S. Corporate Governance Policy 2014 updates (Nov.
21, 2013).

33

registrant performance, provided that the supplemental disclosure is not misleading and
not presented more prominently than the required disclosure.
Because the statute does not define “executive compensation actually paid,” we
are using our discretion to define that term for the purpose of proposed Item 402(v)
disclosure. 70 As indicated above, while we believe the Summary Compensation Table is
the appropriate starting point, we believe some adjustments are appropriate to give effect
to the statutory language and reflect executive compensation that is “actually paid.”
Specifically, as discussed below, we propose to modify the amounts included for pension
benefits and equity awards. 71 Moreover, we believe that the phrase “executive
compensation actually paid” should include all compensation actually paid, regardless of
whether the compensation is awarded based on the registrant’s financial performance. In
considering the relationship between executive compensation actually paid and the
registrant’s financial performance, we believe shareholders should be able to take into
account components of compensation regardless of whether or not they are awarded
based on the registrant’s performance.
1. Changes in Actuarial Pension Value
We propose to deduct the change in the actuarial present value of all defined
benefit and pension plans from the Summary Compensation Table total for purposes of
proposed Item 402(v). 72 This Summary Compensation Table measure includes the
70

Proposed Item 402(v)(2).

71

These terms have the same definitions as in Item 402 of Regulation S-K.

72

The change in actuarial present value, generally, reflects the difference between the actuarial
present value of accumulated benefits at the end of the fiscal year and at the end of the prior fiscal
year. This amount would be deducted only if the value is positive, and therefore included in the
sum reported in column (h) of the Summary Compensation Table. Where such amount is

34

change in actuarial present value of pension benefits previously accrued based on
changes in interest rates, executive age, and other actuarial inputs and assumptions,
which may introduce significant volatility into this measure, as well as the actuarial
present value of accrued pension benefits earned by the executive based on an additional
year of service. 73 Item 402(v) would require, however, that the actuarially determined
service cost for services rendered by the executive during the applicable year be added
back. 74 Thus, the portion of the total change in actuarial pension value that results solely
from changes in interest rates, executive’s age and other actuarial inputs and assumptions
regarding benefits accrued in previous years would be excluded.
We believe that including only the service cost for services rendered by the
executive during the applicable year is a more appropriate measure for purposes of
determining compensation “actually paid” during the applicable year because it is limited
to pension costs for benefits earned during that year. The amount we proposed to include
may be viewed to approximate the value that would be set aside currently by the
registrant to fund the pension benefits payable upon retirement for the service provided
during the applicable year. We recognize that registrants may differ as to whether they
negative, and therefore reported only in a footnote to column (h), it should not be reflected for
purposes of proposed Item 402(v). See Instruction 3 to Item 402(c)(2)(viii). Smaller reporting
companies would not need to deduct this amount because the Summary Compensation Table
requirements for smaller reporting companies do not require disclosure of the change in actuarial
present value.
73

While commenters were divided on which elements of compensation should be included, some
commenters supported calculating compensation by excluding changes in pension value and
above-market earnings on deferred compensation from the compensation in the Summary
Compensation Table. See letters from Meridian, Baker Donelson, and Cook.

74

Service cost is defined in FASB ASC Topic 715 as the actuarial present value of benefits
attributed by the pension plan’s benefit formula to services rendered by the employee during the
period. The measurement of service cost reflects certain assumptions, including future
compensation levels to the extent provided by the pension plan’s benefit formula.

35

use defined benefit or defined contribution retirement plans, and this proposed change to
the amount disclosed in the Summary Compensation Table is intended to provide a more
meaningful comparison across registrants of the amounts “actually paid” under both
types of plan. For defined contribution plans, the Summary Compensation Table requires
disclosure of registrant contributions or other allocations to vested and unvested defined
contribution plans for the applicable fiscal year, 75 which will also be included in
computing compensation actually paid for purposes of the new disclosure.
We do not expect that the proposed adjustments will require the collection of
significant new data by registrants, or reveal significant new information to shareholders
relative to the compensation disclosure that is currently required. The pension’s annual
service cost is not required to be reported separately, but can be calculated based on
information reported in, and in footnotes to, the Pension Benefits Table. We believe that,
for purposes of proposed Item 402(v), using the actuarially determined service cost rather
than the Summary Compensation Table pension measure may increase comparability of
compensation provided through defined benefit and defined contribution plans because of
the variability of the actuarial inputs and assumptions among different registrants.
2. Earnings on Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation
Consistent with the current disclosure requirements of the Summary
Compensation Table, the compensation calculation under proposed Item 402(v) would
include above-market or preferential earnings on deferred compensation that is not taxqualified because these amounts represent compensation accrued during the relevant

75

Item 402(c)(2)(ix)(E).

36

year. 76 Above-market or preferential earnings on deferred compensation represent
amounts accrued during the year based on the registrant’s compensatory decision to pay
an above-market return. Excluding this element from disclosure of compensation
“actually paid” until its eventual payout would make disclosure contingent on an NEO’s
decision to withdraw or take a distribution from his or her account, rather than the
registrant’s compensatory decision to pay the above-market return. Such an approach
would be inconsistent with the Summary Compensation Table disclosure of the
underlying deferred amounts when earned, 77 which we would carry forward to proposed
Item 402(v), and could result in the relationship of this amount to company performance
never being disclosed.
3. Equity Awards
We are proposing that equity awards be considered actually paid on the date of
vesting and valued at fair value on that date, rather than fair value on the date of grant as
required in the Summary Compensation Table. 78 Before vesting, an executive does not
76

These earnings are reported pursuant to Item 402(c)(2)(vii), or, for smaller reporting companies,
Item 402(n)(2)(viii). These earnings, like the aggregate change in defined benefit plan actuarial
present value also reported pursuant to Item 402(c)(2)(viii), or Item 402(n)(2)(viii), are excluded
for purposes of a registrant’s NEO determination pursuant to Instruction 1 to Item 402(a)(3), or,
for smaller reporting companies, Instruction 1 to Item 402(n)(2)(viii). In adopting this Instruction,
the Commission stated it was appropriate to exclude these items because their amounts generally
are not determined by the Compensation Committee. Rather, they are “compensation elements
that principally reflect executives’ decisions to defer compensation and wealth accumulation in
pension plans, or are unduly influenced by age or years of service.” See Executive Compensation
and Related Person Disclosure, Release 33-8732A (Aug. 29, 2006) [71 FR 53158 (Sept. 8,
2006)], at Section II.C.6 (“Executive Compensation Release”). These reasons, however, do not
seem relevant to a determination of whether such compensation is “actually paid” for purposes of
the disclosure mandated by Section 14(i).

77

Instruction 4 to Item 402(c), or, for small reporting companies, Instruction 4 to Item 402(n).

78

Grant date fair value disclosure reflects compensation committee decisions during the relevant
fiscal year relating to equity awards. See Proxy Disclosure Enhancements, Release No. 33-9089
(Dec. 16, 2009) at Section II.A.2 [74 FR 68334] (Dec. 23, 2009).

37

have an unconditional right to an equity award. For example, the terms of both options
and restricted stock awards typically provide for forfeiture of the award if the executive
leaves the registrant’s employment before the vesting date or if specified performance
criteria are not met. Accordingly, we do not believe that an option or other equity award
should be considered “actually paid” for purposes of this disclosure before the applicable
vesting conditions are satisfied. Satisfaction of these conditions, which are determined
by the registrant, can be viewed as representing payment by the registrant. Moreover,
using vesting-date valuations will result in a compensation measure that includes, upon
the vesting date, the grant-date value of equity awards plus or minus any change in the
value of equity awards between the grant and vesting date. Such changes in the value of
equity grants after the grant date represent a direct channel, and one of the primary
means, through which pay is linked to registrant performance.
We do not believe that an award requiring exercise should be considered actually
paid only upon its exercise, because once the award is vested the executive can control
how and when the award is monetized, and thus could influence pay-versus-performance
disclosure by controlling the fiscal year in which the executive receives the
compensation. Changes in the fair value of the award after vesting generally reflect
investment decisions made by the executive rather than compensation decisions made by
the registrant.
The value of stock awards upon vesting is disclosed in the Option Exercises and
Stock Vested Table. 79 Registrants are not currently required to report the value of option
awards upon vesting if they are not exercised. However, registrants can apply existing
79

See Item 402(g)(2)(v). Smaller reporting companies are not required to provide this table.

38

models and methodologies to compute these values. Also, it is possible for shareholders
to make reasonable estimates of these vesting-date fair values of options based on current
disclosures.
In particular, the terms of unexercised option awards in a given year, including
their exercise prices and expiration dates, are required to be disclosed (together with
information about other outstanding awards) in the Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal
Year-End Table. 80 Information about the valuation assumptions used by the registrant to
calculate the grant-date value of option awards can be found in footnotes to the Summary
Compensation Table (which may refer to disclosures made on Form 10-K) for the year
corresponding to the grant date. 81 Disclosures about the vesting conditions that applied
to the awards can be used to determine which of the option awards are newly vested. 82
The translation of the reported terms of these options into their fair values at vesting
requires the choice of a valuation methodology and the use of public data and reasonable
80

See Item 402(f)(2)(v) and (vi). For smaller reporting companies, see Item 402(p)(2)(v) and (vi).
Some options may be exercised in the same year as vesting. Whether an option award that was
exercised had vested in the same year can be determined by comparing the Outstanding Equity
Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table per Item 402(f) or, for smaller reporting companies, Item
402(p), to the same table for the prior year, and identifying as exercised options those that are no
longer reported as outstanding. In such cases, the terms of these awards can be determined from
the Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table and related footnotes for the prior year
or, for options granted in the same year as exercise (which will not appear in disclosures for the
prior year) in footnotes to the Summary Compensation Table for the same year.

81

See Instruction 1 to Item 402(c)(2)(v) and (vi). For smaller reporting companies, see Instruction 1
to Item 402(n)(2)(v) and (vi).

82

Registrants are required to describe the material conditions of awards, including a general
description of the formula or criteria to be applied in determining the amounts payable, and the
vesting schedule, in the narrative disclosure to the Summary Compensation Table and Grants of
Plan-Based Awards table per Item 402(e) in the year in which an option award is granted. Smaller
reporting companies are required to describe the material conditions of awards in the narrative
disclosure to the Summary Compensation Table per Item 402(o) in the year in which an option
award is granted. The vesting date of options held at fiscal-year end must be disclosed by footnote
to the Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal-Year End table required by Item 402(f), or, for smaller
reporting companies, Item 402(p), of Regulation S-K.

39

assumptions (potentially with reference to the registrant’s disclosed grant-date valuation
assumptions) to obtain the additional inputs required for option valuation at vesting date.
Estimates thus computed by shareholders could differ from estimates computed by the
registrant and, as mentioned above, current disclosure rules do not require registrants to
compute and disclose their own estimates of these values.
Accordingly, for purposes of proposed Item 402(v), the amounts reported
pursuant to Items 402(c)(2)(v) and (vi) would be subtracted from total compensation
reported in the Summary Compensation Table, and the following would be added in their
place: 83
•

For awards of stock, that vested in the applicable year, the fair value at vesting
date, computed in accordance with the fair value guidance in FASB ASC Topic
718; and

•

For awards of options with or without tandem stock appreciation rights (“SARs”)
that vested in the applicable year, the fair value at vesting date, computed in
accordance with the fair value guidance in FASB ASC Topic 718. As proposed, a
registrant would be required to disclose vesting date valuation assumptions if they
are materially different from those disclosed in its financial statements as of the
grant date.

83

Proposed Item 402(v)(3) would require registrants to disclose in a footnote to the table required
under paragraph (v)(1), the total compensation amount reported in the Summary Compensation
Table for the covered fiscal year for each NEO as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(x), or, for smaller
reporting companies, paragraph (n)(2)(x), and the individual amounts deducted from, and
modifications to, the amounts reported in the Summary Compensation Table in generating the
amounts disclosed pursuant to Item 402(v) for the PEO(s). For NEOs other than the PEO,
proposed Item 402(v)(3) would require disclosure of these amounts as averages.

40

We believe shareholders may be interested in vesting date valuation assumptions to the
extent they believe that changes in the value of equity grants after the grant date are a
primary channel through which pay is linked to performance. We believe that requiring
disclosure of vesting date valuation assumptions would make these computations readily
accessible to shareholders, which may be useful to shareholders to the extent they are
interested in computing slightly different measures or using parts of the computations for
other purposes. Further, if during the last completed fiscal year the registrant adjusted or
amended the exercise price of previously vested options or SARs held by an NEO,
whether through amendment, cancellation or replacement grants, or any other means, or
otherwise has materially modified such awards, proposed Item 402(v) would require the
registrant to include the incremental fair value, computed as the excess fair value of the
modified award over the fair value of the original award upon vesting of the modified
award. If the modified award is subject to multiple vesting dates, the pro rata incremental
fair value would be determined and included in compensation actually paid at each
vesting date.
For example, a registrant grants an option (“original award”) for 1,000 shares of
common stock with an exercise price of $20 per share. By its terms, the original award
vests upon completion of a two-year service period. Upon vesting, the then fair value of
the original award is included in compensation actually paid. After the original award
vests, assume the registrant modifies its terms to reduce the exercise price to $15 per
share with 50% vesting immediately and 50% vesting upon completion of another twoyear service period (“modified award”). The incremental fair value that is included in
compensation actually paid will be computed at each of the modified award’s two vesting

41

dates based on the then excess fair value of the ratable 500 shares using the modified
award terms compared with the original award terms. In this example, compensation
actually paid would be determined three times, as the full fair value of the original award
at its vesting and the pro rata incremental fair value amounts at each of the two vesting
dates of the modified award. 84
Request for Comment
21. Does our proposed definition appropriately capture the concept of “executive
compensation actually paid?” Why or why not? Are there elements of
compensation excluded by our proposed definition that should not be?
Alternatively, does the proposed definition include any items that should be
excluded? If so, which ones and why?
22. Our proposal is designed, in part, to enhance comparability across registrants. Is
comparability across registrants relevant or necessary in determining which
compensation elements should be covered by the pay-versus-performance
disclosure? Why or why not?
23. Under our proposed approach, the disclosure may not necessarily align a
particular executive’s compensation with the time period during which the
registrant’s performance may be attributed to the executive. For example, this
may be the case where a turn-around specialist is hired and provided a substantial
incentive payment up front in order to assume the task of improving the
company’s performance. Should our approach account for this? If so, should we

84

See proposed Instruction 1 to Item 402(v). Note that if the original award had been modified
before it vested, the compensation actually paid would be determined only twice, as the pro rata
fair value of the modified award at each of its two vesting dates.

42

require this to be addressed in supplemental disclosure? Are there other
approaches we should consider?
24. Instead of our proposal, should we permit a principles-based approach that would
allow registrants to determine which elements of compensation to include, so long
as they clearly disclosed how the amount was calculated? Why or why not? How
should such a provision be structured? What requirements should we include?
25. Are there alternative methods of determining which compensation is relevant to
pay-versus-performance disclosure that we should consider?
26. Instead of our proposal, should we require only the use of the total compensation
reported in the Summary Compensation Table and permit registrants to
supplement this disclosure as they determine best reflects how their compensation
relates to company performance? How would this approach affect the usefulness,
comparability and cost of the pay-versus-performance disclosure?
27. Does our proposal to require only the actuarial present value of benefits
attributable to services rendered during the applicable fiscal year, rather than the
change in actuarial present value of pension benefits that is required by the
Summary Compensation Table, appropriately reflect compensation “actually
paid” to NEOs during that year for purposes of the pay-versus-performance
disclosure mandated by Section 14(i)?
28. Is our proposal to include in the Item 402(v) calculation only above-market or
preferential earnings on deferred compensation that is not tax-qualified
appropriate? Should the calculation instead include all earnings on deferred
compensation that are not tax-qualified rather than just the above-market portion?

43

Should the calculation only include the above-market portion once any vesting
conditions applicable to those earnings have been satisfied?
29. Should we value equity awards at vesting date fair value as proposed? Should we
instead value equity awards at grant date fair value as currently required by Item
402(c)(2)(v) and (vi) or fair value at some other point in time? If so, why?
Should we require disclosure of vesting date valuation assumptions if they are
materially different from those disclosed in a registrant’s financial statements as
of the grant date, as proposed? Would the disclosure of these assumptions
provide meaningful information to shareholders?
30. What concerns, if any, are presented if we require equity awards to be valued at
vesting date fair value as opposed to grant date fair value? Would any concerns
be mitigated by the inclusion in the table of the total compensation amount as
provided in the Summary Compensation Table?
31. Should any other components of compensation, such as registrant contributions to
defined contribution plans, also be included only after any applicable vesting
conditions have been satisfied?
32. For equity awards that require exercise, is our proposal to consider them “actually
paid” when vested the appropriate point in time for purposes of Item 402(v)
disclosure? If not, please explain. Should we instead require that for an award
that requires exercise to be considered “actually paid,” it must also be exercisable,
making the valuation date the date on which the award is both vested and
exercisable? Is there an alternative approach we should consider?

44

33. Are there other specific elements of compensation in the Summary Compensation
Table that we should exclude or modify for purposes of the pay-versusperformance disclosure called for under proposed Item 402(v)?
E.

Measure of Performance

We are proposing to require that registrants use TSR (as defined in Item 201(e) of
Regulation S-K) as the measure of financial performance of the registrant for purposes of
pay-versus-performance disclosure. 85 Exchange Act Section 14(i) does not specify how
registrant financial performance is to be measured, although the language in the statute
requires financial performance to take into account any change in the value of the shares
of stock and dividends of the registrant and any distributions of the registrant. We
believe using TSR as the measure of financial performance is consistent with this
requirement and we received several comments that supported this approach. 86
Several commenters in the pre-proposal stage indicated that absolute company
performance may not be a sufficient basis for comparison and advocated disclosure of
registrant performance relative to that of a peer group. 87 Consistent with these
suggestions, we also are proposing to require registrants, other than smaller reporting
companies, to disclose peer group total shareholder return, using either the same peer

85

Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K, which prescribes disclosure for the stock performance graph
included in the annual report to security holders required by Rules 14a-3 and 14c-3, provides that
cumulative total shareholder return is calculated by “dividing the (i) sum of (A) the cumulative
amount of dividends for the measurement period, assuming dividend reinvestment, and (B) the
difference between the registrant's share price at the end and the beginning of the measurement
period; by (ii) the share price at the beginning of the measurement period.” 17 CFR 229.201(e).

86

See letters from ClearBridge, Compensia, Farient, Meridian and MDU.

87

See letters from Farient, J&J, MDU, Pay Governance, Shareholder Value Advisors.

45

group used for purposes of Item 201(e) of Regulation S-K, 88 or, a peer group used in the
CD&A for purposes of disclosing registrants’ compensation benchmarking practices. 89 If
the peer group is not a published industry or line-of-business index, the registrant would
be required to disclose the identity of the issuers. A registrant that has previously
disclosed the composition of issuers in its peer group in prior filings with the
Commission would be permitted to comply with the proposed requirement by
incorporation by reference to those filings. We believe this would avoid the potential for
duplicative disclosure.
Requiring registrants to use a consistently calculated measure, such as TSR,
should increase the comparability of pay-versus-performance disclosure across
registrants. Using TSR also would provide a measure of financial performance that is
objectively determinable from the share price of the registrant and not open to subjective
determinations of performance. In addition, using a measure that registrants are already
required to determine and disclose, and with which shareholders already are familiar,
would reduce the burden of providing and analyzing pay-versus-performance disclosure
as compared to requiring registrants to calculate and shareholders to review a new
measure of financial performance.
Some commenters suggested permitting registrants to choose the performance
measure best-suited for their company. 90 One commenter suggested that registrants
88

17 CFR 229.201(e)(1)(ii).

89

See Item 402(b)(xiv) of Regulation S-K (17 CFR 229.402(b)(xiv)). We note that smaller reporting
companies are not subject to Item 201(e) and that requiring disclosure of peer group total
shareholder return would require smaller reporting companies to collect and disclose information
that they are not currently required to disclose.

90

See letters from ABA, CEC I, Davis Polk, Protective Life and SCSGP.

46

should be required to present additional performance measures. 91 We note that, as with
other mandated disclosures, registrants would be permitted to provide supplemental
measures of financial performance so long as any additional disclosure is clearly
identified, not misleading and not presented with greater prominence than the required
disclosure.
Request for Comment
34. Should we require registrants to use TSR as the performance measure? Would
the comparability across registrants resulting from this proposal benefit
shareholders? Would prescribing the use of TSR hinder registrants from
providing meaningful disclosure about the relationship between executive pay and
financial performance? Would requiring the use of TSR result in shareholders or
management focusing too much on this single measure of performance or
emphasizing short-term stock price improvement over the creation of long-term
shareholder value? If so, are there ways we could mitigate that risk?
35. Should we allow registrants flexibility in choosing the relevant measure of
performance they are required to disclose? Besides TSR, what other measures of
financial performance take into account any change in the value of the shares of
stock and dividends and distributions of the registrant, as required by the statute?
Are there metrics other than TSR that measure a company’s performance and
meet the requirements of the statute? If so, would they result in disclosures that

91

See letter from Public Citizen (recommending that registrants be required to present the
relationship of compensation with four performance measures: total shareholder return, return on
assets, return on equity, and the growth in earnings per share).

47

are more or less meaningful than TSR? How is corporate performance measured
today? How is this information incorporated into investment decisions?
36. If companies do not currently use TSR as a factor in determining executive
compensation, could requiring disclosure of this relationship cause companies to
change their compensation strategy to focus on this factor? If so, what would be
the effect?
37. Does TSR, standing alone, provide sufficient information about a registrant’s
performance such that a registrant would provide only the information that would
be mandated by this rule? Will registrants opt to provide additional information
based on their own calculations or metrics to provide additional context for
investors to consider the alignment of pay versus performance?
38. Should we permit voluntary use of other measures of performance in addition to
TSR, as proposed? Should we instead include specific requirements relating to
the use of alternative performance measures in the proposed rules?
39. Should we require disclosure of TSR on an absolute basis, as well as disclosure of
peer group TSR, as proposed? Why or why not? Are there other parameters we
should consider requiring registrants to implement for the selection of peer
groups?
40. Should we require disclosure about the registrant’s selection of the peer group?
For example, if a registrant using a peer group changes its peer group from one

48

used in the previous fiscal year, should we require a brief narrative explaining the
reasons for the change? 92
41. Our proposal requires a registrant to use the same peer group used for purposes of
Item 201(e) or the CD&A. Should a registrant be permitted to choose between
these two options, or should we prescribe which peer group should be used? Why
or why not? Should a registrant be permitted to choose a peer group different
from that used for purposes of Item 201(e) or its CD&A? Please explain. Should
there be any restrictions on how registrants select their peer groups?
F.

Time Period Covered

Section 14(i) does not specify the time period that the pay-versus-performance
disclosure must cover. Several commenters expressed concern that meaningful payversus-performance disclosure would need to address the time periods over which pay
and performance are evaluated. 93 Commenters recommended a variety of solutions to
provide meaningful disclosure, recommending varying types of disclosure over varying
time periods. 94
For registrants other than smaller reporting companies, we are proposing to
require registrants to provide the pay-versus-performance disclosure for the five most

92

See, e.g., Item 201(e)(4) of Regulation S-K, which provides that if a registrant chooses a different
index for the stock performance graph than the one used in the previous fiscal year, then the
registrant is required to explain the reason for the change and is also required to compare total
return with both the old and the new index.

93

See, e.g., letters from ClearBridge, Pay Governance and SCSGP.

94

See letters from Brian Foley & Company, ClearBridge and Pay Governance (supporting a oneyear and a three-year aggregate disclosure to capture annual and long-term compensation); J&J
(including a copy of their proxy materials in which they disclosed their PEO’s annual
compensation over five years in relation to total shareholder return and provided a separate table
showing aggregate compensation over a three-year period relative to a peer group); and from
Baker Donelson, Cook, Meridian, and MDU (supporting a five-year time period).

49

recently completed fiscal years. 95 As noted above, several commenters supported a
disclosure period of five years. 96 While the Summary Compensation Table required by
Item 402(c) of Regulation S-K requires compensation disclosure for each of the last three
completed fiscal years, we note that the stock performance graph required by Item 201(e)
of Regulation S-K requires disclosure for the previous five fiscal years, although it does
not include any compensation information. We believe that requiring disclosure of the
relationship between executive compensation and registrant performance over the five
most recently completed fiscal years is appropriate because it provides a meaningful
period over which a relationship between annual measures of pay and performance over
time can be evaluated. 97
Smaller reporting companies would be required to provide the disclosure for the
three most recently completed fiscal years. 98 Our executive compensation rules require
smaller reporting companies to provide disclosure for only the last two completed fiscal
years, 99 but we believe that requiring pay-versus-performance disclosure for three fiscal
years, instead of two, provides more useful information from which investors can
evaluate the relationship between a registrant’s executive compensation actually paid and
its financial performance, and provides a longer time horizon over which to observe any
potential trends. We also are proposing to provide a transition period for registrants to
95

See proposed Item 402(v)(2) of Regulation S-K.

96

See letters from Baker Donelson, Frederic Cook, MDU (noting that a five-year measurement
period moderates annual volatility and leads to more balanced comparisons), and Meridian.
We are proposing to require smaller reporting companies to provide the disclosure over three years
because they are not subject to Item 201(e) and provide Summary Compensation Table disclosure
for two completed fiscal years. See Item 402(n) of Regulation S-K.

97

98

See proposed Instruction 8 to Item 402(v)(2) of Regulation S-K.

99

See Item 402(n) of Regulation S-K.

50

provide the disclosure. Existing smaller reporting companies would be required to
provide the disclosure for only the last two fiscal years in the first applicable filing after
the rules become effective. In subsequent years such companies would be required to
provide disclosure for the last three fiscal years. 100 Any other registrants would be
required to provide the proposed Item 402(v) disclosure for three fiscal years, instead of
five, in the first applicable filing after the rules become effective, and provide disclosure
for an additional year in each of the two subsequent annual proxy filings where disclosure
is required.
We are also proposing that a registrant provide pay-versus-performance
disclosure only for years that it was a reporting company pursuant to Section 13(a) or
Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Thus, a newly-reporting registrant would be required
to provide pay-versus-performance disclosure for only the most recently ended fiscal year
in any proxy statement or information statement in which executive compensation
disclosure pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K is required in its first year as a
reporting company, and in the two most recently completed fiscal years in any proxy
statement or information statement in which executive compensation disclosure pursuant
to Item 402 of Regulation S-K is required in its second year as a reporting company.
This treatment is consistent with the phase-in period for new reporting companies in their
Summary Compensation Table disclosure. 101
Request for Comment
100

See proposed Instruction 1 to Item 402(v).

101

See Instruction 1 to Item 402(c) of Regulation S-K. Similarly, Item 201(e)(2) provides that if the
registrant has been registered under Section 12 for a shorter period of time than the prescribed
measurement period, the period covered by the performance graph may correspond to that time
period.

51

42. Does a five-year disclosure period (for registrants other than smaller reporting
companies) and a three-year disclosure period (for smaller reporting companies),
as proposed, provide meaningful pay-versus-performance disclosure? Should the
timeframes be shorter or longer? For example, should we require only three years
of disclosure for all registrants consistent with the time period required by the
Summary Compensation Table for registrants other than smaller reporting
companies? What impact would a different time period have on the disclosure
and its usefulness to shareholders?
43. Should we provide the proposed transition period for existing registrants? Why or
why not? Should the transition period be shorter or longer? Does it depend on
the type of registrant?
44. Should we permit registrants voluntarily to include fiscal years beyond the fiveyear period, as proposed? Please explain why or why not. Is there a risk that
some registrants may choose the time period which is most favorable for
performance? How could we mitigate this risk?
45. Is the proposed phase-in for new reporting companies appropriate? Is sufficient
information readily available for these companies to provide adequate pay-versusperformance disclosure in any proxy statements or information statements
requiring Item 402 disclosure in their first two years as a reporting company? If
not, what are the costs of developing this information? Would pay-versusperformance disclosure for only the most recently completed fiscal year in the
first proxy statement filed by a newly-reporting company, as proposed, provide
sufficient and meaningful information for shareholders to evaluate the executive

52

compensation actually paid as compared to the registrant’s financial performance,
given the limited time period covered? Does the importance of the information to
shareholders justify the costs of preparing the disclosure without a phase-in
period?
46. Should the pay-versus-performance disclosure be required to use annual data from
the five most recently completed fiscal years, as proposed, or aggregated data for
the five most recently completed fiscal years? If the years are aggregated, should
the relationship between pay and performance be demonstrated across peers
because it can no longer be demonstrated over time? Alternatively, should the
pay-versus-performance comparison be presented for both the last completed
fiscal year and in aggregate for the five most recently completed fiscal years? If
so, please explain why a different period and different level of aggregation than
proposed would be more informative to shareholders or otherwise more
appropriate.
47. Are there other transition issues or accommodations that we should consider? For
example, should emerging growth companies 102 that are statutorily excluded from
the requirements of Section 14(i) be provided the same phase-in period of payversus-performance disclosure applicable to other registrants when they first
become subject to the proposed requirement to provide five fiscal years of payversus-performance disclosure?

102

Section 102(a)(2) of the JOBS Act excludes “emerging growth companies” from the requirements
of Section 14(i). In accordance with this provision, we are not proposing to require an emerging
growth company to provide pay-versus-performance disclosure.

53

G.

Clear Description

Exchange Act Section 14(i) requires a “clear description” of the compensation
disclosure required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K. We believe the requirement in Item
402(a)(2) of Regulation S-K 103 for “clear, concise and understandable disclosure” and the
Plain English principles in Exchange Act Rules 13a-20 104 and 15d-20 105 give effect to the
requirement in new Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act for clear compensation disclosure.
When the current compensation disclosure requirements were adopted, we also amended
Exchange Act Rules 13a-20 and 15d-20 so that the Plain English principles would apply
to the amended compensation disclosure. 106 In adopting the Plain English requirement
for compensation disclosure, we stated, “clearer, more concise presentation of executive
and director compensation . . . can facilitate more informed investing and voting
decisions in the face of complex information about these important areas.” 107 We think
this statement applies equally to pay-versus-performance disclosure. In addition, we
noted that the Plain English principles applicable to compensation disclosure would
permit registrants to “include tables or other design elements, so long as the design is not
misleading and the required information is clear, understandable, consistent with
applicable disclosure requirements, consistent with any other included information, and
not misleading.” 108 As a result, registrants are permitted to provide additional

103

17 CFR 229.402(a)(2).

104

17 CFR 240.13a-20.

105

17 CFR 240.15d-20.

106

See Executive Compensation Release, supra note 76.

107
108

Id.
Id.

54

information beyond what is specifically required by our rules so long as the information
is not misleading and does not obscure the required information.
Request for Comment
48. Are there changes to our rules that are necessary or appropriate in order to give
effect to the requirement in Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act for a clear
description of the Item 402(v) compensation disclosure?
49. Is it appropriate to apply the Plain English principles to the pay-versusperformance disclosure? If not, please explain why.
H.

Smaller Reporting Companies

As proposed, smaller reporting companies as defined in Item 10(f)(1) of
Regulation S-K 109 would be required to provide Item 402(v) disclosure. In an effort to
minimize the reporting costs for these registrants, consistent with the Commission’s
treatment of smaller reporting companies in other areas (e.g., executive compensation),
these companies would be permitted to provide scaled disclosure, as follows:
•

First, smaller reporting companies would be required to present Item 402(v)
disclosure for the three most recently completed fiscal years, as opposed to the
five most recently completed fiscal years required for other registrants. This is
consistent with our general approach to scaling the requirements for executive
compensation disclosure provided by smaller reporting companies.

•

Second, smaller reporting companies would not be required to disclose
amounts related to pensions for purposes of disclosing executive

109

17 CFR 229.10(f)(1).

55

compensation actually paid because they are subject to scaled compensation
disclosure that does not include pension plans.
•

Finally, smaller reporting companies would not be required to present a peer
group TSR. Smaller reporting companies are not subject to Item 201(e) and
therefore are not otherwise required to present the TSR of a peer group, and
they are not required to present a CD&A.

In addition, as proposed, the rule includes a transition period that would permit an
existing smaller reporting company to provide two years of data, instead of three, in the
first applicable filing after the rules become effective, and three years of data in
subsequent proxy filings.
Smaller reporting companies are only required to provide Summary
Compensation Table disclosure for the two most recently completed fiscal years. While
the time period applicable for the proposed disclosure is longer than what smaller
reporting companies currently are required to disclose in the Summary Compensation
Table, we note that the information required to make the pay-versus-performance
calculations for these additional years would be available in disclosures from prior years.
As proposed, smaller reporting companies would be required to provide the
disclosure in the prescribed table in XBRL format, but we are proposing a phase-in under
which smaller reporting companies would be required to provide the data in XBRL
beginning with the third filing in which it provides pay-versus-performance disclosure. 110

110

Providing a phase-in for smaller reporting companies is consistent with how we have previously
implemented certain new disclosure requirements applicable to these companies. See, e.g.,
Interactive Data to Improve Financial Reporting, Release No. 33-9002 (Jan. 30, 2009) [74 FR
6776 (Feb. 10, 2009)]; Shareholder Approval of Executive Compensation and Golden Parachute
Compensation, Release No. 33-9178 (Jan. 25, 2011) [76 FR 6010 (Feb. 2, 2011)].

56

This phase-in is intended to permit smaller reporting companies to plan and implement
their data tagging with the benefit of the experience of other registrants that do not have a
phase-in. It also will give them a longer period of time over which to spread first-year
data tagging costs. While we recognize that requiring this disclosure to be provided in
interactive data format would impose additional costs and burdens on these companies,
beyond what they currently incur in producing interactive data for other purposes in other
filings, we anticipate that these expenses would be relatively lower than what they
currently incur in producing interactive data for other purposes given the limited
disclosures that would be required to be tagged.
We do not expect the compliance burden associated with providing this disclosure
to be substantial given that much of the information required by the proposed rule is
derived from information currently required under existing Regulation S-K. We also
note that smaller reporting companies are subject to the say-on-pay advisory votes
required under Exchange Act Rule 14a-21, 111 which the pay-versus-performance
disclosure required under proposed Item 402(v) is intended to facilitate. We believe that
shareholders of smaller reporting companies may benefit from having the proposed payversus-performance disclosure when casting their say-on-pay advisory votes and that
such disclosure can be provided without imposing undue costs on smaller registrants.
Request for Comment

111

See Release No. 33-9178, supra note 10 (“We do not believe that smaller reporting companies
should be permanently exempt from the say-on-pay vote, frequency of say-on-pay votes and
golden parachute and vote because we believe investors have the same interest in voting on the
compensation of smaller reporting companies and in clear and simple disclosure of golden
parachute compensation in connection with mergers and similar transactions as they have for other
issuers.”).

57

50. Would the proposed scaled disclosure requirements for smaller reporting
companies provide meaningful disclosure to investors without imposing undue
costs and burdens on these companies? Are there ways we could modify the
proposed disclosure requirements to reduce the costs and still provide useful
information for shareholders? For example, should we require only a two-year
disclosure period for smaller reporting companies (similar to the timeframe for
which they are required to provide disclosure in the Summary Compensation
Table)?
51. Should we exempt smaller reporting companies from the proposed pay-versusperformance disclosure requirements? Why or why not? What impact, if any,
would the absence of the proposed disclosure have on the ability of shareholders
of smaller reporting companies to effectively exercise of their say-on-pay voting
rights? Would shareholders be able to assess the relationship between the
company’s financial performance and the compensation paid absent the disclosure
required under proposed Item 402(v)? Would the proposed disclosure be more or
less meaningful to shareholders in the absence of CD&A and Item 201(e)
performance graph disclosure? What are the burdens on smaller reporting
companies of requiring pay-versus-performance disclosure and would the benefits
of requiring this disclosure for smaller reporting companies justify the burdens?
If not, please explain why not. Should registrants that exit smaller reporting
company status be provided the same phase-in period applicable to other
registrants when they first become subject to the proposed requirement to provide
five fiscal years of pay-versus-performance disclosure?

58

III.

General Request for Comments
We request and encourage any interested person to submit comments on any

aspect of our proposals, other matters that might have an impact on the amendments, and
any suggestions for additional changes. With respect to any comments, we note that they
are of greatest assistance to our rulemaking initiative if accompanied by supporting data
and analysis of the issues addressed in those comments and by alternatives to our
proposals where appropriate.
In addition, we request data to quantify the costs and the value of the benefits
described in this release. We seek estimates of these costs and benefits, as well as any
costs and benefits not already defined, that may result from the adoption of these
proposed amendments. We also request qualitative feedback on the nature of the benefits
and costs we have identified and any benefits and costs we may have overlooked.
To assist in our consideration of these costs and benefits, we specifically request
comment on the following:
52. Would there be any significant transition costs imposed on registrants as a result
of the proposal, if adopted? Please be detailed and provide quantitative data or
support, as practicable.
53. Have we struck the appropriate balance between prescribing rules to satisfy the
requirements of Exchange Act Section 14(i) and allowing registrants to disclose
pay-versus-performance information most relevant to shareholders?
54. Are there alternatives to the proposals we should consider that would satisfy the
requirements of Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act?

59

IV.

Economic Analysis
A.

Background

As discussed above, Section 953(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act added Section 14(i) to
the Exchange Act, directing the Commission to require registrants to disclose in any
proxy or consent solicitation material for an annual meeting of the shareholders the
relationship between executive compensation actually paid and the financial performance
of the registrant. Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act does not define key terms, such as
“executive compensation actually paid” or issuer “financial performance,” or prescribe a
specific format for this disclosure. As a result, we apply discretion in our proposed
implementation of the provision.
New Item 402(v) proposed by the Commission to satisfy the mandate of Section
14(i) requires the disclosure of information that is largely already required to be reported
under current disclosure rules, but that is currently not computed or presented in the way
the proposal would require. The proposal requires registrants to present the values of
prescribed measures of executive compensation and performance for each of their five
most recently completed fiscal years (three years for smaller reporting companies) in a
standardized table. Registrants would be required to provide a clear description of the
relationship between these measures, but would be allowed to choose the format used to
present the relationship, such as a graph or narrative description. The proposal would
also allow registrants to supplement the required elements of the disclosure with
additional measures or additional years of data. The disclosure would be required to be
provided in tagged data format using XBRL.

60

The proposed amendments would require that the compensation covered by the
disclosure be “executive compensation actually paid.” Registrants would also be
required to include the Summary Compensation Table measure of total compensation in
the tabular disclosure for purposes of comparison. The proposal defines executive
compensation actually paid as total compensation, as currently disclosed in the Summary
Compensation Table, with modifications to the amounts disclosed for pension benefits
(under all defined benefit and actuarial pension plans) and equity awards in order to
better reflect amounts “actually paid.”
Specifically, we propose that, instead of the total change in actuarial pension
value, executive compensation actually paid include only the actuarial present value of
benefits attributable to services rendered during the applicable fiscal year. That is, the
measure would exclude that part of the change in actuarial pension value that results from
any change in the actuarial value of benefits accrued in previous years, and should thus
increase the comparability between compensation provided through defined benefit and
defined contribution plans. This adjustment is also expected to reduce the volatility in
measured pension compensation caused by changes in interest rates and other actuarial
assumptions, and should thus make it easier to evaluate the relationship of pay-versusperformance. Because the scaled compensation disclosure that applies to smaller
reporting companies does not include pension plans, this adjustment would not be
required of smaller reporting companies. We also propose that executive compensation
actually paid include the values of equity awards at the time of vesting rather than the
date they are granted. Using vesting-date valuations would result in a compensation
measure that includes, upon the vesting date, the grant date value of equity awards plus or

61

minus any change in the value of equity awards between the grant and vesting date. As
discussed below, such changes in the value of equity awards after the grant date represent
a direct channel, and one of the primary means, though which pay is linked to registrant
performance. We therefore believe that it is important that such changes in the value of
equity awards be reflected in the pay-versus-performance disclosure. 112
All of the individual components needed to calculate executive compensation
actually paid must already be reported under current disclosure rules, with the exception
of the values to be included with respect to pension benefits and option awards. The
actuarial present value of pension benefits of an individual NEO attributable to services
rendered during the applicable fiscal year is not currently required to be reported but can
be estimated by shareholders based on existing disclosures with respect to pension
benefits and pension valuation assumptions. The vesting-date values of option awards
can similarly be estimated by shareholders using existing disclosures regarding the terms
of option awards, their grant-date values and grant-date valuation assumptions, but
arriving at such estimates could require shareholders to make vesting-date valuation
assumptions that could differ from the grant-date valuation assumptions. The disclosure
of executive compensation actually paid may therefore provide shareholders with
marginal new information about the particular assumptions made by registrants in
estimating vesting-date valuations.

112

To the extent that some shareholders may be interested in considering the relationship of performance
with a measure of pay that excludes such changes in the value of equity awards, they would be able to refer
to the Summary Compensation Table measure of total compensation required alongside executive
compensation actually paid in the tabular disclosure. The Summary Compensation Table measure of total
compensation reflects the grant date values of equity awards.

62

The proposed amendments would require TSR to be the measure of financial
performance used for the pay-versus-performance disclosure. Registrants other than
smaller reporting companies would be required to include the TSR for a peer group as
well as the registrants’ own TSR in the required table. Registrants would also be required
to provide a description of the relationship of their own TSR with executive
compensation actually paid and, for registrants other than smaller reporting companies, of
their own TSR with the reported peer group TSR. For this purpose, registrants may use
the peer group used for their Item 201(e) performance graph in their annual report or the
peer group used in their CD&A, if any.
The proposed amendments would permit registrants to present supplemental
measures of both performance and compensation. Also, the proposed amendments would
not prescribe the format in which the relationship between executive compensation
actually paid and TSR is presented, though the amendment would require that the
disclosure present this relationship over the five prior fiscal years (three years for smaller
reporting companies). The proposal would also require footnote disclosure of the
adjustments made to compute executive compensation actually paid and disclosure of the
vesting date valuation assumptions, if materially different from the grant date
assumptions.
We are proposing these amendments to satisfy the statutory mandate of Section
14(i) of the Exchange Act. The Senate Report that accompanied the statute references
shareholder interest in the relationship between executive pay and performance as well as

63

the general benefits of transparency of executive pay practices. 113 As discussed above,
we believe that the statute is intended to provide further disclosures for shareholders to
consider when making say-on-pay voting decisions, as well as when making other voting
decisions on the compensation plans in which NEOs participate, and making decisions
pertaining to the election of directors.
Exchange Act Section 3(f) requires us, when engaging in rulemaking that requires
us to consider or determine whether an action is necessary or appropriate in the public
interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of shareholders, whether the action will
promote efficiency, competition and capital formation. Exchange Act Section 23(a)(2)
requires us, when adopting rules under the Exchange Act, to consider the impact that any
new rule would have on competition and not to adopt any rule that would impose a
burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes
of the Exchange Act.
The discussion below addresses the economic effects of the proposed
amendments, including its anticipated costs and benefits, as well as the likely effects of
the proposed amendment on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. The
proposed amendments reflect the statutory mandate in Section 14(i) as well as the
discretion we exercise in implementing that mandate. For purposes of this economic
analysis, we address the costs and benefits resulting from the statutory mandate and from
our exercise of discretion together, recognizing that it is difficult to separate the costs and

113

The Senate Report includes the following with respect to Section 953(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act:
“It has become apparent that a significant concern of shareholders is the relationship between
executive pay and the company’s financial performance of the issuers… The Committee believes
that these disclosures will add to corporate responsibility as firms will have to more clearly
disclose and explain executive pay.” See the Senate Report supra note 7.

64

benefits arising from these two sources. We also analyze the potential costs and benefits
of significant alternatives to what is proposed. We request comment throughout this
release on alternative means of meeting the statutory mandate of Section 14(i) of the
Exchange Act and on all aspects of the costs and benefits of the proposed approach and
of possible alternatives. We also request comment on any effect the proposed disclosure
requirements may have on efficiency, competition and capital formation.
B.

Baseline

To assess the economic impact of the proposed amendments, we are using as our
baseline the current state of the market without a requirement for registrants to disclose
the relationship between executive compensation actually paid and the financial
performance of the registrant. We consider the impact of the proposed amendment on
shareholders, registrants, and their NEOs. The proposed amendments would apply to all
companies that are registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act and are therefore
subject to the federal proxy rules, except emerging growth companies. The proposed
amendments would also not apply to foreign private issuers or companies with reporting
obligations only under Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, which are not subject to the
proxy rules. In addition, for some Section 12(g) registrants, such as limited partnerships,
the disclosure requirement might not apply in some or all years because these registrants
might not file either proxy or information statements every year. 114

114

Registrants subject to the proposed amendments would be required to make pay-versusperformance disclosure under proposed Item 402(v) when they file proxy statements or
information statements in which executive compensation disclosure pursuant to Item 402 of
Regulation S-K is required. Proxy statement disclosure obligations only arise under Section 14(a)
when a registrant with a class of securities registered under Section 12 chooses to solicit proxies.
Whether or not a registrant has to solicit proxies is dependent upon any requirement under its
charter and/or bylaws, or otherwise imposed by law in the state of incorporation and/or stock-

65

We estimate that approximately 6,075 registrants would be subject to the
proposed amendments, including approximately 2,430 smaller reporting companies. 115
Among all registrants subject to the federal proxy rules, we estimate that there are
approximately 360 emerging growth companies, of which approximately 230 are also
smaller reporting companies, all of which would not be subject to the proposed
amendments. 116
The economic effects of pay-versus-performance disclosure will depend, in part,
on whether new information that could not be derived from existing disclosures would be
made available to shareholders. The proposed amendments are not expected to result in
the provision of significant new information to shareholders, or to require registrants to
collect significant new data, relative to disclosure requirements under the baseline. The
registrants that would be subject to the proposed amendments must currently comply with
Item 402 of Regulation S-K and, except in the case of smaller reporting companies, with
Item 201(e). The underlying information required to provide the proposed pay-versusperformance disclosure is, with the exception of vesting-date valuation assumptions for

exchange (if listed), not the federal securities laws. For example, NYSE, NYSE Market, and
NASDAQ require the solicitation of proxies for annual meetings of shareholders. A Section 12(b)
registrant is listed on a national securities exchange, and therefore likely would solicit proxies and
be compelled to provide the disclosure identified in proposed Item 402(v) annually. Registrants
with reporting obligations under Section 12(g), but not Section 12(b), would not be subject to any
obligation to solicit proxies under the listing standards of an exchange, but may nevertheless
solicit proxies as a result of an obligation under their charters, bylaws, or law of the jurisdiction in
which they are incorporated. When Section 12 registrants that do not solicit proxies from any or
all security holders are nevertheless authorized by security holders to take a corporate action at or
in connection with an annual meeting or by written consent in lieu of such meeting, disclosure
obligations also would arise under proposed Item 402(v) due to the requirement to file and
disseminate an information statement under Section 14(c).
115
116

These estimates are based on a review of calendar year 2013 EDGAR filings.
Id.

66

options, already encompassed by these existing disclosure requirements and, for smaller
reporting companies and for registrants that use a peer group from their CD&A, in the
public availability of stock return data.
Specifically, Item 201(e) requires the disclosure of the TSR for the registrant as
well as a peer group (a published industry or line-of-business index, peer issuers selected
by the registrant, or issuers with similar market capitalizations), for the past five years, in
annual reports. 117 The proposed amendments mandate that TSR of the registrant and a
peer group be the primary measures of performance used in the pay-versus-performance
disclosure. While registrants may instead choose to use the peer group disclosed in their
CD&A, if they use a peer group in benchmarking their compensation, the components of
such a peer group would be disclosed in the CD&A and the shareholder returns of these
companies would be publicly available from many sources, if not already reported in the
CD&A. Similarly, while smaller reporting companies are not required to comply with
Item 201(e) or CD&A disclosure requirements and yet would still have to report their
own TSR under the proposed rules, data about their returns is publicly available. The
proposal does not require smaller reporting companies to present the performance of a
peer group.
Further, Item 402 currently requires the affected registrants to disclose extensive
information about the compensation of NEOs. For example, registrants subject to Item
117

Item 201(e) disclosure is only required in an annual report that precedes or accompanies a
registrant's proxy or information statement relating to an annual meeting of security holders at
which directors are to be elected (or special meeting or written consents in lieu of such meeting).
As discussed above, an annual meeting could theoretically not include an election of directors,
such that Item 201(e) disclosure would not be required, although pay-versus-performance
disclosure would still be required in such years if action is to be taken with regard to executive
compensation.

67

402 are required to report the value of total compensation and each of its components, 118
including, for the affected registrants other than smaller reporting companies, the total
change (if positive) in actuarial present value of pension benefits and, for all of the
affected registrants, the grant-date value of equity awards, for all NEOs in the Summary
Compensation Table. Item 402 requires further disclosure in additional related tables,
footnotes, and/or the accompanying textual narrative. Based on this information, it
would be possible in the absence of the proposed disclosure for shareholders to estimate
the proposed measure of executive compensation actually paid by deducting the current
values reported with respect to pension and equity awards from total compensation and
then estimating and adding to this value the proposed revised values with respect to these
two components where applicable.
Specifically, the proposed definition of executive compensation actually paid for
a fiscal year is total compensation as reported in the Summary Compensation Table for
that year (i) less the change in the actuarial present value of pension benefits, 119 (ii) less
the grant-date value of any stock and option awards granted during that year that are
subject to vesting, (iii) plus the actuarial present value of benefits attributable to services
rendered during the applicable year, and (iv) plus the value at vesting of stock and option
awards that vested during that year. Adjustments (i) and (iii) with respect to pension
118

For registrants that are not smaller reporting companies, total compensation consists of the dollar
value of the executive’s base salary and bonus, plus the fair market value at the grant date of any
new stock and option awards, the value of any non-equity incentive plan awards, the change (if
positive) in actuarial value of the accumulated benefit under all defined benefit and pension plans,
any above-market interest or preferential earnings on deferred compensation and all other
compensation. The all other compensation component includes, among other things, the value of
perquisites and other personal benefits (unless less than $10,000 in aggregate) and registrant
contributions to defined contribution plans.

119

If the change in actuarial value of pension plans is not positive, it is not currently included in total
compensation and therefore need not be deducted for the purpose of this adjustment.

68

plans would not apply to smaller reporting companies as they are not otherwise required
to disclose executive compensation related to pension plans. As discussed above, the
amounts to be subtracted in this computation, as well as the value of stock awards at
vesting (which must be added back), must be reported under existing Item 402
requirements. The other amounts that must be added back in this computation are not
required to be directly reported under existing disclosure requirements but can be
estimated based on existing disclosures. While the time period applicable for Item 402
disclosures (two years for smaller reporting companies and three years for other affected
registrants) is shorter than would be required for the pay-versus-performance disclosure
(three years for smaller reporting companies and five years for other affected registrants),
the information required to make these computations for the additional years would be
available in disclosures from previous years.
Thus, under the baseline, shareholders already have the required data to compute
a reasonable estimate of the proposed measure of executive compensation actually paid,
even though registrants are not required to compute or disclose this measure. In
particular, as discussed above, the actuarial present value of benefits attributable to
services rendered during the applicable fiscal year can be computed using the detailed
existing disclosures of pension plan terms and valuation assumptions. It is also possible
for shareholders to make reasonable estimates of the vesting-date fair values of options
based on existing compensation disclosures and public data. However, as discussed
above, estimates of vesting-date valuations computed by shareholders could differ from
estimates computed by the registrant. Under the baseline, because registrants are not
currently required to disclose vesting-date valuation assumptions (which may differ from

69

grant-date assumptions), shareholders may not know how the registrant would apply its
discretion in choosing from a range of reasonable assumptions to compute vesting-date
valuations.
For the affected registrants other than smaller reporting companies, Item 402 also
requires a description in the CD&A of how the registrant’s compensation policy relates
pay to performance, if material to the registrant’s compensation policies and decisions.
However, registrants are not currently required to report the actual historical relationship
between any measures of compensation and financial performance. Some registrants
voluntarily provide such disclosures, which are generally limited to analyses of the
compensation of the PEO and which vary with regard to the compensation and
performance measures used. 120 The comparability of these voluntary disclosures is
therefore limited, and observers have raised concerns that registrants have selected
measures that make the alignment of pay and performance appear more favorable. 121
Certain shareholders also may have access to analyses of historical pay-versusperformance data produced by third parties, such as proxy advisory firms and
compensation consultants. These analyses are based on compensation and performance

120

A compensation consulting firm found that, of 250 large public companies examined, 27%
provided tabular or graphical information on the relationship between pay and performance in the
CD&A of their 2013 proxy statements, and the majority of these provided such information only
with respect to the PEO’s compensation. See 2013 Corporate Governance & Incentive Design
Survey, Meridian Compensation Partners, Fall 2013, available at
http://www.meridiancp.com/images/uploads/Meridian_2013_Governance_and_Design_Survey.pd
f. In a study of the 300 largest companies filing proxy statements in the year ended April 2013,
another consulting firm found over half a dozen different approaches to realizable pay-versusperformance disclosures. See Executive Compensation 2013, Hay Group, Feb. 2014, available at
http://www.haygroup.com/downloads/us/exec_comp_2013.pdf.

121

See, e.g., Dave Michaels, Misleading CEO Pay-for-Performance Numbers Target of SEC,
Bloomberg, Dec. 17, 2013, available at http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-12-17/misleadingceo-pay-for-performance-numbers-target-of-sec.html.

70

information disclosed by registrants, and they may apply more consistent methodologies
across registrants, but the computations and analytical approaches used vary across the
third-party information providers. 122 Some other shareholders may generate their own
pay-versus-performance analyses, but we do not have access to information about the
computations or approaches that they find to be useful.
An important factor to consider when analyzing the effects of the proposed payversus-performance disclosure requirements is the variation in compensation structures
that is likely to exist among the affected registrants. In particular, because the proposed
amendments require that equity awards and compensation related to pension plans be
valued differently, and (in the case of equity awards) in different years than as valued in
the Summary Compensation Table, the variation in usage and design of these items in
executive compensation packages may affect the comparability of the disclosures and the
burden involved in making the required calculations to provide the disclosures.
The proposed amendments require that executive compensation actually paid
include the vesting-date values of stock grants, which are provided in the Option
Exercises and Stock Vested Table but likely differ from the grant date values included in
total compensation in the Summary Compensation Table. The use of stock grants, and
the frequency of such grants to the CEO, by some of the potentially affected registrants is
reported in the table below. 123
122

See, e.g., http://www.issgovernance.com/file/publications/evaluatingpayforperformance.pdf, and
http://www.glasslewis.com/issuer/pay-for-performance for detail on quantitative analyses of pay
for performance used by Institutional Shareholder Services Inc. and Glass Lewis & Co., LLC,
respectively.

123

These statistics are based on staff analyses of compensation data from the Standard & Poor’s
Execucomp database, which in turn is sourced from company proxy statements. Execucomp
covers firms in the S&P Composite 1500 Index (which includes the S&P 500, S&P MidCap 400,

71

Table 1. Use of executive stock grants by registrants covered by Execucomp

Firms in Sample

All Firms in
Database

Firms in
S&P 500

Firms in S&P
MidCap 400

Firms in S&P
SmallCap 600

1,812

496

396

598

80.2%

88.9%

87.4%

76.8%

Stock Grants to 2012 CEO:
% of CEOs Granted Stock in 2012

Among firms for which 2012 CEO was also CEO in 2011 and 2010:
% of CEOs Granted Stock 1 out
of Past 3 Years (2010-2012) 124

7.8%

3.6%

6.0%

10.6%

% of CEOs Granted Stock 2 out
of Past 3 Years (2010-2012) 125

10.3%

7.0%

7.9%

11.6%

% of CEOs Granted Stock 3 out
of Past 3 Years (2010-2012) 126

70.1%

81.1%

79.6%

62.2%

% of Firms that Granted Stock to
Any NEO other than CEO in 2012

86.9%

94.4%

93.9%

83.4%

Among Firms that Made Such
Grants, Average Number of Other
NEOs Granted Stock in 2012

4.1

4.3

4.2

3.9

Stock Grants to Other 2012 NEOs:

and S&P SmallCap 600) as well as some firms that were previously removed from the index but
are still trading and some client requests. Years mentioned refer to fiscal years, under the
convention that companies with fiscal closings after May 31 in a given year are assigned to that
fiscal year while companies with fiscal closings on or before May 31 in a given year are assigned
to the previous fiscal year. Use of the term “CEO” is based on the use of this term in the
Execucomp database, and is believed to be equivalent to the term “principal executive officer”
used in this release.
124

This percentage is only taken among those firms for which the CEO for the 2012 fiscal year was
also the CEO in 2011 and 2010, and represents the percentage of such firms that issued this
individual stock in only one fiscal year from 2010 through 2012.

125

This percentage is only taken among those firms for which the CEO for the 2012 fiscal year was
also the CEO in 2011 and 2010, and represents the percentage of such firms that issued this
individual stock in two fiscal years from 2010 through 2012.

126

This percentage is only taken among those firms for which the CEO for the 2012 fiscal year was
also the CEO in 2011 and 2010, and represents the percentage of such firms that issued this
individual stock every fiscal year from 2010 through 2012.

72

The proposed amendments require that executive compensation actually paid
include the vesting-date values of option grants, values that are not currently reported and
likely differ from the grant date values included in total compensation in the Summary
Compensation Table. The use of option grants, and the frequency of such grants to the
CEO, by some of the potentially affected registrants is reported in the table below. 127
Table 2. Use of executive stock option grants by registrants covered by Execucomp
All Firms in
Database

Firms in
S&P 500

Firms in S&P
MidCap 400

Firms in S&P
SmallCap 600

1,812

496

396

598

50.3%

64.1%

49.0%

43.1%

Firms in Sample
Option Grants to 2012 CEO
% of CEOs Granted Options in
2012

Among firms for which 2012 CEO was also CEO in 2011 and 2010:
% of CEOs Granted Options 1
out of Past 3 Years (20102012) 128

10.6%

6.5%

11.0%

12.2%

% of CEOs Granted Options 2
out of Past 3 Years (20102012) 129

12.3%

9.8%

11.6%

12.2%

% of CEOs Granted Options 3
out of Past 3 Years (20102012) 130

42.4%

59.8%

40.9%

34.3%

Option Grants to Other 2012 NEOs:
127

See supra note 123.

128

This percentage is only taken among those firms for which the CEO for the 2012 fiscal year was
also the CEO in 2011 and 2010, and represents the percentage of such firms that issued these
individual options in only one fiscal year from 2010 through 2012.

129

This percentage is only taken among those firms for which the CEO for the 2012 fiscal year was
also the CEO in 2011 and 2010, and represents the percentage of such firms that issued these
individual options in two fiscal years from 2010 through 2012.

130

This percentage is only taken among those firms for which the CEO for the 2012 fiscal year was
also the CEO in 2011 and 2010, and represents the percentage of such firms that issued these
individual options every fiscal year from 2010 through 2012.

73

% of Firms that Granted
Options to Any NEO other than
CEO in 2012

57.8%

68.5%

55.8%

51.3%

Among Firms that Made Such
Grants, Average Number of
Other NEOs Granted Options in
2012

3.9

4.2

4.0

3.6

In addition, because the proposed amendments require the valuation of equity
awards as of their vesting dates, it is also important to consider the variation in timebased vesting schedules. In particular, the proposed measure of executive compensation
actually paid includes the vesting-date value of equity awards that vested during the
applicable year. The measure as of vesting reflects the grant-date valuation as well as
changes in value of the award between the grant and vesting date, such as those related to
gains and losses of the underlying stock since the award was granted. The proposed
measure of executive compensation actually paid may thus increase sharply in any year
during which significant equity awards vest. The degree of volatility in the executive
compensation actually paid measure that may result is likely to be higher when grants
vest all at once or when vesting dates are less frequent.
A compensation research and services firm estimates that 34% of stock grants and
6.8% of option grants awarded by S&P 1500 firms in 2012 are scheduled to vest in full at
the end of their vesting period (“cliff vesting”) while the remaining are scheduled to vest
in increments over the period of vesting (“graded vesting”). 131 Considering grants
awarded over a longer horizon, an academic study that explored the vesting of option
131

See Equity Vesting Schedules for S&P 1500 CEOs, a 2013 report by Equilar, available at
http://www.equilar.com/corporate-governance/2013-reports/equity-vesting-schedules-for-s-p1500-ceos.

74

grants of some of the potentially affected registrants from 1997 to 2008 found that 32%
of the grants studied cliff vested, 55% vested in equal installments over the period of
vesting, and 13% had an alternative, irregular vesting pattern. 132 Some equity awards
may also be subject to performance-based vesting conditions, where the performance
conditions may be based on the registrants’ stock prices, their accounting performance,
one or more nonfinancial measures, or some combination of these. A preliminary
academic study finds that performance-based vesting conditions have become more
prevalent in recent years, such that in 2012 just under 70% of large U.S. firms utilized
such a provision in a grant to one or more executives, compared to approximately 20% of
such firms in the year 2000. 133
Another component of compensation that is measured differently in the proposed
definition of executive compensation actually paid as compared to total compensation in
the Summary Compensation Table is, for the affected registrants other than smaller
reporting companies, compensation related to pension plans. The use of pension plans
and the years of credited service at some of the potentially affected registrants are
reported in the table below. 134
Table 3. Use of pension plans by registrants covered by Execucomp
All Firms in

Firms in

Firms in S&P

Firms in S&P

132

See B. Cadman, T. Rusticus, and J. Sunder, Stock option grant vesting terms: Economic and
financial reporting determinants, REVIEW OF ACCOUNTING STUDIES, Vol. 18, No. 4, (Dec. 2013),
at 1159-1190. Because this paper uses data from 1997 to 2008, it might not accurately reflect
current practices.

133

See J. C. Bettis, J. Bizjak, J. Coles, and S. Kalpathy, Performance-Vesting Provisions in Executive
Compensation, working paper (Dec. 2013), available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2289566.

134

See supra note 122.

75

Database

S&P 500

MidCap 400

SmallCap 600

1,812

496

396

598

% of CEOs with Pension Plans

33.7%

54.0%

37.6%

21.9%

Among Firms with CEO Plans,
Median Years of Credited
Service in Pension Plan

20

23

19

19

% Firms with Pension Plans for
any NEO other than CEO

38.9%

59.9%

41.2%

26.4%

Among Firms with Other NEO
Plans, Average Number of
Other NEOs with Pension Plans

3.3

3.6

3.2

3.0

Firms in Sample
2012 Pension Plans

For the affected registrants other than smaller reporting companies, the proposed
amendments require that executive compensation actually paid include only the actuarial
present value of benefits attributable to services rendered during the applicable fiscal
year, a value which is not currently required to be reported and will usually differ from
the total change in actuarial value of pension benefits included, if positive, in total
compensation reported in the Summary Compensation Table. In particular, the value
currently included in total compensation reflects the change in actuarial pension value
related to changes in the value of benefits accrued in prior years as well as the value of
benefits attributable to services rendered during the applicable fiscal year. As such, the
value currently included with respect to pensions in total compensation reported in the
Summary Compensation Table will generally be more volatile (because of changes in
interest rates and other actuarial assumptions) than the value to be included with respect
to pensions in the proposed executive compensation actually paid measure. The degree
of difference between these two computations will generally increase with an executive’s
total number of years of credited service (and thus the extent of benefits already
accumulated) under the pension plan.

76

C.

Discussion of Economic Effects

Compensating executive officers with pay that varies with registrant performance
is widely considered to be a tool that can be used to encourage executive officers, through
the financial incentives provided by such compensation plans, to exert effort and make
decisions that create value. However, there are also downsides of such compensation
plans. For example, some such plans may cause executives to focus overly on short-term
performance to the detriment of long-term performance, or may make some executives
less likely to take on risky but (from a typical shareholder’s perspective) valuable
investments if they are unwilling to take the chance that the investment could fail and
result in lower compensation than would result from less risky projects.
An optimal compensation policy is generally considered to be one that maximizes
shareholder value in the long term by balancing the need to provide executives with the
incentive to perform well against the monetary costs and potential detrimental effects of
the compensation policy. What constitutes an optimal compensation policy, including
which performance metrics should be considered and how much compensation should
vary with these metrics, is difficult to ascertain and will vary with a registrant’s
individual circumstances. Academic research has been mixed as to whether prevailing
compensation structures are optimal, are too closely linked to company performance, or
should be more sensitive to performance. 135 Thus, it is unclear whether changes that
would more closely link executive pay with registrant performance than current
135

See, e.g., Alex Edmans and Xavier Gabaix, Is CEO Pay Really Inefficient? A Survey of New
Optimal Contracting Theories. EUR. FIN. MGMT, Vol. 15, No. 3, (June 2009), at 486-496,
Michael Jensen and Kevin Murphy, Performance Pay and Top-Management Incentives. 98 J. POL.
ECON., No. 2, 225 (Apr. 1990), and Lucian Bebchuk and Jesse Fried, PAY WITHOUT
PERFORMANCE: THE UNFULFILLED PROMISE OF EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION, Harvard University
Press, Oct. 2006.

77

compensation structures would have a positive, negative, or no impact on firm value
creation.
In addition to uncertainties about the optimality of pay-versus-performance
alignment, there are challenges in measuring such alignment. For example, the available
performance statistics may not adequately measure a given executive’s contribution to a
registrant’s performance, such as when registrant performance is strongly related to
market moves, sector opportunities, commodity prices, or other factors unrelated to
managerial effort or skill. 136 Even if the performance measure were not subject to such
concerns, it could be difficult to match performance with associated compensation
because of timing differences. For example, an executive may be rewarded with extra
compensation for an accomplishment in the year it is made, even though expected profits
related to this performance (such as an investment or restructuring decision) might not
follow until several years later. Similarly, a registrant’s stock price may rise at the
announcement of a new PEO who is expected to add significant value to the firm, even
though he or she may not commence employment and begin receiving compensation until
the following year. Pay-versus-performance alignment can also be difficult to evaluate
without also considering holdings of vested equity which link an executive’s wealth to
the performance of the company even if they were not obtained as compensation or, if

136

See, e.g., Marianne Bertrand and Sendhil Mullainathan, Are CEOS Rewarded for Luck? The Ones
without Principals Are, 116 Q. J. OF ECON., No. 3, 901(2001). Other situations in which registrant
performance statistics may differ from an executive’s performance include cases in which the
statistics measure managerial effort but not of the particular manager in question (which may be
particularly likely in the case of NEOs other than the PEO) and situations in which other factors
such as registrant size affect the translation of a given level of managerial effort into the measured
statistics.

78

they were provided as compensation, even after they have been “actually paid.” 137 Such
issues may lead to concerns with any standardized approach to evaluating pay-versusperformance alignment.
Despite these challenges, shareholders may evaluate executive compensation
packages and consider the optimality of pay-versus-performance alignment when making
voting decisions relating to the compensation of the NEOs and the election of directors,
as well as when making investment decisions. 138 As discussed above, shareholders
currently have access to detailed information disclosed by registrants with respect to
executive compensation and financial performance. For example, substantial detail on
compensation packages is currently required in proxy statements where action is to be
taken with regard to the election of directors, including the specific terms of
performance-related awards as well as information in the CD&A (for affected registrants
other than smaller reporting companies) regarding how the compensation policy relates
pay to performance, to the extent it is considered material. However, data from the
required, standardized tables and accompanying information may require further
computation and analysis before shareholders can evaluate actual historical pay-versusperformance alignment. Also, CD&A disclosures that may, on a voluntary basis, provide
137

138

See, e.g., Kevin J. Murphy, Executive Compensation: Where We Are, and How We Got There,
August 12, 2012, forthcoming in George Constantinides, Milton Harris, and René Stulz (eds.),
HANDBOOK ECON. FIN., at 24-25, available at SSRN: http://ssrn.com/abstract=2041679 (stating
that incentive compensation is negatively correlated with manager’s vested equity interests,
reflecting the redundancy of granting further equity awards to executives whose wealth is already
substantially tied to the company’s equity).
See, e.g., 2015 Investor Survey: Deconstructing Proxy Statements – What Matters to Investors,
February 2015, Stanford University, RR Donnelley, and Equilar, February 2015, available at
http://www.sec.gov/comments/4-681/4681-3.pdf (providing survey evidence that 64% of
institutional investors surveyed indicated that their firms used pay-for-performance alignment
information from proxy statements to make voting decisions; 34% of those surveyed indicated that
this information was used to make investment decisions).

79

more direct measures of the historical pay-versus-performance relationship lack
standardization and comparability, as discussed above. In this vein, the introduction of
quantitative analyses of pay-versus-performance alignment by the major proxy advisory
firms in recent years may be a sign of shareholder demand for additional computations
regarding this relationship, beyond existing disclosures. 139
The proposed amendments mainly require registrants to repackage in one location
information that is disclosed in various other locations under existing rules. The
anticipated benefits and costs of the proposed amendments are therefore driven by the
impact that this additional format for presenting information may have on shareholders.
The economic benefits and costs of the proposed amendments, including impacts on
efficiency, competition and capital formation, are discussed below. We also discuss the
relative benefits and costs of significant, reasonable implementation alternatives to the
amendments as proposed.
1.

Benefits

As discussed above, for the most part, the proposed amendments require a
different presentation of certain existing information rather than the disclosure of new
information. The primary benefits of the proposed amendments relative to the baseline
will therefore depend on the extent to which the computations provided or the format
used for the proposed disclosure is useful to shareholders.
Shareholders may benefit from the proposed amendments to the extent that the
new presentation of data required by these amendments lowers their burden of analysis in

139

See, e.g., supra note 122.

80

evaluating the executive compensation policies of the affected registrants. Shareholders
may evaluate executive compensation when making decisions relating to the say-on-pay
vote and other votes relating to the compensation of the NEOs and the election of
directors, as well as when making investment decisions. As part of this process,
shareholders likely spend time and other resources to analyze current disclosures,
including making computations that enable them to understand how compensation is
related to performance. Existing disclosures regarding compensation are quite detailed,
often lengthy, and, in some portions, subject to considerable variation. If the repackaging
of some of this information into the required pay-versus-performance disclosure allows
shareholders to more quickly or easily process the information accurately, the proposed
amendments may generate efficiencies by preventing duplicative analytical effort by
shareholders. Also, requiring that the disclosure be provided in a tagged data format may
facilitate the extraction and analysis of any or all of this information across a large
number of registrants or, eventually, across a large number of years. If the proposed
disclosure is of interest to shareholders, it may be particularly beneficial to those
shareholders who do not have access to third-party analyses, have fewer analytical
resources, or are less adept at interpreting current disclosures on their own. If the
disclosure helps shareholders process and understand compensation data faster, this
information may also be more quickly incorporated in market prices, marginally
increasing the informational efficiency of markets.
The size of this potential benefit depends on the extent to which the proposed
disclosure approximates or contributes to any of the calculations and analyses that
sophisticated shareholders would choose to perform on their own in order to process the

81

existing disclosures, which is difficult to ascertain. The proposed requirement that
registrants use standardized measures of compensation and performance would likely
increase the comparability of disclosures specifically addressing the relationship of pay
and performance relative to the broad variability under the baseline in the narrative
discussion that may be provided in the CD&A and in voluntary pay-versus-performance
disclosures.
To the extent that shareholders are interested in the prescribed measures, this
enhanced comparability would likely enable more efficient processing of the information.
In particular, standardization should reduce the time that shareholders would spend to
learn what different measures represent: for example, once they understand what
executive compensation actually paid reflects, they can understand what that measure
means in other pay-versus-performance disclosures without having to examine each
registrant’s own definition. In addition, prescribing these measures reduces the ability of
registrants to only disclose measures of pay and performance that lead to more favorable
pay-versus-performance disclosures, which may allow shareholders to spend less time
interpreting the choice of measures in the disclosure. Comparability may also allow
shareholders to more easily evaluate a pay-versus-performance disclosure in the context
of the pay-versus-performance disclosure of other registrants. Requiring disclosure of the
annual values of the prescribed measures in a table should enhance such comparability of
the disclosure across registrants by facilitating comparisons of the underlying content of
the disclosures even when the format in which the relationship between the prescribed
pay and performance measures is presented differs across registrants.

82

As noted above, these benefits of standardization would apply only to the extent
that shareholders find the prescribed measures to be useful. Whether or not shareholders
will be interested in the prescribed measures is unclear. For example, as discussed above,
there are challenges associated with measuring an executive’s contribution to registrant
performance that may lead to concerns with any performance measure. However, TSR
reflects information from a variety of underlying performance metrics, including market
expectations of the future impact of current executive actions, and may thus be a useful
metric in this context. While a registrant’s own TSR as well as relative performance
information will generally be available in Item 201(e) disclosures in annual reports for
registrants other than smaller reporting companies, including peer performance in the
pay-versus-performance disclosure may be useful to shareholders as it would enable them
to evaluate the performance of a registrant relative to peers without requiring
shareholders to refer to other disclosure documents.
Similarly, while the prescribed compensation measure would provide little
incremental information beyond existing disclosures, the measure would reflect new
required computations based on this existing data that may be particularly relevant in the
context of evaluating the relationship of pay-versus-performance. These computations,
and the tagging of the disclosure, may make information of interest to shareholders more
readily available than it is under the baseline. For example, shareholders may be
interested in the vesting-date valuations of options because academic studies indicate that
changes in the value of equity awards after the grant date are a primary channel though

83

which pay is linked to registrant performance. 140 For this reason, we believe that
shareholders may be particularly interested in such post-grant changes in the value of
equity awards when evaluating the relationship of pay-versus-performance. Shareholders
may also be interested in the actuarial present value of benefits attributable to services
rendered during a given year because these amounts may be more comparable to
registrant contributions to defined contribution plans than the total change in actuarial
pension value. The proposed adjustment with respect to pension plans is also expected to
reduce the volatility in measured pension compensation caused by changes in interest
rates and other actuarial assumptions, and should thus make it easier to evaluate the
relationship of pay-versus-performance. Although shareholders could estimate the
amounts proposed to be included in executive compensation actually paid with respect to
equity awards and pension plans using existing disclosures, they may benefit from these
computations becoming readily available in the prescribed compensation measure.
In addition, some shareholders may be interested in computing slightly different
measures or using parts of the required computations for other purposes, in which case
they are likely to benefit from the proposed footnote disclosure of the adjustments made
to compute executive compensation actually paid and the disclosure of vesting date
valuation assumptions, if materially different from the grant date assumptions. Also, as
discussed above, requiring that the disclosure be provided in tagged data format may
benefit shareholders interested in extracting and analyzing some or all of the data in the
disclosure across a large number of filings.
140

See, e.g., Kevin J. Murphy, Executive Compensation: Where We Are, and How We Got There,
(stating that studies show that virtually all of the sensitivity of pay to corporate performance for
the typical CEO is attributable to the direct link between stock price performance and the CEO’s
portfolio of stock and options).

84

On the other hand, if the prescribed measure of executive compensation actually
paid is significantly different from measures that shareholders would choose to construct
on their own in order to evaluate compensation alignment, benefits may be limited and
some shareholders may be confused by the disclosures, as discussed in more detail
below. For example, the potential benefit of more efficient data processing is likely to be
tempered by the fact that the proposed measure of executive compensation actually paid
may be subject to substantial potential volatility due to its sensitivity to equity award
vesting schedules, which may reduce the meaningfulness of relating the variation in the
measure over time to stock price performance. Also, while tabular disclosure of the
underlying data will provide some degree of comparability, benefits to shareholders may
be either mitigated or enhanced by the proposed latitude in format for presenting the
relationship between the prescribed pay and performance measures. The impact of this
flexibility depends on whether the usefulness of more customized formats outweighs any
added complexity in interpreting the disclosure and the reduction in comparability across
registrants.
The proposed amendments could also have indirect benefits if the required
disclosures lead to more optimal compensation policies, perhaps as a result of increased
attention on the level or structure of NEO compensation and/or registrant performance.
Specifically, if, by virtue of the disclosure, NEOs become less likely to demand, and/or
boards become less likely to approve, a compensation level or structure that is not
optimal (in that, as discussed above, it does not maximize long-term shareholder

85

value), 141 then benefits will arise to shareholders and registrants. The resulting pay
packages may represent either a benefit or a cost to the NEOs depending on whether or
not the more optimal compensation structure, including the level of compensation as well
as the risk exposure, is preferred by the executives.
The likelihood of such indirect effects is difficult to estimate because the ideal
pay-versus-performance analysis for shareholders, as well as the optimal pay structure, is
uncertain and may vary by company, and because reactions to the repackaging of
information are difficult to predict. As discussed above, the proposed disclosure is
intended to facilitate shareholders’ consideration of the alignment between pay and
performance when making related voting decisions. However, because the proposal does
not require the disclosure of significant new information, and given high levels of
existing attention to pay practices, we believe that it is unlikely that the proposed
amendments would play a significant role in encouraging more optimal pay packages.
We therefore believe that the proposed amendments are likely to have no material
beneficial effects on competition or capital formation.
We believe that the only incremental information that the required disclosures
under the proposed amendments would provide relative to existing public information is
related to the calculation of option values as of the vesting date instead of the grant date.
Registrants are also not currently required to disclose the actuarial present value of
benefits attributable to services rendered during the applicable year, but they must
disclose the pension plan terms and assumptions that could be used to compute this value.

141

It is important to note that, as mentioned above, a closer link between executive pay and stock
performance than the current status of compensation could be either beneficial or detrimental to
firm value creation.

86

In contrast, while the valuation of options also involves certain assumptions, registrants
are not currently required to disclose vesting-date valuation assumptions for option
grants.
Using existing disclosures, shareholders can themselves make estimates of the
vesting-date values based on the disclosed option terms, by using publicly available data
to make reasonable valuation assumptions.142 A vesting-date valuation provided directly
by the registrant would reflect its discretion in choosing a valuation methodology and
estimating the inputs required, particularly the expected option life and the expected
volatility of the stock. 143 The grant-date valuations provided by registrants already
demonstrate, to some extent, how the registrants choose to apply their discretion in the
valuation process. 144 It is unclear to what extent shareholders would find the additional
disclosure of a vesting-date valuation, which would similarly reflect registrant discretion,
to provide meaningful new information. Also, shareholders may be concerned that such
discretion could be used to understate compensation actually paid, affecting the reliability
of registrant valuations. We therefore believe that the potential benefits of the proposed
142

Such data might include financial statement footnote disclosures relating to significant
assumptions made by the registrant in arriving at disclosed grant-date valuations and information
regarding the past exercise behavior at the registrant or a broader group of firms, as well as market
information on bond and dividend yields and stock price volatilities.

143

While FASB ASC Topic 718 requires that the assumptions used shall not represent the biases of a
particular party, there will generally be a range of assumptions that could be considered to be
reasonable, and so the choice of particular assumptions will reflect registrant discretion.

144

An academic study of executive compensation among firms in the S&P 1500 from 1996 to 2001
found that the grant-date valuations of option awards by these registrants were, on average,
understated. However, because this paper uses data from 1996 to 2001, it might not accurately
reflect current practices. See David Aboody, Mary E. Barth and Ron Kasznik, Do Firms
Understate Stock-Based Compensation Expense Disclosed under SFAS 123? 11 REV. OF ACC.
STUD., No. 4, 429 (2006). Notably, when evaluating executive compensation, two major proxy
advisory firms each use their own, standardized set of methodologies and assumptions to value
option grants rather than relying on each registrant’s estimate of grant-date value. See, e.g.,
http://www.issgovernance.com/policy/ExecutiveCompensationFAQ, and
http://www.glasslewis.com/issuer/stock-option-model-details.

87

amendments derive primarily from the manner in which the information is presented
rather than the disclosure of any significant new information.
2.

Costs

We believe that the costs to registrants of complying with the proposed
amendments likely would be relatively low, given that the required disclosures do not
require the collection of any significant new information relative to the baseline and the
required additional computations are straightforward. The valuation of options as of a
different date and the required computations with respect to pension plans can be
accomplished by entering new inputs into the existing valuation models used to calculate
currently disclosed values. These costs will also be limited by phasing in the time
periods for the disclosure for both new and existing registrants, thereby reducing the
computations required when first producing the disclosure, and phasing in the tagging
requirement for smaller reporting companies. The primary costs of complying with the
proposed amendments include the time and expense to make the required computations,
to design and apply a format for the disclosure, to apply XBRL data tagging, and to
ensure appropriate review, such as by management, in-house counsel, outside counsel
and members of the board of directors. As discussed above, registrants would be
required to file the pay-versus-performance disclosure in certain proxy or information
statements. While much of the disclosure would be based on information that is
otherwise disclosed, the new computations and new presentation of this underlying
information, as well as the inclusion of existing measures -- TSR and peer group TSR -that are otherwise “furnished” but not “filed,” may create an incremental risk of litigation

88

under Section 18 of the Exchange Act. However, we note that Section 18 does not create
strict liability for “filed” information. 145
The compliance costs are likely to vary somewhat among registrants depending
on the complexity of their compensation structures. For example, the computation of
executive compensation actually paid from total compensation reported in the Summary
Compensation Table involves adjustments to the treatment of equity awards and pension
benefits. As shown in the baseline section above, while a relatively higher proportion of
large companies have pension plans and grant stock and option awards to executives, a
significant fraction of mid-sized and smaller companies feature these components in their
compensation plans as well. Thus, while the compliance costs are likely to be low, these
costs may be slightly more burdensome for those affected registrants which have
complex compensation packages and are small enough that the costs of the disclosure are
relatively more consequential in comparison to their size. Smaller reporting companies
would be subject to scaled requirements consistent with their existing disclosure
requirements, including fewer years of disclosure, no requirement to report peer group
performance, and the exclusion of items related to pension plans in computing executive
compensation actually paid. Smaller reporting companies are not currently required to
comply with Item 201(e), so they may face a small incremental burden of computing
their own TSR for the purpose of this disclosure as compared to other affected
registrants.

145

See Exchange Act Section 18 [15 U.S.C. 78r]. A plaintiff asserting a claim under Section 18
would need to meet the elements of the statute to establish a claim, including purchasing or selling a
security in reliance on the misstatement, and damages caused by that reliance.

89

Based on analysis for purposes of the Paperwork Reduction Act (“PRA”), as
discussed in Section V of this release, we estimate that the total incremental burden on all
registrants of the proposed amendments would be, annually, 67,500 hours for internal
company time, and $9,000,000 for the services of outside professionals. Certain
registrants – such as those that have infrequent equity grant vesting dates or other
compensation structures that result in a more volatile measure of executive compensation
actually paid – may be more likely to voluntarily supplement the disclosure with
additional measures, explanations, or analyses in order to explain the patterns in the
required disclosure, and may thus face higher overall costs. However, we do not believe
that any of the variation in the compliance burden will be large enough to have a material
detrimental effect on competition or capital formation.
Shareholders may bear additional information processing costs as a consequence
of the proposed amendments if they increase the length and complexity of existing
disclosures without significantly adding to the ease of interpretation. The likelihood and
extent of such costs may be a function of the potential confusion resulting from the
proposed disclosure, as discussed in more detail below, and the related increase in
supplementary disclosures that may result, as well as the complexity of and variation in
presentation formats, as discussed above. If the proposed disclosure were to confuse
rather than help shareholders and therefore complicate the task of understanding
executive pay policies, it may marginally decrease the informational efficiency of
markets.
The proposed amendments may confuse shareholders about the optimality of pay
practices if it brings attention to a particular relationship that may not be meaningful in

90

the context of a given registrant. As discussed above, there are challenges in measuring
pay-versus-performance alignment which are likely to impact any standardized approach
to presenting this relationship. Including peer group performance in the disclosure may
help shareholders to identify when registrant performance could be driven by market
moves, sector opportunities, commodity prices, or other factors unrelated to managerial
effort or skill. However, the proposed disclosure may be less meaningful if the disclosed
performance, even relative to peers, is different from the contribution of the given NEO
to performance, or if the disclosed relationship between compensation and performance
does not (because of timing considerations or vested equity holdings) accurately capture
the economic relationship between the company’s performance and the financial rewards
to the NEO.
In addition to the general concerns raised above, the proposed definition of
executive compensation actually paid may be particularly subject to volatility based on
the vesting pattern of equity awards, because the measure includes in the year of vesting
the original grant-date value and all gains (or losses) related to returns in all years since
the grant was made. In particular, the proposed measure is likely to increase sharply in
any year during which significant equity awards vest, and gains or losses on equity
awards are likely to be reflected in different years than the stock performance that
generated them. Such volatility could make it difficult to understand the relationship, or
lead to incorrect inferences about the relationship, between pay and performance.
The treatment of equity awards may also reduce the comparability of the
compensation measure across registrants. The exclusion of grant date values in the year
of grant may make it difficult to compare the total value of compensation packages. For

91

example, for a given fiscal year, if one PEO is paid $1 million in cash and another PEO is
paid $1 million in restricted stock that vests after one year, the executive compensation
actually paid for the year will be $1 million in the first case and zero in the second case.
This measure would be accompanied in the proposed tabular disclosure by the Summary
Compensation Table measure of total compensation, which reflects the grant date values
of equity awards, and may thus contribute to a more complete view of a compensation
package. However, the reduced comparability resulting from the exclusion of the grant
date values of equity awards from the proposed measure may still complicate the task of
interpreting the disclosure.
The sensitivity of the proposed measure of executive compensation actually paid
to vesting schedules may also reduce comparability. For example, consider two NEOs
who are granted large, one-time awards of restricted stock that vest in full after one year,
but with vesting dates that are one day apart – on the last day of a fiscal year versus the
first day of the next fiscal year. The pattern in compensation actually paid may look very
different for these two executives because the award of stock will be reflected in different
years.
The potential for confusion is particularly of concern given that the proposed
disclosure may be of most interest to less sophisticated shareholders, who may be less
likely to have access to third-party pay-versus-performance analyses or may be less adept
at conducting their own such analyses. The possibility of confusion is mitigated by
allowing registrants to provide supplemental measures of pay and performance in the
proposed disclosure, as well as the ability of registrants to provide further explanatory
disclosures (such as in the CD&A for affected registrants other than smaller reporting

92

companies). However, such clarifying disclosures may be more likely to be provided
when the proposed disclosure is perceived by the registrant to incorrectly indicate the
misalignment of pay and performance than when the proposed disclosure is perceived to
incorrectly indicate strong alignment.
The proposed amendments could also lead to indirect costs if the required
disclosures lead to changes in compensation packages that are not beneficial. Registrants
may make changes to avoid disclosure that they perceived to correctly or, because of the
limitations of the standardized approach, incorrectly indicate the misalignment of payversus-performance. For example, by virtue of the disclosure, boards may become more
likely to approve compensation structures that more strongly link pay to stock price
performance, even in situations in which this would not be optimal. 146 More subtle
changes in compensation structures may also be made to improve the appearance of payversus-performance alignment. For example, registrants may choose to apply shorter or
more graduated equity award vesting schedules to generate a less volatile measure of
executive compensation actually paid. However, such changes in the design of
compensation packages could harm shareholder value creation by, for example, placing
more than the optimal weight on short-term performance. 147 Thus, if such changes are
indirectly encouraged by the proposed amendments, they may entail costs to registrants
and their shareholders. The resulting pay packages may represent either a benefit or a
cost to the NEOs depending on whether or not the less optimal compensation structure,
146

See supra notes 135 and 136 regarding academic studies that find that a stronger link between pay
and stock price performance may not be optimal.

147

See, e.g., Alex Edmans, Vivian Fang and Katharina Lewellen, Equity Vesting and Managerial
Myopia, NBER Working Paper No. 19407, (Sept. 2013), available at
http://www.nber.org/papers/w19407.

93

including the level of compensation as well as the risk exposure, is preferred by the
executives.
As in the case of the potential benefits outlined above, many of these costs are
difficult to quantify because the ideal pay-versus-performance analysis for shareholders,
as well as the optimal pay structure, is uncertain and may vary by company and because
reactions to the repackaging of information are difficult to predict. Still, because the
proposal does not require the disclosure of significant new information, and given high
levels of existing attention to pay practices, we believe that it is unlikely that the
proposed amendments would play a significant role in encouraging poor pay practices.
We therefore believe that the proposed amendments likely would have no material
detrimental effects on competition or capital formation.
3.

Implementation Alternatives

In this section, we present significant implementation alternatives that have been
considered and a discussion of their benefits and costs relative to the amendments as
proposed.
a. Registrants and Filings Subject to the Disclosure
An alternative to the amendments as proposed would be to require that payversus-performance disclosure would accompany any Item 402 disclosure, including in
Form 10-K or Form S-1. Such an approach would make pay-versus-performance
disclosures more consistently available for Section 12(g) registrants subject to the
amendments and broaden the disclosure requirement to include Section 15(d) registrants
other than emerging growth companies. As discussed above, we believe that the
proposed disclosure would be most useful to shareholders when they are deciding

94

whether to approve the compensation of the NEOs through the say-on-pay vote, voting
on the election of directors or acting on a compensation plan. The proposed approach
would require pay-versus-performance disclosure in proxy statements in each of these
cases. Nonetheless, shareholders making voting decisions at a particular registrant may
benefit from broader and more consistent availability of pay-versus-performance
disclosures on an annual basis at other registrants. Specifically, these disclosures may
allow shareholders to more easily compare pay practices across registrants when deciding
how to vote at a particular registrant, particularly, for example, in the case of smaller
companies whose peers may be more likely to be Section 12(g) or Section 15(d)
registrants. Such disclosures may also be of use to some shareholders in making
investment decisions, irrespective of any matters that are up for a vote.
However, registrants with reporting obligations only under Section 12(g) or
Section 15(d) do not have securities that are registered on national securities exchanges,
so the markets for their shares are likely to be comparatively less liquid. Estimates of
share values and therefore of total shareholder return for such registrants may be less
precise and less readily available, potentially making pay-versus-performance
comparisons based on this metric less meaningful across such registrants. Also, as in the
case of smaller reporting companies, Section 15(d) registrants are not subject to Item
201(e) requirements for stock price performance disclosure. Similarly, Section 12(g)
registrants may not be required to disclose Item 201(e) information in some or all years,
so Section 15(d) registrants and some Section 12(g) registrants would bear an additional
burden of calculating their own TSR and, except in the case of smaller reporting
companies, the TSR of a peer group for this purpose.

95

An alternative that would narrow the applicability of the disclosure would be to
exempt smaller reporting companies from the proposed disclosure requirement.
Exempting smaller reporting companies generally would be consistent with the overall
scaled disclosure requirements that apply to smaller reporting companies. While the
proposal would subject smaller reporting companies to scaled requirements in order to
limit the incremental burdens such companies may face relative to other registrants, some
such burdens remain. For example, smaller reporting companies are currently not
required to disclose their TSR in annual reports, so they would face a higher burden than
other registrants to include this measure in the pay-versus-performance disclosure. We
note, also, that requiring only a scaled version of the pay-versus-performance disclosure
for smaller reporting companies may limit the benefits to shareholders by reducing the
content and comparability of the disclosures. Also, in the absence of CD&A disclosure,
shareholders would have less information with which to interpret pay-versusperformance disclosures from these registrants.
On the other hand, it is possible that some shareholders may benefit from the
proposed pay-versus-performance disclosure for these registrants, particularly because
these registrants currently provide less extensive disclosure about compensation and the
data that they do disclose is unlikely to be available in aggregate form from data vendors
that collect such data from the proxy statements of larger companies. For example,
shareholders who believe that the long-term performance of younger, high growth
companies may be particularly sensitive to the design of compensation structures may
benefit from smaller reporting company pay-versus-performance disclosures, even if
these disclosures are not directly comparable with the disclosures of other affected

96

registrants. Shareholders that are interested in comparing executive compensation across
smaller reporting companies would benefit from this data being tagged, particularly
because of the lack of commercial databases collecting executive compensation
information for such registrants. The proposal would permit smaller reporting companies
to present fewer years of information in the disclosure, to not include peer group
performance, and to exclude items related to pension plans in computing executive
compensation actually paid. While the scaled requirements for smaller reporting
companies may limit the potential benefits to shareholders interested in executive
compensation at such registrants, these scaled requirements should substantially limit the
incremental burdens faced by smaller reporting companies in providing pay-versusperformance disclosure.
b. Disclosure Requirements
We have considered several reasonable alternatives to the proposed disclosure
requirements.
Some commenters recommended a more principles-based approach that would
permit registrants to determine which measures of pay and performance to disclose and
how to disclose the relationship between these measures based on what they deem to be
appropriate for their individual situations. 148 Such an approach could have the potential
to allow shareholders to more directly observe how management views the alignment of
pay and performance at a given registrant, and might reduce reporting costs because
registrants need only report what they believe to be appropriate given their unique
circumstances. To the extent that the prescribed measures may be less meaningful at
148

See letters from SCSGP, ABA, CEC I, ClearBridge, Protective Life, and Davis Polk.

97

particular registrants, a principles-based approach could reduce shareholder confusion in
understanding the relationship between pay and performance at a particular registrant. A
principles-based approach would also reduce the risk that the disclosure requirements
could lead registrants to change their compensation structures in ways that are less than
optimal for the sake of achieving what they perceive to be more favorable pay-versusperformance disclosure. However, such an approach may reduce comparability of the
disclosure across registrants and could increase shareholder confusion because the choice
of pay and performance measures, and the disclosure horizon, may vary significantly.
Also, a principles-based approach may allow registrants to selectively choose the
measures or horizon that result in the most favorable disclosure. The proposed approach
of specifying some uniform requirements for the disclosure and permitting supplemental
disclosure should promote comparability while preserving flexibility to tailor the
disclosure to a registrant’s individual situation.
In particular, the proposed disclosure promotes a level of comparability by
requiring standardized measures of compensation and performance that are consistent
across registrants. Similarly, the proposed requirement that the disclosure cover, at
minimum, a five-year (three-year for smaller reporting companies) time period after the
initial phase-in should also increase the comparability and usefulness of the disclosure
compared with the alternative of allowing the registrant to potentially choose a shorter
time period for disclosure. Registrants will be permitted to present supplemental
measures of compensation and performance and additional years of data in the payversus-performance disclosure, will have flexibility as to the format in which to present
the relationship between pay and performance, and will continue to have significant

98

latitude in presenting additional compensation analyses (such as in the CD&A, for
affected registrants other than smaller reporting companies), all of which should help
registrants to clarify their unique circumstances and considerations in evaluating
compensation.
Conversely, we also have considered increasing the comparability of pay-versusperformance disclosures by prescribing a uniform format or some minimum requirements
for the presentation format of the relationship. Under the proposal, registrants may apply
a wide range of formats when presenting the relationship between the measures that
might not be directly comparable, particularly as some registrants may present the
relationship between the prescribed measures using percentage changes or ratios while
others may present the levels of these measures. However, the tabular disclosure of the
annual values of executive compensation actually paid and registrant and peer group
performance should allow shareholders to compare the content of the disclosures across
registrants using different formats. Still, shareholders’ ability to easily compare the
disclosure across registrants may be further increased by requiring a uniform format for
presenting the relationship, such as a standardized graphical presentation, or some
minimum standards for the presentation format, such as a requirement that the disclosure
be in the form of a graph. The cost of these more prescriptive approaches would be the
restrictions on the ability of registrants to tailor the format of the required disclosures to
best reflect their individual circumstances, which may vary significantly.
A further alternative would be to require registrants to provide an analysis of the
presented information in narrative accompanying the factual disclosure. For example,
registrants could be required to explain which compensation decisions or which elements

99

of compensation, if any, were most responsible for the patterns in the presented
relationship between executive compensation actually paid and total shareholder return.
Such supplementary analysis may help shareholders to interpret the disclosures,
particularly in cases where, as discussed above, the presented relationship may be
distorted by issues such as timing mismatches and factors unrelated to managerial
performance that may affect stock prices. The proposed amendments permit such
explanations to be provided on a voluntary basis but, as discussed above, such clarifying
disclosures may be more likely to be provided when the proposed disclosure is perceived
by the registrant to incorrectly indicate the misalignment of pay and performance than
when the proposed disclosure is perceived to incorrectly indicate strong alignment.
However, making the provision of such narrative disclosure mandatory may increase the
compliance burden and might suggest that the registrant considered, or should consider,
the pay-versus-performance relationship in its compensation decisions.
We have also considered increasing or decreasing the minimum information
required to be included in the disclosures. With respect to increasing the minimum
information, we considered requiring the inclusion of additional measures of pay or
performance or requiring that the disclosure cover a longer time period. Shareholders
may find expanded disclosures to be beneficial. For example, a longer time period (e.g.,
the entire service period of the executive) 149 for the disclosure may provide shareholders
with additional context with which to evaluate the disclosure. In particular, requiring a
longer horizon may help shareholders to understand timing mismatches that the
disclosures may be subject to, as discussed above, by increasing the likelihood that the
149

See letter from CII.

100

disclosures include pay (or performance) that may appear in a different time period than
the corresponding performance (or pay). Mandating the inclusion of additional measures
of pay and performance (such as relative pay measures and accounting measures of
performance) may increase the usefulness of the disclosure in some cases by
summarizing more information that could be relevant in evaluating pay versus
performance alignment. Also, requiring more years of data or more prescribed measures
may increase the comparability of the disclosures if, under the proposed requirements,
some but not all registrants choose to provide such additional information.
However, such extended requirements would impose a higher compliance burden
while potentially requiring registrants to include information that they do not believe to
be relevant to their circumstances, and/or which shareholders may not find to be relevant.
Also, requiring additional measures may also make the disclosure of the relationship
between pay and performance more difficult to process quickly, while not adding to the
total amount of underlying information available to shareholders from public disclosures.
With respect to decreasing the minimum required information, we also considered
reducing the required disclosure period to three years, excluding Summary Compensation
Table total compensation from the required tabular disclosure, or not requiring TSR for a
peer group. On the one hand, these alternatives could reduce the compliance burden on
registrants by limiting the total amount of information that would need to be included in
pay-versus-performance disclosures, while continuing to provide flexibility to registrants
to include additional information if they find it to be appropriate. On the other hand,
decreasing the minimum required information could reduce the benefits to shareholders
discussed above and may not substantially reduce compliance costs given that, for

101

example, the excluded information would generally still be required to be disclosed in
other years, other parts of the proxy or information statement, or other filings. Overall,
we believe that the proposed minimum required information appropriately balances a
level of comparability and usefulness against the costs of complying with the
requirements of pay-versus-performance disclosure.
One commenter 150 recommended that registrants subject to the amendments be
required to present relative pay compared to relative performance, each measured with
respect to a group of peer companies. While performance information for a peer group
would be required to be included under the proposal, also incorporating pay information
for a peer group in order to produce relative pay-versus-performance disclosures may be
useful to shareholders as it would provide further context in which to evaluate the payversus-performance alignment of a registrant. Using a relative approach would also
permit the relationship of pay and performance to be presented across registrants using,
for example, an aggregate three-year compensation measure, rather than the relationship
being presented across time for an individual registrant using annual measures. 151 The
use of aggregate measures, recommended by several commenters, may reduce the
potential timing mismatches and volatility in executive compensation actually paid. 152
However, requiring further comparisons to a peer group may reduce the comparability of
150

See letters from SVA.

151

Aggregating compensation over a three-year period would result in a single number representing
executive compensation actually paid for this full period. Such aggregation would thus make it
impossible to demonstrate the relationship between pay and performance over time, and so this
relationship could only be demonstrated across another dimension, such as across peers. The
proposed amendment requires the use of an annual measure so that registrants can present the
relationship of pay and performance over time at the particular registrant.

152

See letters from ClearBridge, Pay Governance, and SVA.

102

disclosures because of registrant discretion in selecting the peer group or variation in the
availability of a closely comparable peer group. There are also practical implementation
considerations, as peer compensation for the last fiscal year is not likely to be available at
the time a registrant is compiling the disclosure. Further, even if these practical
considerations could be mitigated (e.g., by permitting peer information to be excluded
when unavailable), requiring relative pay-versus-performance would most likely impose
higher compliance costs.
Requiring peer performance but not peer compensation information as in the
proposal should help shareholders to understand when registrant performance could be
driven by market moves, sector opportunities, commodity prices, or other factors
unrelated to managerial effort or skill. Under the proposed amendments, registrants that
prefer to include information about peer pay-versus-performance will be permitted to
present relative measures of pay and alternative measures of relative performance as
additional measures in the pay-versus-performance disclosure and will continue to have
the ability to present relative compensation analyses in the CD&A. Because registrants
might only choose to present this information when they perceive the comparison to
peers to appear favorable, allowing such voluntary disclosure would not provide the full
benefits of mandating relative pay-versus-performance disclosure. However,
shareholders could also construct relative pay-versus-performance analyses on their own
by comparing the separate pay-versus-performance disclosures of each of a registrant’s
peers, based on the peer group reported by a registrant under Item 201(e) or in the
CD&A.

103

Another commenter recommended that the pay-versus-performance disclosure be
limited to the PEO’s compensation. 153 This alternative may focus the disclosure on the
information that is likely to be of most interest to shareholders. Also, as discussed above,
the contribution of NEOs other than the PEO to firm performance is less likely to be
adequately measured by overall registrant performance statistics such as the TSR. This
alternative would marginally reduce compliance costs as compared to requiring
disclosures regarding the average compensation of the other NEOs as proposed.
However, limiting the disclosure to the PEO may also reduce the benefits to shareholders,
to the extent they would use the proposed disclosures to evaluate the compensation of the
other NEOs.
We could require pay-versus-performance disclosure for each individual NEO,
rather than or in addition to the average of the other NEOs as a group. Disclosure with
respect to the individual NEOs could be required only in the required tabular disclosure
of the prescribed measures or in both the disclosure of these measures and in the
disclosure of the relationship between the measures. Such approaches would allow
shareholders to more directly compare pay-versus-performance for NEOs with the same
or similar titles across different registrants. Also, some shareholders may be interested in
the pay-versus-performance alignment of particular NEOs other than the PEO and would
thus benefit from such individual disclosures. Since the computations required to
produce individual disclosures would already be made in order to produce disclosure on
an average basis for all of the NEOs, the incremental burden of producing such individual
disclosures may be low.
153

See letter from Meridian.

104

However, while some shareholders may be interested in such disclosure,
variability in the composition and number of other NEOs over the horizon of the
disclosure may complicate the interpretation of the relationship between pay and
performance over the years for which disclosure is required. The roles of individual
NEOs might not be comparable, and their titles might not be consistent, across
registrants, limiting the benefits to shareholders interested in comparing pay alignment
for particular roles across registrants. Also, firm-level performance measures may be less
likely to adequately measure an NEO’s contribution to a registrant’s performance than
that of the PEO, given the more focused roles (such as division head or chief technology
officer, among many other possibilities) of individual NEOs, so individual disclosures for
the NEOs could be of limited benefit in many cases. Because of these limitations, and
the increase in the length and complexity of the disclosure required to present individual
NEO information, requiring pay-versus-performance disclosures for each individual NEO
could increase the time required for a shareholder to analyze and process the information
and increase the likelihood of shareholder confusion.
We are proposing to require XBRL tagging of the disclosure because some
shareholders may be interested in extracting and analyzing the information in the table
across large numbers of registrants or, eventually, a large number of years, and would
thus benefit from the proposed tagging requirement. 154 The proposal would require
registrants to tag the numerical data disclosed in the required table, and to separately
154

Some shareholders that are interested in analyzing compensation data across a large number of filings
may also wish to analyze the substantial amount of other information regarding compensation in the proxy
statement. Because this other data is not currently provided in an interactive data format, such shareholders
would have to continue to purchase such data from a data vendor that aggregates this data or to
electronically parse or hand-collect such data from filings. The incremental benefit of the proposed data
tagging requirement is likely to be lower for such shareholders than for those primarily interested in the
data proposed to be tagged.

105

block-text tag, as three blocks, the disclosure of the relationship among the measures, the
disclosure of deductions and additions used to determine executive compensation actually
paid, and the disclosure regarding vesting date valuation assumptions. We have
considered alternatives with respect to the proposed XBRL tagging requirement,
including not requiring that the underlying data disclosed in tabular form be provided in
an interactive data format, requiring more or less of the information to be tagged,
allowing supplementary information to be tagged, or requiring a different tagging format.
The affected registrants are familiar with data tagging because they are required to
provide information in other filings in interactive data format, but the exact specifications
differ and they are not required to provide any interactive data in proxy or information
statements. 155 Requiring an interactive data format would impose additional costs and
burdens on registrants, beyond what they currently spend on producing interactive data
for other purposes, because their contracts with outside data tagging vendors and/or the
responsibilities of their in-house staff that works on data tagging would have to be
expanded to include the new tagging requirement. Despite these costs, some
shareholders may benefit from the data tagging requirement to the extent that it is helpful
in extracting the tagged data across large numbers of filings.
We considered not requiring registrants to tag, as a block, the graphical and/or
narrative disclosure that would follow the tabular disclosure. While the nature and
potential variation in format of this disclosure may make it less suitable for large-scale
analysis than the numerical data required to be tagged under the proposal, the incremental
155

Business development companies are not currently required to provide their financial statements
and financial statement footnotes in XBRL format, and may thus be less familiar with data tagging
than other registrants. We estimate that there are approximately 13 business development
companies that would be subject to the proposed amendment.

106

costs of tagging this disclosure as block-text should be low and such tagging could
benefit shareholders interested in extracting this part of the disclosure from a large
number of filings. We also considered not requiring registrants to tag, as blocks, the
disclosures of deductions and additions used to determine executive compensation
actually paid and the disclosure regarding vesting date valuation assumptions. The cost
of block tagging these disclosures should be low and shareholders interested in this
information may find such tagging to be useful. Alternatively, we could require that each
numerical item in the deductions and additions used to determine executive compensation
actually paid and the vesting date valuation assumptions be tagged separately. While
such tagging may benefit shareholders interested in using this data, it would require some
incremental compliance costs. Another alternative would be to allow registrants to tag
any supplemental measures of pay and performance that they include in the disclosure
beyond the prescribed measures. While some shareholders may benefit from such
tagging, the supplemental measures included, if any, are likely to vary across registrants
and such data may thus be less suitable for large-scale analysis than the prescribed
measures.
We also considered requiring registrants to provide the data in XML format rather
than XBRL. An XML format could be appropriate given the fixed structure of the
proposed tabular disclosure and would permit the use of existing EDGAR applications
that can convert submitted information to XML. This could increase the ease with which
registrants could implement the structured formatting requirement, and could thus reduce
costs, particularly for smaller registrants. However, XBRL is more appropriate for
capturing information that is not well suited for tabular disclosures; in particular, standard

107

XML is not able to tag large blocks of information without customization, whereas this
function is standard in XBRL. XBRL is therefore more suitable for implementing the
proposed requirements for block tags. In determining to propose a requirement to tag the
data in XBRL format as opposed to XML format, we also considered the fact that XBRL
allows for more flexibility to implement, for example, potential extensions to the data to
be tagged as discussed above.
c. Definition of Executive Compensation Actually Paid
We have also considered several reasonable alternatives for the definition of
executive compensation actually paid.
Incremental Compensation Earned
One approach would be to define “executive compensation actually paid” as the
incremental compensation earned by an executive in a given year over those amounts that
had already been earned in previous years. In this case, executive compensation actually
paid would, as in the proposed measure, include all of the components included in the
Summary Compensation Table (such as salary and cash bonuses) but with adjustments to
the amounts included for equity awards and pension plans. In contrast to the proposal,
the measure based on the incremental compensation earned would include in a given
fiscal year the grant-date values of any new equity awards granted that year together with
the annual change in value (whether positive or negative) of any outstanding, unvested
option and stock grants. The change in values of these grants would be included in each
fiscal year until their vesting date. In the case of options, these changes in value would
be measured by applying the registrant’s chosen option valuation methodology (e.g.,

108

Black-Scholes or lattice valuation). This treatment of equity awards is similar to an
approach used by one commenter. 156
The corresponding treatment for pension plans would be to include the present
value of those benefits that were earned in the last fiscal year, which may differ from the
actuarial present value attributable to services rendered during the applicable fiscal year.
In particular, the latter may be based on estimates of future benefits that include the
impact of assumptions about future levels of compensation. The former, on the other
hand, is intended to capture the present value of the impact on future benefits that can be
directly linked to the change in inputs to the benefit formula (including compensation
levels as well as years of service) over the last fiscal year.
A potential benefit to shareholders of applying these alternative adjustments to
equity and pension plans in presenting executive compensation actually paid is that, with
respect to equity awards, it would reduce the volatility in executive compensation
actually paid, which, as discussed above, could reduce the comparability of the
disclosures and the meaningfulness of relating the variation in the compensation measure
over time to stock performance. In particular, this alternative approach would limit the
value attributed to equity-based awards in any year to the change in value that is directly
related to the stock return over that year, rather than including in the year of vesting the
gains related to returns in all years since the grant was made. This approach may
therefore allow shareholders to more readily interpret the relationship between variation
in the compensation measure over time and stock performance. It may also reduce the

156

See letter from J&J.

109

unintended, indirect encouragement of shorter or more graduated vesting schedules in
order to smooth executive compensation actually paid under the proposed definition.
In addition, this alternative approach would limit potentially significant
differences in the measured executive compensation of registrants that provide very
similar equity awards but with vesting schedules that are not synchronized. As discussed
above, if two NEOs receive one-time awards of restricted stock that vest in full after one
year, but with vesting dates that are one day apart – on the last day of a fiscal year versus
the first day of the next fiscal year – the proposed approach would reflect the full value of
the award in different years for the two NEOs. The alternative approach based on the
incremental compensation earned would reflect any change in the value of each award
over a given fiscal year in that same fiscal year, generally resulting in a more similar
annual measure of compensation for the two NEOs in this example than the proposed
measure.
Finally, including the value of equity awards at the grant date and then reflecting
changes in this value in the years until vesting would increase the comparability of the
disclosures across registrants that rely on equity awards to different extents while still
demonstrating the performance sensitivity of unvested equity awards. For example,
consider the example above, in which, for a given fiscal year, one PEO is paid a $1
million salary in cash and another PEO is paid $1 million in restricted stock that vests
after one year, each of which comprises their total compensation. In contrast to the
proposed approach, which would reflect executive compensation actually paid of $1
million and zero, respectively, for the two executives in that year, this alternative would
reflect the same level of compensation for the two PEOs in that year, while still

110

presenting any changes in the value of the second PEO’s stock grant over the next year.
It is important to note that these changes in value could be negative. For example, if the
price of the stock granted to the second PEO were to fall significantly thereafter, or if the
vesting conditions were not satisfied, this alternative approach could result in a large
negative adjustment to that PEO’s executive compensation actually paid in the year of
such price change or failure to vest.
With respect to pensions, this alternative approach would provide a measure of
future benefits that may be more directly tied to changes over the last fiscal year.
Pension benefits may be a function of compensation levels, as in the case of pay-related,
final-pay, final-average-pay, or career-average-pay plans. In the proposed approach, the
values included for pensions are based on estimates that may already incorporate
projections about future compensation levels. As a result, the effect of actual changes in
current compensation levels on the value included for pensions in the proposed measure
may be dampened. Because actual changes in current compensation may be related to
performance, and these changes in compensation may be magnified by pension benefits
that are a function of compensation levels, the alternative approach may be more useful
in evaluating the relationship between pay and performance. The alternative approach
may also further increase the comparability between compensation provided through
defined benefit and defined contribution plans, since registrant contributions to defined
benefit plans may also be directly related to current compensation levels or other such
metrics with respect to the last fiscal year.
However, interpreting compensation “actually paid” as the incremental
compensation earned by an executive in a given year would increase the reporting burden

111

for registrants, because equity awards would have to be revalued in each year from the
grant date until the time of vesting, rather than only at the grant date (for the purpose of
the Summary Compensation Table and related disclosures) and at any vesting dates (for
the purpose of the proposed pay-versus-performance disclosure). Also, the calculations
to be made with respect to pensions may be less directly related to the values already
calculated for the purpose of financial statement reporting, and could therefore be more
burdensome. Overall, this approach may provide some benefits but could result in
additional costs.
Other Alternative Definitions
Some commenters suggested excluding components of pay that may be
considered to be unrelated to performance – such as perquisites, values related to
retirement benefits, or even base salaries – from the definition of executive compensation
actually paid. 157 We believe that restricting the definition of executive compensation
actually paid in such a way would not provide shareholders with a complete
understanding of compensation and how it relates to financial performance. While
compensation committees may rely mainly on particular components of compensation in
order to provide performance incentives, other components of compensation (such as
157

See letters from CEC II (recommending that the measure exclude one-time special make-whole
awards because they are non-performance-based), Compensia (recommending that the measure
only include items that “are paid and awarded based on the financial performance of the
company,” which are listed as amounts paid under both short-term and long-term incentive
compensation plans and performance-based equity awards for which the performance measures
are based on financial criteria), Cook (recommending that that measure exclude changes in
actuarial pension value, above-market earnings on deferred compensation, and the All Other
Compensation category “because these figures have nothing to do with performance”), Davis Polk
(recommending that the measure only include “items that an issuer believes are based in some
measure on attainment of company performance objectives” and exclude items such as pension
accruals, deferred compensation earnings, issuer contributions to tax-qualified and non-qualified
deferred compensation plans and perquisites and welfare benefits), and Foley (recommending that
the measure reflect “performance-based pay (with or without base salary added in).”)

112

perquisites, registrant contributions to defined contribution plans, and life insurance
premiums paid by the registrant) may or may not vary with company performance and,
even if they do not vary with performance, may be important to consider in order to
understand how sensitive the totality of compensation is to performance. Restricting the
types of compensation included in executive compensation actually paid may also reduce
the comparability of disclosures across registrants that rely more heavily on types of
compensation that are excluded from the prescribed measure versus those that rely more
heavily on compensation types that are included.
The proposal would require registrants to include the Summary Compensation
Table measure of total compensation together with executive compensation actually paid
in the tabular disclosure of pay and performance measures, but some commenters have
suggested that executive compensation actually paid also be defined to be more similar to
this existing measure. For example, four commenters supported the use of grant-date
values for equity awards in executive compensation actually paid. 158 Such an approach
would reduce the costs of compiling the required disclosure and would result in a
compensation measure that, because of its comprehensiveness, would be reasonably
comparable across registrants. However, this approach would not reflect the performance
sensitivity of unvested equity awards. As discussed above, because academic research
has demonstrated that the empirical relationship between pay and performance is driven
by changes in the value of executive stock and option holdings, considering only grantdate values may ignore one of the primary channels for relating pay and performance. 159

158

See letters from Compensia, Cook, MDU, and Meridian.

159

See supra note 140.

113

We note that this concern was raised by one commenter. 160 Some commenters have also
suggested that the definition of executive compensation actually paid follow total
compensation in its approach to pension plans, by including the total change in actuarial
pension value in the measure. 161 As in the case of the treatment of equity awards,
mirroring the approach in total compensation in this way would reduce compliance costs.
However, this alternative would introduce additional volatility to the compensation
measure for registrants whose NEOs have large pension balances, as the actuarial values
of the previously accumulated benefits are likely to be strongly impacted by factors such
as changes in interest rates.
D.

Request for Comment

Throughout this release, we have discussed the anticipated costs and benefits of
the proposed amendments. We request and encourage any interested person to submit
comments regarding the proposed amendments and our analysis of the potential effects of
the amendments. We request comment from the point of view of registrants,
shareholders, and other market participants. With regard to any comments, we note that
such comments are particularly helpful to us if accompanied by quantified estimates or
other detailed analysis and supporting data regarding the issues addressed in those
comments. We also are interested in comments on the qualitative benefits and costs we
have identified and any benefits and costs we have overlooked.

160

See letter from SCSGP.

161

See letters from MDU and SVA.

114

55. We seek comment and data on the magnitude of all of the costs and benefits
identified as well as any other costs and benefits that may result from the adoption
of the proposed amendments. In addition, we seek views regarding these costs
and benefits for particular types of covered registrants, including small registrants,
and for particular types of shareholders.
56. Would the proposed disclosure facilitate shareholders’ evaluation of a registrant’s
executive compensation practices? Are there alternative definitions of executive
compensation actually paid and financial performance, or other types of
computations or compensation data, which would be more useful to shareholders
in evaluating pay-versus-performance alignment, while still satisfying the
mandate of Exchange Act Section 14(i)? Would limiting the applicability of the
amendments to PEO compensation rather than that of all NEOs affect the benefit
to shareholders? Would requiring the disclosure separately for each NEO affect
this benefit?
57. How would the proposed treatment of equity awards, particularly the valuation
and inclusion of such awards in executive compensation actually paid at the time
at which they meet all vesting conditions, affect compliance costs and the
comparability of the disclosure across registrants? Would the registrant’s
valuation of equity awards as of their vesting date provide new data of use to
shareholders, relative to the compensation data currently required to be disclosed?
What are the costs and benefits of alternative approaches to treating equity awards
in the definition of executive compensation actually paid?

115

58. How would the proposed treatment of pension plans in executive compensation
actually paid for registrants other than smaller reporting companies affect the
costs and benefits of the proposed amendments, including any effects on
compliance costs and the comparability of the disclosure across registrants?
Would the inclusion in this compensation measure of only the actuarial present
value of benefits attributable to services rendered during the applicable fiscal year
provide new data of use to shareholders, relative to the pension information
currently required to be disclosed? Would the adjustment provide a computation
that makes information of interest to shareholders more readily available to them,
even if this information is already disclosed in another form? What are the costs
and benefits of alternative approaches to treating pension plans in the definition of
executive compensation actually paid?
59. Would the proposed scaled disclosure requirements for smaller reporting
companies reduce the compliance burden for such registrants while not adversely
impacting shareholders? Could the disclosure be otherwise scaled for smaller
reporting companies to minimize the incremental burden on smaller reporting
companies while preserving the benefits to shareholders?
60. What effect would the proposed amendments have on the incentives of boards,
senior executives, and shareholders? Would the proposed amendments be likely
to change the behavior of these parties, registrants, shareholders, or other market
participants? Should we alter the proposed requirements to address that impact?
If so, describe any changes that would address that impact and discuss any related
costs and benefits that would arise from such a change.

116

61. Is the proposal likely to lead to shareholder confusion, such as about the
optimality of current pay-versus-performance alignment? Is the proposed ability
to provide additional, alternative measures of compensation and performance, as
well as the proposed flexibility in presentation format, sufficient to offset
potential shareholder confusion? Would such additional measures or variation in
formats meaningfully limit the comparability of the disclosure across registrants
or otherwise affect the benefits of Exchange Act Section 14(i)? Is there additional
information that we could require of all registrants, or particular minimum
standards for the presentation format, that would enhance comparability and the
benefits to shareholders at a reasonable cost to registrants?
62. What effect would the proposed amendments have on competition? Would the
proposed amendments put registrants subject to the requirements or particular
types of registrants subject to the requirements at a competitive disadvantage? If
so, what changes to the proposed requirements could mitigate the impact while
still satisfying the mandate of Exchange Act Section 14(i)?
63. What effect would the proposed amendments have on market efficiency? Are
there any positive or negative effects of the proposed amendments on efficiency
that we should consider? How could the amendments be changed to promote any
positive effect or to mitigate any negative effect on efficiency, while still
satisfying the mandate of Exchange Act Section 14(i)?
64. What effect would the proposed amendments have on capital formation? How
could the amendments be changed to promote capital formation or to mitigate any

117

negative effect on capital formation resulting from the amendments, while still
satisfying the mandate of Exchange Act Section 14(i)?
V.

Paperwork Reduction Act
A.

Background

Certain provisions of the proposed amendments contain a “collection of
information” within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”). 162
The Commission is submitting the proposed amendments to the Office of Management
and Budget (“OMB”) for review in accordance with the PRA. 163 An agency may not
conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to comply with, a collection of
information unless it displays a currently valid control number. The titles for the
collections of information are:
“Regulation S-K” (OMB Control No. 3235-0071); 164
“Regulation 14A and Schedule 14A” (OMB Control No. 3235-0059); and
“Regulation 14C and Schedule 14C” (OMB Control No. 3235-0065).
We adopted all of the existing regulations and schedules pursuant to the Securities
Act or the Exchange Act. The regulations and schedules set forth the disclosure
requirements for registration statements and proxy and information statements filed by
registrants to help shareholders make informed investment and voting decisions. Our

162

44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.

163

44 U.S.C. 3507(d) and 5 CFR 1320.11.

164

The paperwork burden from Regulation S-K is imposed through the forms that are subject to the
requirements in those regulations and is reflected in the analysis of those forms. To avoid a
Paperwork Reduction Act inventory reflecting duplicative burdens and for administrative
convenience, we assign a one-hour burden to Regulation S-K.

118

proposed amendments to existing schedules and regulations are intended to satisfy the
requirements of Section 14(i) of the Exchange Act.
The hours and costs associated with preparing, filing and sending the schedule
constitute reporting and cost burdens imposed by each collection of information. An
agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a
collection of information unless it displays a currently valid OMB control number.
Compliance with the amendments is mandatory. Responses to the information
collections will not be kept confidential and there is no mandatory retention period for the
information disclosed.
B.

Summary of Collection of Information Requirements

We are proposing to add new Item 402(v) to Regulation S-K. This item would
require registrants to provide a table containing the values of the prescribed measures of
executive compensation actually paid and the Summary Compensation Table measure of
total compensation for the PEO and as an average for the other NEOs, as well as TSR
both for the registrant and the peer group. The data in the table, including the footnote
disclosure of the amounts deducted and added to the Summary Compensation Table
measure, would be required to be tagged in XBRL. Proposed Item 402(v) also would
require a registrant to provide a clear description of the relationship between executive
compensation actually paid to its NEOs and the registrant’s TSR for each of the five most
recently completed fiscal years. A registrant also would be required to disclose the
relationship between its TSR and peer group TSR. This disclosure about the relationship
between a registrant’s executive compensation actually paid and its TSR, and the
disclosure about a registrant’s TSR and peer group TSR would be required to be tagged

119

in XBRL. Emerging growth companies and foreign private issuers would not be required
to provide the disclosure. Smaller reporting companies would be subject to scaled
disclosure requirements. The proposed disclosure would be required in proxy statements
on Schedule 14A and information statements on Schedule 14C in which executive
compensation disclosure pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K is required.
We have proposed to base much of the information required in the pay-versusperformance disclosure on items that are already required elsewhere in the executive
compensation disclosure provided by registrants. We believe that using as a starting
point the total compensation that registrants already are required to report in the
Summary Compensation Table and making adjustments to those figures will help reduce
the burden on registrants in preparing the disclosure required by new Item 402(v) of
Regulation S-K. As discussed above, the proposed amendments are not expected to
result in the provision of significant new information to shareholders, or to require
registrants to collect significant new data, relative to current disclosure requirements. All
of the individual components and assumptions needed to calculate executive
compensation actually paid already must be reported under existing disclosure
requirements, with the exception of vesting-date valuation assumptions for options.
We arrived at the estimates discussed below by reviewing our burden estimates
for similar disclosure and considering our experience with other tagged data initiatives.
We believe that the proposed amendments regarding pay-versus-performance disclosure
would enhance the already required compensation disclosure. In addition, we believe
that much of the information required to prepare the pay-versus-performance disclosure
would be readily available to registrants because it is required to be gathered, determined

120

or prepared in order to satisfy the other disclosure requirements of Item 402 of
Regulation S-K.
We estimate that the average incremental burden for a registrant to prepare the
pay-versus-performance disclosure would be 15 hours. This estimate includes the time
and cost of preparing disclosure that has been appropriately reviewed, including, as
applicable, by management, in-house counsel, outside counsel and members of the board
of directors as well as tagging the data in XBRL format. Because this estimate is an
average of all companies, the burden could be more or less for any particular company,
and may vary depending on a variety of factors, such as the degree to which companies
use the services of outside professionals, or internal staff and resources to tag the data in
XBRL. This burden, as discussed in more detail below, would be added to the current
burdens for Schedule 14A and Schedule 14C.
As a result of the estimates discussed above, we estimate for purposes of the PRA
that the total incremental burden on all registrants of the proposed amendments would be
67,500 hours for internal company time and $9,000,000 for the services of outside
professionals. For the proxy and information statements on Schedule 14A and Schedule
14C, we estimate that 75% of the burden of preparation is carried by the company
internally and that 25% of the burden of preparation is carried by outside professionals
retained by the company at an average cost of $400 per hour. The portion of the burden
carried by outside professionals is reflected as a cost, while the portion of the burden
carried by the company internally is reflected in hours. There is no change to the
estimated burden of Regulation S-K because the burdens that this regulation imposes are
reflected in our revised estimates for the forms.

121

C.

Paperwork Reduction Act Burden Estimates

We derived our new burden hour and cost estimates by estimating the total
amount of time it would take a registrant to prepare and review the disclosure
requirements contained in the final rules. This estimate represents the average burden for
all registrants, both large and small. Because it is difficult to determine the precise
number of emerging growth companies, we have not adjusted the estimates to back the
number of these companies out of our estimate, even though emerging growth companies
would not be subject to the proposed amendments. In deriving our estimates, we
recognize that the burdens will likely vary among individual registrants based on a
number of factors, including the size and complexity of their executive compensation
arrangements. We believe that some registrants will experience costs in excess of this
average in the first year of compliance with the amendments and some registrants may
experience less than the average costs.
A summary of the proposed changes is included in the table below.
Table 1: Calculation of Incremental PRA Burden Estimates 165
Current

Proposed

Current

Increase in Burden

Proposed

Current

Increase in

Proposed

Annual

Annual

Burden

Hours

Burden Hours

Professional

Professional Costs

Professional

Responses

Responses

Hours

(D)

(E)

Costs

(G)

Costs

(A)

(B)

(C)

=C+D

(F)

Schedule 14A

5,446

5,446

714,586

61,268

775,854

$85,664,277

$8,169,000

$93,833,277

Schedule 14C

554

554

66,784

6,232

73,016

$7,952,549

$831,000

$8,783,549

67,500

Total

165

=F+G

$9,000,000

The number of responses reflected in the table equals the three-year average of the number of
schedules filed with the Commission and currently reported by the Commission to OMB.

122

D.

Solicitation of Comments

We request comments in order to evaluate: (1) whether the proposed collection of
information is necessary for the proper performance of the functions of the agency,
including whether the information would have practical utility; (2) the accuracy of our
estimate of the burden of the proposed collection of information; (3) whether there are
ways to enhance the quality, utility, and clarity of the information to be collected; (4)
whether there are ways to minimize the burden of the collection of information on those
who are to respond, including through the use of automated collection techniques or other
forms of information technology; and (5) whether the proposed amendments will have
any effects on any other collections of information not previously identified in this
section. 166
Any member of the public may direct to us any comments about the accuracy of these
burden estimates and any suggestions for reducing these burdens. Persons submitting
comments on the collection of information requirements should direct the comments to
the Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC
20503, and should send a copy to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090, with reference to File No.
_________. Requests for materials submitted to OMB by the Commission with regard to
these collections of information should be in writing, refer to File No. ________, and be
submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission, Office of FOIA Services, 100 F
Street NE, Washington, DC 20549-2736. OMB is required to make a decision
166

We request comment pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3506(c)(2)(B).

123

concerning the collection of information between 30 and 60 days after publication of this
release. Consequently, a comment to OMB is best assured of having its full effect if
OMB receives it within 30 days of publication.
VI.

Initial Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”) 167 requires the Commission, in

promulgating rules under Section 553 of the Administrative Procedures Act, 168 to
consider the impact of those rules on small entities. Section 603(a) of the RFA 169
generally requires the Commission to undertake a regulatory flexibility analysis of all
proposed amendments to determine the impact of such rulemaking on “small entities.”
A.

Reasons For, and Objectives of, the Proposed Action

The proposed amendments are designed to implement Exchange Act Section
14(i), which was added by Section 953(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act and would exempt
certain reporting companies. Specifically, the proposed amendments would require
registrants, other than emerging growth companies and foreign private issuers, to disclose
in any proxy or information statement for which disclosure under Item 402 of Regulation
S-K is required, the relationship between executive compensation actually paid to the
NEOs and the financial performance of the registrant for the three most recently
completed fiscal years, taking into account any change in the value of the shares of stock
and dividends of the registrant and any distributions.
B.

Legal Basis

167

5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.

168

5 U.S.C. 553.

169

5 U.S.C. 603(a).

124

We are proposing the amendments pursuant to Section 953(a) of the Dodd-Frank
Act and Sections 3(b), 14, 23(a) and 36 of the Exchange Act.
C.

Small Entities Subject to the Proposed Amendments

The proposed amendments would affect some companies that are small entities.
For purposes of the RFA, under our rules, an issuer, other than an investment
company, 170 is a “small business” or “small organization” if it has total assets of $5
million or less as of the end of its most recent fiscal year and is engaged or proposing to
engage in an offering of securities which does not exceed $5 million. 171 We estimate that
there are approximately 428 issuers that may be considered small entities. The proposed
amendments would affect small entities that have a class of securities that are registered
under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. An investment company, including a business
development company, is considered to be a “small business” if it, together with other
investment companies in the same group of related investment companies, has net assets
of $50 million or less as of the end of its most recent fiscal year. 172 We believe that the
proposal would affect some small entities that are business development companies who
have a class of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act. We estimate

170

For purposes of the RFA, an investment company is a “small business” or “small organization”
that, together with other investment companies in the same group of related investment
companies, has net assets of $50 million or less as of the end of its most recent fiscal year. [17
CFR 270.0-10].

171

See Securities Act Rule 157 [17 CFR 230.157]; Exchange Act Rule 0-10(a) [17 CFR 240.0-10(a)].

172

17 CFR 270.0-10(a).

125

that there are approximately five business development companies that may be
considered small entities. 173
D.

Duplicative, Overlapping or Conflicting Federal Rules

As noted above, much of the information required by the proposed amendments is
derived from information currently required to be reported under existing disclosure
rules. Nevertheless, we believe that the repackaging of this information in the required
pay-versus-performance disclosure may allow shareholders to more quickly and easily
process the information accurately and thereby lower the burden on shareholders,
including shareholders of smaller entities, of evaluating executive compensation
packages. We do not believe that the proposed amendments would conflict with other
federal rules.
E.

Significant Alternatives

The Regulatory Flexibility Act directs us to consider alternatives that would
accomplish our stated objectives, while minimizing any significant adverse impact on
small entities. In connection with the proposed amendments, we considered the
following alternatives:
•

Establishing different compliance or reporting requirements or timetables
that take into account the resources available to small entities;

•

Clarifying, consolidating or simplifying compliance and reporting
requirements under the rules for small entities;

•
173

Use of performance rather than design standards; and

We estimate that there are 13 business development companies that would be subject to the
proposed amendment, five of which may be considered small entities for purposes of the RFA.

126

•

Exempting small entities from all or part of the proposed amendments.

The proposed amendments would require clear disclosure of prescribed measures
of executive compensation actually paid and the company’s financial performance and
the relationship between these measures. All of the individual components needed to
calculate executive compensation actually paid already must be reported under current
disclosure rules, with the exception of the values to be included with respect to pension
benefits and options. Given the straightforward nature of the proposed disclosure, we do
not believe that it is necessary to exempt small entities from the proposed requirements.
However, we have proposed scaled disclosure requirements for smaller reporting
companies in an attempt to limit the compliance burden that would be imposed on such
companies. 174 Entities that are smaller reporting companies would be subject to the
proposed amendments, but would provide only three years of disclosure, instead of the
proposed five years for all other registrants. Also, the proposed amendments would
require smaller reporting companies to disclose absolute TSR, but they would not be
required to disclose peer group TSR. In addition, because the scaled compensation
disclosure that applies to smaller reporting companies does not include pension plans, the
pension plan adjustment would not apply to smaller reporting companies. To the extent
that a small entity is a registrant, we believe that there are few, if any, small entities that

174

A smaller reporting company is an issuer, other than certain classes of issuers (including an
investment company), that had a public float of less than $75 million as of the end of its most
recently completed second fiscal quarter, or in the case of an initial registration statement under
the Securities Act or Exchange Act for the shares of its common equity, had a public float of less
than $75 million as of a date within 30 days of the date of the filing of the registration statement.
See Securities Act Rule 405 [17 CFR 230.405]. In the case of an issuer whose public float was
zero, an issuer could qualify as a smaller reporting company if it had annual revenues of less than
$50 million during the most recently completed fiscal year for which audited financial statements
are available.

127

do not qualify as smaller reporting companies because it is unlikely that an entity with
total assets of $5 million or less would have a public float of $75 million or more. A
small entity, therefore, would likely be subject to the scaled disclosure requirements
described above that are proposed for smaller reporting companies. We believe this will
minimize any adverse impact on these companies of providing new disclosures which
they do not currently provide.
With respect to compliance timetables, the proposed rules provide smaller
reporting companies with transitional relief whereby such companies would be required
to provide two years of data, instead of three, in the first proxy filing after the rules
become effective, and three years of data in subsequent proxy filings. The proposed rules
also provide smaller reporting companies with a phase-in of the requirement to provide
the disclosure in XBRL format.
Although the proposed amendments would require disclosure of prescribed
measures of executive compensation actually paid and financial performance, they would
permit issuers significant flexibility in presenting the relationship between these
measures. For example, issuers, including small entities, could describe the relationship
in narrative form or by means of a graph or chart. In this respect, the proposed
amendments make use of both design and performance standards as a means of balancing
the need for uniform disclosure across registrants with the desire to provide registrants
with flexibility to describe their pay-versus-performance relationship in a format that is
best suited to their particular circumstances.
Commenters are asked to described the nature of any impact on small entities and
provide empirical data to support the extent of the impact.

128

VII.

Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act
For purposes of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of

1996, 175 a rule is “major” if it has resulted, or is likely to result in:
•

an annual effect on the U.S. economy of $100 million or more;

•

a major increase in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries; or

•

significant adverse effects on competition, investment, or innovation.

We request comment on whether our proposal would be a “major rule” for purposes of
the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act. We solicit comment and
empirical data on:
•

the potential effect on the U.S. economy on an annual basis;

•

any potential increase in costs or prices for consumers or individual industries;
and

•

any potential effect on competition, investment, or innovation.

VIII. Statutory Authority and Text of Proposed Amendments
We are proposing the amendments contained in this document under the authority
set forth in Section 953(a) of the Dodd-Frank Act and Sections 3(b), 14, 23(a) and 36 of
the Exchange Act.
List of Subjects
17 CFR Parts 229, 240 and 249.
Reporting and Recordkeeping requirements; Securities.
For the reasons set out in the preamble, Title 17, Chapter II of the Code of Federal
Regulations is proposed to be amended as follows:
175

Pub. L. No. 104-121, Title II, 110 Stat. 857 (1996).

129

PART 229 -- STANDARD INSTRUCTIONS FOR FILING FORMS UNDER
SECURITIES ACT OF 1933, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND
ENERGY POLICY AND CONSERVATION ACT OF 1975 -- REGULATION S-K
1.

The general authority citation for Part 229 continues to read as follows:

Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77e, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77k, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77aa(25),
77aa(26), 77ddd, 77eee, 77ggg, 77hhh, 77iii, 77jjj, 77nnn, 77sss, 78c, 78i, 78j, 78j-3, 78l,
78m, 78n, 78n-1, 78o, 78u-5, 78w, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-8, 80a-9, 80a-20, 80a-29, 80a-30,
80a-31(c), 80a-37, 80a-38(a), 80a-39, 80b-11, and 7201 et seq., and 18 U.S.C. 1350
unless otherwise noted.
*
2.

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

*

Amend § 229.402 by:

Adding paragraph (v).
The addition reads as follows:
§ 229.402 Executive compensation.
*
(v)

Pay versus Performance. (1) Provide the information specified in

paragraph (v)(2) of this item for each of the registrant’s last five completed fiscal years in
the following tabular format:
PAY VERSUS PERFORMANCE
Summary

Average

Average

Total

Peer Group

Compensation

Compensation

Summary

Compensation

Shareholder

Total

Year

Table Total for

Actually Paid

Compensation

Actually Paid to

Return

Shareholder

(a)

PEO

to PEO

Table Total

non-PEO named

(f)

Return

(b)

(c)

for non-PEO

executive officers

named

(e)

130

(g)

executive
officers
(d)

(2) The Table shall include:
(i) The fiscal year covered (column (a));
(ii) The PEO’s total compensation for the covered fiscal year as reported in the
Summary Compensation Table pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(x) of this Item, or paragraph
(n)(2)(x) for smaller reporting companies (column (b)), and the average total
compensation reported for the remaining named executive officers reported pursuant to
those paragraphs (column (d));
(iii) The executive compensation actually paid to the PEO (column (c)) and the
average executive compensation actually paid to the remaining named executive officers
(column (e)). If more than one person served as the registrant’s PEO during a fiscal year,
include in column (c) the aggregate compensation actually paid for the persons who
served as PEO. For purposes of columns (c) and (e) of the table required by paragraph
(v)(1) of this Item, executive compensation actually paid shall be the total compensation
for the covered fiscal year for each named executive officer as provided in paragraph
(c)(2)(x) of this Item, or paragraph (n)(2)(x) for smaller reporting companies, adjusted to:
(A) Deduct the aggregate change in the actuarial present value of the named
executive officer’s accumulated benefit under all defined benefit and actuarial pension
plans reported in the Summary Compensation Table in paragraph (c)(2)(viii)(A) of this
Item;

131

(B) Add the service cost under all defined benefit and actuarial pension plans
reported in the Summary Compensation Table in paragraph (c)(2)(viii)(A) calculated as
the actuarial present value of each named executive officer’s benefit under all such plans
attributable to services rendered during the covered fiscal year, consistent with “service
cost” as defined in FASB ASC Topic 715; and
(C) Deduct the amounts reported in the Summary Compensation Table pursuant
to paragraphs (c)(2)(v) and (c)(2)(vi) of this Item and add in their place the fair value on
the vesting date of all stock awards, and all options awards, with or without tandem SARs
(including awards that subsequently have been transferred), for which all applicable
vesting conditions were satisfied during the covered fiscal year.
(iv) For purposes of columns (f) and (g) of the table required by paragraph (v)(1)
of this Item, for each year disclose the cumulative total shareholder return of the
registrant (column (f)) and peer group cumulative total shareholder return (column (g))
calculated in the same manner, and over the same measurement period, as under Item
201(e) of Regulation S-K. The term “measurement period” shall be the period beginning
at the “measurement point” established by the market close on the last trading day before
the registrant’s earliest fiscal year in the table, through and including the end of the
registrant’s last completed fiscal year. The closing price of the measurement point must
be converted into a fixed investment, stated in dollars, in the registrant’s stock (or in the
stocks represented by the peer group). For each fiscal year, the amount included in the
table shall be the cumulative total shareholder return as of the end of that year. The same
methodology must be used in calculating both the registrant’s total shareholder return and
that of the peer group.

132

(3) For each amount disclosed in columns (c) and (e) of the table required by
paragraph (v)(1), disclose in a footnote to the table for the PEO and the average
remaining named executive officer compensation each of the amounts deducted and
added pursuant to paragraph (v)(2)(iii). For disclosure of the executive compensation
actually paid to named executive officers other than the PEO, provide the amounts
required under this paragraph as averages.
(4) For the value of equity awards added pursuant to paragraph (v)(2)(iii)(C),
disclose in a footnote to the table required by paragraph (v)(1) any assumption made in
the valuation that differs materially from those disclosed pursuant to Instruction 1 to Item
402(c)(2)(v) and (vi), or for smaller reporting companies, Instruction 1 to Item
402(n)(2)(v) and (vi).
(5)

In proxy or information statements in which disclosure is required

pursuant to this Item, use the information provided in the table required by paragraph
(v)(1) to provide a clear description of the relationship between (i) the executive
compensation actually paid by the registrant to the PEO (column (c)) and the average of
the executive compensation actually paid to the named executive officers other than the
PEO (column (e)) listed in the Summary Compensation Table, and (ii) the cumulative
total shareholder return of the registrant (column (f)), for each of the registrant’s last five
completed fiscal years. This description shall also include a comparison of the
cumulative total shareholder return of the registrant (column (f)) and cumulative total
shareholder return of the registrant’s peer group (column (g)) over the same period.
(6)

The disclosure required to be provided pursuant to this paragraph (v) shall

appear with, and in the same format as, the rest of the disclosure required to be provided

133

pursuant to paragraph (v) and, in addition, shall be electronically formatted using the
eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) in accordance with the EDGAR Filer
Manual (17 CFR 232.11) as an exhibit to definitive Schedule 14A (17 CFR 240.14a-101)
or definitive Schedule 14C (17 CFR 240.14c-101). Each amount required to be disclosed
in the table pursuant to paragraph (v)(1) must be tagged separately. The disclosure
required to be provided pursuant to paragraphs (v)(3), (v)(4) and (v)(5) of this Item must
be block-text tagged.
Instructions to Item 402(v).
1.

Transitional relief. A registrant may provide the disclosure required by paragraph

(v) for three years, instead of five years, in the first filing in which it provides this
disclosure, and provide disclosure for an additional year in each of the two subsequent
annual filings in which this disclosure is required.
2.

Repricings and other modifications. If at any time during the last completed

fiscal year, the registrant has adjusted or amended the exercise price of previously vested
options or SARs held by a named executive officer, whether through amendment,
cancellation or replacement grants, or any other means, or otherwise has materially
modified such awards, the registrant shall include in the compensation reported under
paragraph (v)(2)(iii)(C) of this Item the incremental fair value, computed as the excess
fair value of the modified award over the fair value of the original award upon vesting of
the modified award. If the modified award is subject to multiple vesting dates, the
registrant shall include in the compensation reported under paragraph (v)(2)(iii)(C) the
pro rata incremental fair value paid at each vesting date.

134

3.

Fair value. Fair value amounts shall be computed in a manner consistent with the

fair value measurement guidance in FASB ASC Topic 718.
4.

Presentation. If more than one person served as the PEO of the registrant during

the covered fiscal year, then the compensation for all persons who served as the PEO of
the registrant for that year shall be aggregated.
5.

Exempted registrants. A registrant is not required to comply with paragraph (v)

of this Item if it is an emerging growth company, as defined in Section 3(a) of the
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)).
6.

New registrants. Information for fiscal years prior to the last completed fiscal

year will not be required if the registrant was not required to report pursuant to section
13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78m(a) or 78o(d)) at any time during that
year.
7.

Peer group. For purposes of determining the total shareholder return of the

registrant’s peer group, the registrant shall use the same index or issuers used for
purposes of Item 201(e)(1)(ii) or, if applicable, the companies it uses as a peer group for
purposes of Item 402(b). If the peer group is not a published industry or line-of-business
index, the identity of the issuers comprising the group must be disclosed. The returns of
each component issuer of the group must be weighted according to the respective issuers’
stock market capitalization at the beginning of each period for which a return is indicated.
8.

Smaller reporting companies. A registrant that qualifies as a “smaller reporting

company,” as defined by §229.10(f)(1), may provide the information required by
paragraph (v) for three years, instead of five years. A smaller reporting company may
provide the disclosure required by paragraph (v) for only two fiscal years in the first

135

filing in which it provides this disclosure, and is not required to provide the disclosure
required by paragraph (v)(5) with respect to the total shareholder return of its peer group.
For purposes of paragraph (v)(2)(iii) of this Item with respect to smaller reporting
companies, executive compensation actually paid shall be the total compensation for the
covered fiscal year for each named executive officer as provided in paragraph (n)(2)(x) of
this Item, adjusted to deduct the amounts reported in the Summary Compensation Table
pursuant to paragraphs (n)(2)(v) and (n)(2)(vi) of this Item, and to add in their place the
fair value on the vesting date of the amounts added in paragraph (v)(2)(iii)(C). Disclose
in a footnote to the table required pursuant to paragraph (v)(1) for the PEO and average
remaining named executive officer compensation the amounts deducted from, and added
to, the Summary Compensation Table pursuant to this instruction. A smaller reporting
company is required to comply with paragraph (v)(6) in the third filing in which it
provides the disclosure required by paragraph (v).
9.

Incorporation by reference. The information in paragraph (v) of this Item will not

be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act or the
Exchange Act, except to the extent that the registrant specifically incorporates it by
reference.
*

*

*

*

*

PART 240 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
3. The authority citation for Part 240 continues to read, in part, as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn,
77sss, 77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78m, 78n,

136

78n-1, 78o, 78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20,
80a-23, 80a-29, 80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, and 7210 et seq.; and 8302; 7 U.S.C.
2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C. 5521(e)(3); 18 U.S.C. 1350; and Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat.
1376, (2010), unless otherwise noted.
* * * * *
4. Amend § 240.14a-101 by adding Item 25.
The addition reads as follows:
§240.14a-101 Schedule 14A. Information required in proxy statement.
SCHEDULE 14A INFORMATION
* * * * *
Item 25. Exhibits.
Provide the information required to be disclosed by Item 402(v)(1) of Regulation S-K (17
CFR 229.402(v)(1)) in an exhibit to this Schedule 14A electronically formatted using the
eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL) interactive data standard.
* * * * *
By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

April 29, 2015

137

