UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 72058 / April 30, 2014
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 3826 / April 30, 2014
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 31035 / April 30, 2014
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15526

In the Matter of
GEORGE B. FRANZ III
and
RUBY CORPORATION,
Respondents.

ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND
A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 203(e), (f), AND
(k) OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT
OF 1940, SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AND SECTION
9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT COMPANY
ACT OF 1940
I.

On September 26, 2013, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”
or “SEC”) instituted public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings pursuant to
Sections 203(e), (f), and (k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”),
Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Section 9(b) of
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against George B.
Franz III and Ruby Corporation.

II.
Respondents have submitted a joint Offer of Settlement (“Offer”) which the
Commission has determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and
any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the
Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as
to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and over the subject matter of these
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Making
Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to
Sections 203(e), (f), and (k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Section 21C of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940
(“Order”), as set forth below. 1
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds that:
SUMMARY
This matter arises out of the theft of advisory client funds and a cover-up by the
perpetrator’s father and supervisor. From 2007 through 2011, Andrew Franz stole over
$490,000 from about 50 clients of Ruby Corporation (“Ruby”), an investment adviser
registered with the Commission. Andrew Franz also stole another $350,000 from Ruby
itself and $800,000 from a Franz family trust. Andrew Franz issued numerous bogus
advisory fee requests for Ruby client accounts and then diverted the resulting excess fees
to his personal bank accounts or to Ruby’s bank accounts to conceal the firm’s dwindling
income. Andrew also made fraudulent redemption requests from client accounts and
diverted those funds. George Franz, Andrew’s father and the sole owner and principal of
Ruby, learned of numerous instances of misconduct and thefts by Andrew from 2007
through early 2011 but did nothing to stop him, even engaging in a cover-up in which he
defrauded his clients and lied to the SEC during its investigation, including by providing
false documents to the SEC.
RESPONDENTS
1.
George B. Franz III. George Franz founded Ruby Corporation, a registered
investment adviser located in Beachwood, Ohio, in 2000 and is its sole owner and
The findings herein are made pursuant to the Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

1

2

principal. George Franz had supervisory responsibility over Andrew Franz from at least
2006 through 2011. George Franz, age 71, is a resident of Moreland Hills, Ohio and
Marco Island, Florida. George Franz received his Series 6 license in 1982 and was
associated with various brokerage firms from 1991 until September 2006, when he
ceased to be associated with any brokerage firm.
2.
Ruby Corporation. Ruby Corporation (“Ruby”) is an Ohio corporation
with its principal place of business in Beachwood, Ohio. Ruby is registered with the
Commission as an investment adviser. Since 2007, Ruby has had two or three part-time
employees on its staff in addition to its owner George Franz. As of December 2012,
Ruby had 99 clients with assets under management of $21 million. Ruby’s clients are
typically middle-age and retirement-age individuals in the Cleveland, Youngstown,
and Dayton, Ohio areas. Ruby’s client accounts are discretionary and are invested
primarily in mutual funds and variable annuities.
OTHER RELEVANT INDIVIDUAL
3.
Andrew J. Franz. Andrew Franz, age 42, is an inmate at the Federal
Correctional Institution in Ashland, Kentucky, and is formerly a resident of Aurora,
Ohio. Andrew Franz received his Series 6 license in 2002 and was a registered
representative with various broker-dealers until March 2011. Andrew Franz was a paid
employee of Ruby from 2002 until 2007, after which he ceased receiving a salary but
continued to manage Ruby’s operations, specifically the billing of management fees on
client accounts. At all times until his termination from Ruby in 2011, Andrew Franz
maintained an office at Ruby.
4.
In March 2012, the SEC filed an emergency action against Andrew Franz
in U.S. District Court, alleging among other things that he had misappropriated funds
from Ruby clients by issuing fraudulent management fee requests, and obtained an
emergency asset freeze and a permanent injunction. SEC v. Andrew J. Franz, 5:12-cv00642 (N.D. Ohio). After an evidentiary hearing, in June 2012 the Court made findings
of fact, held that Andrew Franz had violated the antifraud provisions of the Exchange
Act and the Advisers Act, and entered a permanent injunction against further violations
of those provisions. On March 15, 2013, the Commission barred Andrew Franz from the
securities industry by declaring as final an initial decision by ALJ Cameron Elliot dated
January 18, 2013.
5.
On July 23, 2013, Andrew Franz pled guilty to charges of wire fraud, tax
fraud, and violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Sections 206(1) and (2) of
the Advisers Act. U.S. v. Andrew J. Franz, 1:13-cr-00331 (N.D. Ohio). On October 23,
2013, Andrew Franz was sentenced to 57 months imprisonment and ordered to pay
3

$357,069 in restitution and an additional $245,352 (plus penalties and interest) to the IRS
for his income tax violations.
FACTS
Andrew Franz misappropriated over $490,000 from Ruby clients.
6.
From 2007 through early 2011, Andrew Franz misappropriated over
$490,000 from approximately 50 Ruby client accounts via fraudulent management fee
and redemption requests. The majority of these fraudulently withdrawn funds were
initially deposited into Andrew Franz’s bank accounts; a smaller portion of the stolen
funds was initially deposited into Ruby’s bank accounts.
7.
Ruby clients’ funds were primarily invested in variable annuities or
mutual funds. Most Ruby clients signed limited powers of attorney permitting Ruby to
request management fees directly from their securities accounts. Andrew Franz and
Ruby’s office manager were responsible for calculating and requesting Ruby’s
management fees directly from the securities custodians, which was performed
quarterly. These fees were calculated based on the ending balance of the client’s account
as of the last day of the previous quarter. Most Ruby clients were charged .5% of the
quarterly ending balance once per quarter.
8.
Andrew Franz’s role in the fee request process allowed him to easily
misappropriate client funds. In some instances, Andrew Franz provided false client
account balances to the Ruby office manager who calculated fees. Sometimes, after the
office manager calculated the appropriate management fees and prepared the fee
request, Andrew Franz changed the amounts before submitting the request to the
annuity or mutual fund company. In other instances, after the office manager prepared
and submitted the legitimate management fee request, Andrew Franz submitted
additional fraudulent management fee requests days or weeks later.
9.
In some instances, Andrew Franz submitted fee requests that instructed
that checks be mailed to his home address instead of Ruby’s office address. In addition,
Andrew Franz was able to easily intercept management fee checks mailed to Ruby
because he was the primary person who opened mail at Ruby and because many checks
were addressed “Attn: Andrew Franz.”
10.
Starting in approximately 2006, George Franz had Andrew Franz begin to
take over Ruby’s operations. George Franz intended to transfer the business to Andrew
Franz, since George Franz expected to retire in the next few years.

4

11.
From 2006 through 2011, George Franz spent several months a year in
Florida, where he had a residence. During those months, Andrew Franz was present at
Ruby’s offices and managed Ruby’s daily operations. Even when George Franz was in
Ohio, he often worked from home, and let Andrew Franz continue to manage Ruby’s
daily operations.
12.
From at least 2006 through 2011, George Franz had sole supervisory
responsibility over Andrew Franz as an associated person of Ruby.
From at least January 2007 through early 2011, George Franz became
aware of numerous signs of, and instances of, fraud by Andrew Franz.
13.
Andrew Franz’s repeated misappropriation of client assets was made
possible by George Franz’s failure to supervise him or take any action to stop him. From
January 2007 through early 2011, George Franz became aware of numerous indications
of fraud by Andrew Franz.
14.
By January 2007, George Franz was aware that in 2006, Andrew Franz had
stolen approximately $12,500 in management fee checks due to Ruby. In response,
George Franz instructed Ruby’s tax preparer to issue an IRS form 1099 from the
company to Andrew Franz for these stolen funds. George Franz did not disclose this
information to Ruby clients or take steps to prevent additional fraud by Andrew Franz.
15.
In approximately April 2009, George Franz learned that Andrew Franz
had stolen hundreds of thousands of dollars from the Marie Franz Trust, a family trust
for which George Franz served as trustee. The trust assets had been invested in mutual
funds. George Franz learned that Andrew Franz had caused the mutual fund company
that held the assets of the trust to issue checks to Ruby’s address or to George Franz’s
home. Andrew Franz then obtained the checks from Ruby’s mail or his father’s mailbox.
16.
In approximately August 2009, George Franz learned that Andrew Franz
had stolen numerous other management fee checks issued to Ruby. George Franz also
learned that Andrew Franz had diverted a large portion of the stolen funds from
management fee checks and the trust into Ruby’s bank accounts disguised as revenue,
in order to conceal Ruby’s dwindling income from his father. George Franz did not
disclose this information to Ruby clients.
17.
In approximately August 2009, George Franz instructed Ruby’s
accountant and tax preparer to conduct a review of Andrew Franz’s personal bank
account to determine how much Andrew Franz had stolen and what he did with the
stolen funds. George Franz asked for this review because the stolen funds deposited

5

into Ruby’s accounts, disguised as legitimate revenue, caused Ruby and George Franz
to overreport income and thus to overpay income tax.
18.
In or before December 2009, George Franz learned that Andrew Franz had
stolen a total of about $800,000 from the Marie Franz Trust from approximately August
2007 through April 2009, depositing these funds into his personal bank account.
19.
In or before December 2009, George Franz learned that from
approximately November 2007 through June 2009, Andrew Franz had diverted a total
of approximately $170,000 in management fee checks issued from securities custodians
to Ruby, depositing them into his personal bank account. George Franz did not disclose
this information to Ruby clients.
20.
In or before December 2009, Ruby’s accountant told George Franz that
someone should analyze whether the diverted checks withdrawn from client accounts
were properly requested (and thus constituted thefts from Ruby) or fraudulently
requested (and thus constituted thefts from Ruby clients). George Franz assured the
accountant that he would personally perform this analysis. Some of these checks had
been fraudulently requested.
21.
In or before December 2009, George Franz learned that from August 2007
through July 2009, Andrew Franz had written checks from his personal bank account to
Ruby totaling approximately $684,000, primarily from the stolen funds. These personal
checks were reported as income in Ruby’s accounting records, based on
misrepresentations by Andrew Franz to Ruby personnel or Ruby’s outside accountant.
22.
In or before December 2009, George Franz also learned of various other
suspicious transactions in Andrew Franz’s personal bank account, including a check
written to a mutual fund company for “overpayment of fees,” various checks to
Andrew Franz’s company, Wingate, Inc., and checks written directly to Ruby clients.
23.
In approximately December 2009, George Franz told Ruby’s accountant
that he was taking steps to make sure Andrew Franz did not repeat the conduct
uncovered by the accountant. In particular, George Franz told the accountant that
Andrew Franz was no longer permitted to touch incoming mail at Ruby and that he
was no longer permitted to be involved in any deposits into Ruby’s bank accounts.
Despite these representations, Andrew Franz continued handling incoming mail at
Ruby and making deposits into Ruby’s bank accounts without consequence. George
Franz did not disclose this information to Ruby clients.

6

24.
Meanwhile, starting in approximately July 2009, George Franz became
aware of numerous suspicious problems involving management fee checks withdrawn
from Ruby client accounts. George Franz did not disclose this information to Ruby
clients.
25.
For example, in approximately July or August 2009, George Franz learned
that Ruby was receiving management fee checks in the mail drawn on Ruby client
accounts that had not been requested by Ruby. George Franz learned that some Ruby
clients appeared to have been billed twice for management fees for the same quarter,
when Ruby had only asked for fees once.
26.
In approximately October 2009, George Franz learned that on several
occasions, there were management fee checks drawn on Ruby client accounts that had
not yet been received by Ruby in the mail, even though the securities custodian
reported that the checks had already been cashed. George Franz also learned that
Andrew Franz had falsely claimed that the securities custodian had told him the checks
had not yet been cashed. George Franz did not disclose this information to Ruby clients.
27.
On numerous occasions in 2010, George Franz learned of other
irregularities regarding the management fee billing process and checks drawn on Ruby
client accounts.
28.
For example, in August 2010, George Franz learned that a total of
$4,732.97 in unauthorized management fee checks had been withdrawn from four Ruby
client accounts. George Franz also learned that these fee checks had subsequently gone
missing. In September 2010, George Franz learned that three of these unauthorized
checks had been deposited into Andrew Franz’s bank accounts.
29.
In October 2010, George Franz wrote checks from Ruby’s checking
account to these four clients’ accounts to reimburse the clients for the $4,732.97 in total
unauthorized fees. On the same day, Andrew Franz wrote a check to Ruby for
$4,732.97. George Franz was aware of this check. Had George Franz not reimbursed
these Ruby client accounts, these clients would have been more likely to discover that
funds had been stolen. George Franz did not disclose this information to Ruby clients.
30.
In January 2011, SEC examination staff conducted an examination of
Ruby’s offices and operations regarding Andrew Franz’s May 2010 forgery of four
client signatures on fee requests for the clients’ accounts (for fees legitimately owed to
Ruby). During this examination, Andrew Franz was present in Ruby’s offices and
George Franz was at his home in Florida. As part of this examination, George Franz
participated in SEC interviews via telephone.

7

31.
During the January 2011 examination, SEC examination staff asked
George Franz if he was aware of any potential violations of the securities laws other
than Andrew Franz’s forgery of the four client signatures in May 2010. George Franz
lied, claiming that he was not aware of any other potential violations. In reality, George
Franz was aware of those instances noted above.
32.
From approximately January 2011 through May 2011, George Franz
became aware of numerous additional instances of management fee checks withdrawn
from Ruby client accounts going missing, and numerous additional instances of
Andrew Franz lying about missing management fee checks. George Franz did not
disclose this information to Ruby clients.
33.
From approximately January 2011 through March 2011, the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) made attempts to schedule an On the Record
Interview (“OTR”) of Andrew Franz in connection with irregularities FINRA had
discovered as part of their oversight of Andrew Franz’s associated broker-dealer.
FINRA scheduled an OTR for Andrew Franz for March 4, 2011, but he did not appear.
As a result, Andrew Franz’s broker-dealer promptly terminated him. After George
Franz learned this, he failed to disclose it to clients or remove Andrew Franz as the
listed broker on Ruby’s client accounts until many months later.
34.
Andrew Franz finally appeared for an OTR with FINRA on April 7, 2011,
during which he admitted to numerous instances of fraud and theft from Ruby clients.
On May 2, 2011, Andrew Franz signed an Acceptance, Waiver, and Consent (“AWC”)
with FINRA, in which he acknowledged some of his misconduct and consented to
being barred from association with any FINRA broker-dealer. This AWC was accepted
by FINRA on May 24, 2011.
35.
On April 29, 2011, George Franz informed Andrew Franz that he was
terminated from Ruby as of May 31, 2011, after which he would not be allowed entry
into Ruby’s offices. Between April 29, 2011 and May 31, 2011, Andrew Franz
misappropriated another $15,000 from Ruby clients. George Franz told other Ruby
personnel about Andrew Franz’s termination. Despite this, Andrew Franz continued to
come in to the office and conduct Ruby business until approximately June or July 2011.
Respondents took no meaningful steps to prevent further thefts by Andrew Franz.
36.
At all relevant times, George Franz was the Chief Compliance Officer of
Ruby. However, George Franz and Ruby failed to adopt and implement written policies
and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act.

8

37.
George Franz and Ruby failed to adopt written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to prevent violations, even after learning that Andrew Franz had,
among other things, stolen Ruby client funds. Before August 2010, Ruby had no
compliance procedures at all. Starting in August 2010, Ruby Corporation enacted
compliance procedures relating to trading on nonpublic information. These were the
only compliance procedures implemented by Ruby prior to Andrew Franz’s
termination. During the relevant time, Ruby had no procedures reasonably designed to
prevent violations of the Advisers Act in connection with the withdrawal of advisory
client funds. Moreover, there were no compliance reviews of associated persons of
Ruby or of Ruby’s compliance procedures until January 2012.
38.
Respondents owed a fiduciary duty to all Ruby clients to act in their best
interest. Despite everything George Franz learned about Andrew Franz’s thefts,
including but not limited to the instances described above, he did not disclose these
issues to Ruby clients or take any meaningful steps to protect client assets from further
thefts until Andrew’s admissions to FINRA in April 2011.
39.
Until at least approximately April 2011, Respondents did not: (1) remove
Andrew Franz and deny him access to Ruby’s offices; (2) remove Andrew Franz’s
access to client accounts; (3) remove Andrew Franz as broker of record on client
accounts; (4) inform securities custodians for client accounts to not accept instruction
from Andrew Franz on behalf of client accounts; or (5) adopt and implement written
policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of the Advisers Act
specific to Andrew Franz’s means of committing fraud.
40.
After Andrew Franz was terminated from his broker dealer and barred
from association with any FINRA broker-dealer, George Franz – to ensure that Ruby
was paid its management fees – caused Andrew Franz’s signature stamp to be used on
management fee requests to securities custodians.
George Franz failed to inform Ruby clients that
Andrew Franz had stolen from their accounts.
41.
On numerous occasions, George Franz became aware that Andrew Franz
had caused fraudulent withdrawals out of numerous client accounts and
misappropriated the stolen funds. Rather than disclose to clients that Andrew Franz
had stolen from their securities accounts, George Franz instead concealed the thefts by
secretly replenishing the victim clients’ accounts. For example, from October 2010
through April 2012, George Franz wrote 7 checks totaling approximately $28,000 into
the accounts of 22 different Ruby clients. He never disclosed to these clients that their
funds had been stolen or that they had been repaid.
9

George Franz lied to certain Ruby clients about Andrew Franz’s
thefts from their accounts and Ruby’s repayments into their accounts.
42.
From approximately May 2011 through approximately July 2013, George
Franz told numerous Ruby clients that Andrew Franz had not taken any funds from
Ruby clients. He knew that was false.
43.
George Franz told certain victims that the withdrawals from their
accounts were due to mistake, when he knew they had been taken intentionally by
Andrew Franz. For example, Andrew Franz issued quarterly management fee requests
eleven times during 2010 for the account of one Ruby client (“Client A”), diverting
$13,552 in fraudulent fee payments into his personal bank account. George Franz
learned in March 2011 that these funds were taken fraudulently.
44.
In approximately late March 2011, George Franz falsely told Client A that
Andrew Franz had caused the $13,552 to be withdrawn from her account by mistake,
and that the client’s account was being reimbursed. George Franz knew that Andrew
Franz had intentionally caused the withdrawals. On March 30, 2011, George Franz
mailed a check for $13,552 from Ruby’s bank account to the securities custodian for
Client A’s account, instructing that the funds be deposited into the client’s account. That
same day, Andrew Franz obtained a cashier’s check from his bank payable to George
Franz for $13,552, reimbursing him for the funds repaid to Client A’s account.
45.
From at least 2007 through at least July 2013, George Franz also made
numerous other material misrepresentations and omissions to Ruby clients regarding,
among other things, Andrew Franz’s fraud, George Franz’s knowledge of that fraud,
and the actions George Franz took after learning of that fraud.
During the SEC’s August 2011 examination, George Franz lied to
SEC examination staff about what he knew and when he knew it.
46.
During the first week of August 2011, SEC examination staff conducted an
examination of Ruby in connection with the misconduct uncovered by FINRA and its
action against Andrew Franz, including Andrew Franz’s thefts from Client A and other
Ruby clients in 2010 and early 2011. During this examination, the SEC interviewed
George Franz.
47.
George Franz told SEC examination staff that he first learned of any
potential misconduct by Andrew Franz (other than thefts from the Marie Franz Trust
and the four forged client signatures in May 2010) in early 2011. George Franz also told
SEC examination staff that once he learned of this misconduct, he immediately fired

10

Andrew Franz from Ruby. These were lies.
48.
During the August 2011 examination, the SEC examination staff
interviewed George Franz regarding instances of fraud by Andrew Franz that were
known to the SEC staff at the time. During the August 2011 examination, the SEC
examination staff asked George Franz if he was aware of any potential violations of the
securities laws, other than those discussed during the examination. George Franz
answered that he was not. This was not true; he was aware of numerous other
indications of fraud by Andrew Franz, including but not limited to the instances noted
above.
After the SEC’s August 2011 examination and during the early stages
of the SEC’s subsequent investigation, George Franz destroyed evidence
of Andrew Franz’s thefts, including Ruby Corporation records.
49.
In mid-August 2011, George Franz and his attorney met with SEC
enforcement and examination staff to discuss the SEC’s investigation, which at that time
had only involved instances of fraud by Andrew Franz in 2010 and 2011. During this
meeting, the SEC staff told George Franz that he had a fiduciary responsibility to Ruby
clients and an obligation to investigate Andrew Franz’s thefts to determine the full
extent of his fraud. The SEC staff told George Franz that at a minimum he should
investigate the prior five years of transactions, such as via a forensic accounting, to
ensure that there were not additional undiscovered thefts by Andrew Franz. The SEC
staff also told George Franz that the SEC would continue to investigate Andrew Franz’s
fraud, including potential fraud prior to 2010.
50.
At all relevant times, Ruby was obligated under Section 204(a) of the
Advisers Act and Rule 204-2 thereunder to maintain and preserve all books and records
relating to Ruby’s operations, including revenue, for a total of five years after the end of
the year to which the record relates. As of November 2011, Ruby was obligated to
maintain and preserve all such books and records for the time frame January 1, 2006
through November 2011.
51.
In November 2011, George Franz knowingly caused numerous Ruby
documents to be destroyed. Among other records, George Franz caused to be destroyed
records related to Ruby’s quarterly management fee requests to mutual fund and
annuity companies. These destroyed records related to transactions from at least
January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2009. These destroyed records included
numerous documents reflecting misconduct by Andrew Franz.

11

52.
George Franz was aware that Ruby’s records for the time period prior to
2010 contained evidence of additional fraud by Andrew Franz, as well as evidence of
George Franz’s knowledge of Andrew Franz’s fraud prior to 2010. On various occasions
in 2008 and 2009, Ruby’s former office manager informed George Franz of these
instances of potential fraud by Andrew Franz as she became aware of them, and
showed George Franz documents reflecting such fraud. Ruby’s former office manager
maintained additional copies of some of the evidence of Andrew Franz’s potential fraud
prior to 2010 that had also been located in Ruby’s records prior to their destruction.
George Franz commissioned a sham accounting engagement that he
used to mislead numerous Ruby clients.
53.
From September 2011 through August 2012, Respondents engaged an
accounting firm to perform an agreed-upon procedures engagement regarding
management fees charged by Ruby ("engagement"), supposedly in an effort to identify
all instances of misappropriation by Andrew Franz. This engagement was
commissioned in response to the SEC’s discussions with George Franz in mid-August
2011 described in paragraph 49 above.
54.
This engagement consisted of performing certain specified procedures,
and included no attestation by the accounting firm as to whether Ruby clients were
defrauded or overbilled. In addition, as George Franz was aware, the particular
procedures constituting this engagement could not be expected to uncover the types of
transactions by which Andrew Franz typically misappropriated funds from Ruby
clients. Moreover, the engagement only involved the time period of January 1, 2010
through June 30, 2011. Finally, George Franz substantially misled the accounting firm
and withheld information material to their analysis in order to influence the results of
the analysis. For example, George Franz provided the accounting firm with a
fraudulently altered check and lied to the accounting firm about the check’s purpose.
As a result, the vast majority of Andrew Franz's fraud was not identified in the
engagement.
55.
Despite knowledge of the above facts and the sham nature of the exercise,
George Franz told numerous Ruby clients that an audit had been performed of all Ruby
client accounts. George Franz misled numerous Ruby clients (including victims of
Andrew Franz’s fraud), causing them to believe that if they had not been identified as a
victim of the audit, they could take comfort that they had not been a victim.

12

During the Division’s investigation, Respondents
provided fabricated documents to the Division.
56.
During a September 11, 2012 investigative testimony, George Franz
testified that he had informed all known victims of Andrew Franz’s fraud that they had
been victimized, either verbally or in writing.
57.
In November 2012, in response to SEC subpoenas, Respondents produced
to the SEC letters from George Franz to four Ruby clients who had funds stolen by
Andrew Franz and whose accounts were later reimbursed by Ruby. These four letters
stated that Andrew Franz had stolen the clients’ funds and that the amounts were being
repaid by Ruby. Three of these letters referenced specific conversations between George
Franz and the client regarding Andrew Franz’s misconduct.
58.
None of these four clients ever received these letters, and the
conversations referenced in three of the letters never took place.
59.
In addition to these four letters, Respondents produced to the SEC a letter
to another client (“Client B”) that the client never received. In an April 14, 2011 letter,
Client B complained to George Franz that in March 2010 her account had been
transferred out of an existing variable annuity without her consent, causing an
approximately $6,000 early surrender charge to the account. In her complaint letter,
Client B told George Franz that throughout 2010, Andrew Franz had repeatedly lied to
her about the surrender charge, falsely claiming it was a mistake that would be repaid.
60.
In her complaint letter to George Franz, Client B threatened to report the
matter to FINRA and the SEC if George Franz did not reimburse her for the surrender
charge. In a response letter on April 29, 2011, George Franz claimed that he had
previously informed Client B of the surrender charge in a March 2010 meeting, that he
had previously sent Client B a letter disclosing the charge in March 2010, and that the
client had agreed to the account transfer in that March 2010 meeting despite being
aware of the surrender charge. These were lies.
61.
In reality, Andrew Franz had forged Client B’s signature on the account
transfer form. Client B never received the March 2010 disclosure letter, nor did she
participate in any March 2010 meeting. George Franz simply fabricated a story in which
Client B – with full knowledge of the surrender charge – had consented to the account
transfer, and then fabricated a letter to support that story. George Franz took these
steps to protect Andrew Franz and Ruby from a potential FINRA or SEC investigation
as a result of Client B’s complaint.

13

62.
Client B’s April 14, 2011 complaint letter, George Franz’s April 29, 2011
response letter, and the fabricated March 2010 letter were produced to the SEC
pursuant to subpoena as part of Client B’s client file maintained at Ruby.
63.
These five fabricated letters were not the only times that George Franz
“papered the file” with unsent letters to clients in order to defend against claims that he
lied or withheld material facts. In 2004 and 2005, George Franz told three potential
clients that Ruby only received a fee if the clients’ securities account managed by Ruby
gained in value, and that Ruby’s fee would be a percentage of that gain. This was false;
Ruby was paid 2% of the clients’ portfolio value each year regardless of whether the
account gained or lost value. After the clients complained about these undisclosed fees
a year later, George Franz claimed that he previously disclosed these fees, and
specifically cited two letters he supposedly wrote to the clients. The clients never
received these letters.
George Franz lied under oath during the investigation.
64.
During investigative testimony before the SEC enforcement staff, George
Franz made numerous statements that were false.
65.
For example, during investigative testimony on September 11, 2012,
George Franz testified that he had disclosed to all known victims of Andrew Franz’s
fraud the fact that they had been victims of misappropriation from their accounts. This
testimony was false.
66.
Further, during investigative testimony on March 6, 2013, George Franz
testified that he had mailed the letters referenced in paragraphs 57 through 61 above,
and that he had made the disclosures to clients referenced in those letters. This
testimony was false.
Respondents filed a false SEC Form ADV Part 2A.
67.
On or around April 16, 2012, Ruby filed a Form ADV Part 2A (dated
November 30, 2011), disclosing that Andrew Franz was a former associated person of
Ruby, but was removed from the firm because he had consented to a FINRA bar based
on allegations of misappropriation, and stating, in Item 9:
[Andrew] Franz: (1) misappropriated funds belonging to Ruby
Corporation and its clients in violation of NASD Conduct Rule 2110 and (2)
forged an investor’s signature and misappropriated his funds in violation
of FINRA Rule 2010. This conduct was unknown to George B. Franz III and
Ruby Corporation.
14

68.
This Form ADV Part 2A was filed with the Commission and provided to
Ruby clients.
69.
The claim that “this conduct was unknown to George B. Franz III and
Ruby Corporation” was false at the time this Form ADV Part 2A was filed. At the time
this form was filed, George Franz knew that this claim was false.
VIOLATIONS
70.
As a result of the conduct described above, Andrew Franz violated Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent
conduct in connection with any purchase or sale of security.
71.
As a result of the conduct described above, Andrew Franz violated
Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibit fraudulent conduct by an
investment adviser.
72.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz and Ruby
Corporation failed reasonably to supervise Andrew Franz.
73.
As a result of the conduct described above, Ruby Corporation willfully
violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.
74.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz and Ruby
Corporation willfully violated Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
75.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz willfully aided
and abetted and caused Andrew Franz’s and Ruby Corporation’s violations of Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder and Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of
the Advisers Act.
76.
As a result of the conduct described above, Ruby Corporation willfully
violated Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder, which among
other things require that investment advisers registered with the Commission adopt
and implement policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of
the Advisers Act.
77.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz willfully aided
and abetted and caused Ruby Corporation’s violation of Section 206(4) of the Advisers
Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder.

15

78.
As a result of the conduct described above, Ruby Corporation willfully
violated Section 204(a) of the Advisers Act and Rule 204-2 thereunder, which require
that investment advisers registered with the Commission maintain and preserve certain
books and records.
79.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz willfully aided
and abetted and caused Ruby Corporation’s violation of Section 204(a) of the Advisers
Act and Rule 204-2 thereunder.
80.
As a result of the conduct described above, Ruby Corporation willfully
violated Section 207 of the Advisers Act, which makes it “unlawful for any person
willfully to make any untrue statement of a material fact in any registration application
or report filed with the Commission . . . or willfully to omit to state in any such
application or report any material fact which is required to be stated therein.”
81.
As a result of the conduct described above, George Franz willfully
violated, and aided and abetted and caused Ruby Corporation’s violation of, Section
207 of the Advisers Act.
UNDERTAKING
82.
Respondent Ruby Corporation undertakes, within 14 calendar days of the
entry of the Order, to withdraw its request dated December 14, 2012, for a hearing in
response to the Commission’s Notice of Intention to Cancel Registrations of Certain
Investment Advisers Pursuant to Section 203(h) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940,
Release No. IA-3490 (Oct. 19, 2012).
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public
interest to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Joint Offer.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 203(e), (f), and (k) of the Advisers Act, Section
21C of the Exchange Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, it is hereby
ORDERED that:
A.
Respondents George Franz and Ruby Corporation shall cease and desist
from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 10(b) of
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections 204, 206(1), 206(2), 206(4) and
207 of the Advisers Act and Rules 204-2 and 206(4)-7 promulgated thereunder.

16

B.
Respondent George Franz be, and hereby is barred from association with
any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor,
transfer agent, or nationally recognized statistical rating organization, and is prohibited
from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member of an advisory board,
investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter for, a registered investment
company or affiliated person of such investment adviser, depositor, or principal
underwriter.
Any reapplication for association by Respondent Franz will be subject to the
applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be
conditioned upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any
or all of the following: (a) any disgorgement ordered against Respondent Franz, whether
or not the Commission has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b)
any arbitration award related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission
order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a customer, whether or not
related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; and (d) any
restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
C.
The registration of Respondent Ruby Corporation as an investment adviser
be, and hereby is revoked.
D.
Respondent Ruby Corporation shall comply with the undertaking set forth
in Paragraph 82 of this Order.
E.
Respondents George Franz and Ruby Corporation shall jointly and
severally, within 14 calendar days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of
$394,452 2 and prejudgment interest of $30,548 (together “the Distribution Fund”) and
civil penalties of $675,000, to the Securities and Exchange Commission. If timely payment
is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1) Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which
will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 3

The amount of disgorgement ordered reflects prior payments by the Respondents to
victims totaling $92,938.
3 The minimum threshold for transmission of payment electronically is $1,000,000. For amounts
below this threshold, Respondents must make payments pursuant to option (2) or (3) above.
2

17

(2) Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
(3) Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States
postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission
and hand-delivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
George Franz and Ruby Corporation as Respondents in these proceedings, and the file
number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must
be sent to Robert J. Burson, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago, IL, 60604.
F.
After receipt of Respondents’ payment of disgorgement and prejudgment
interest, the Commission shall within 90 days, make payments to Clients 1 through 43 as
set forth in Exhibit 1 hereto. The amount of each of these payments represents the dollar
amount of each client’s net loss plus reasonable interest as calculated by the Commission
staff. After the Commission makes these payments, any remaining funds consisting of
Respondent’s disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and penalties paid, shall remain on
deposit with the Commission pending further approval by the Commission of (1) a plan
to distribute some or all of the remaining funds pursuant to the Commission’s Rules on
Fair Funds and Disgorgement Plans or (2) the transfer of remaining funds to the U.S.
Treasury. Commission staff will seek the appointment a tax administrator for the above
payments to clients (as well as any additional payments that may be made in the event a
plan of distribution is approved) as they constitute a qualified settlement fund (“QSF”)
under section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), 26 U.S.C. § 468B(g), and
related regulations, 26 C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5. Taxes, if any, and related
administrative expenses will be paid from the remaining funds. Regardless of whether
any Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties
pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all
purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty,
Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are
entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory
damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this
action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty
18

Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the
amount of the Penalty Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the
Commission directs. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and
shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this
proceeding. For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a private
damages action brought against a Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors
based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the
Commission in this proceeding.
By the Commission.

Lynn M. Powalski
Deputy Secretary

19

