UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15654
____________________________________
:
In the Matter of
:
:
G-TRADE SERVICES LLC,
:
CONVERGEX GLOBAL MARKETS
:
LIMITED, and CONVERGEX
:
EXECUTION SOLUTIONS LLC
:
:
Respondents.
:
____________________________________ :
PROPOSED PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION
1. Background. This Proposed Plan of Distribution (the “Plan”) has been developed pursuant
to the Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections
15(b) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Section 203(e) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a
Cease-and-Desist Order against G-Trade Services LLC (“G-Trade”), ConvergEx Global Markets
Limited and ConvergEx Execution Solutions LLC (“CES”) (collectively, “Respondents”) (the
“Order”) (Exchange Act Release No. 71128 (Dec. 18, 2013)). This Plan is subject to approval by
the Commission, and the Commission retains jurisdiction over the implementation of the Plan.
In the Order, the Commission found that Respondents engaged in a fraudulent scheme to
conceal their practice of unnecessarily routing certain global trading and transition management
customer1 orders to an offshore affiliate in order to charge undisclosed mark-ups and mark-downs
(“trading profits” or “TP”), in addition to disclosed commissions on those orders. The scheme
involved the taking of TP from customers in connection with orders in securities traded in U.S.
markets (“U.S. securities”), as well as securities traded in non-U.S. markets (“non-U.S. securities”).
As a result of this conduct, the Commission found that the Respondents willfully violated Section
10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and that Respondents G-Trade and CES
willfully violated Section 15(c)(1) of the Exchange Act. The Commission ordered the
Respondents to pay disgorgement of $79,802,448, prejudgment interest of $7,621,981 and a civil
monetary penalty of $20,000,000. The Order created a Fair Fund pursuant to Section 308(a) of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended. In accordance with the Order, ConvergEx Group, LLC,
The term “customer” as used herein shall refer to those entities that had a direct contractual
account or trading relationship with one or more of the Respondents.
1

on behalf of the Respondents, paid a total of $107,424,429 into an escrow account. This amount,
plus the $1,228,592 arising from the related actions against additional respondents2, will constitute
the corpus of the Fair Fund from which funds may be withdrawn and distributed in accordance
with the Plan. The corpus may be increased prior to distribution by additional payments arising
from related actions against additional respondents that the Commission may order to be
aggregated in the Fair Fund.
2. Scope of Distribution; Eligible Fair Fund Recipients. The purpose of this distribution is to
refund a portion of the TP taken from Respondents’ customers between October 2, 2006 and
December 31, 2011 (the “relevant period”). The proposed distribution methodology, described in
Section 9, provides full refunds of TP for orders placed during the relevant period in U.S. securities
and pro rata refunds of TP for orders in non-U.S. securities. The Commission staff anticipates that
refunds of TP relating to orders in non-U.S. securities will cover substantially less than half of the
TP taken on those orders. The Order provides that the Fund Administrator will develop a
distribution plan with the assistance and cooperation of Respondents. The Order also provides that
the Plan will include a methodology to identify and compensate affected current and former
customers of Respondents from whom TP was taken during the relevant period. The Order
obligated Respondents to pay the funds no later than 10 days from the entry of the Order. The
Respondents tendered funds to the Fair Fund on December 17, 2013. This Plan sets forth the
methodology to be used in paying the refunds of TP and requires Respondents to make refunds of
TP to Respondents’ customers.
3. Fund Administrator. Jennifer S. Leete, an Assistant Director in the Division of
Enforcement, is proposed as the fund administrator for the Plan (“Fund Administrator”). The Fund
Administrator will administer the Plan in accordance with Rule 1105 of the Commission’s Rules
on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans. As a Commission employee, the Fund Administrator shall
receive no compensation, other than her regular salary as a Commission employee, for her services
in administering the Fair Fund. No bond shall be required because the Fund Administrator is a
Commission employee. In carrying out her duties, the Fund Administrator may be assisted by
Commission staff acting under her supervision, as well as by the Respondents or their agents. The
Fund Administrator will, among other things: oversee and supervise the Respondents’ assistance in
administering the Fair Fund; receive, review, approve and submit to the Commission a final
accounting prepared by the Respondents; cooperate with the Respondents in providing the
information necessary to accomplish income tax compliance; and cause the Fair Fund to be
distributed in accordance with this Plan.
4. No Notice or Claim Process. The identity of harmed customers and the amount of TP taken
from them during the relevant period will be determined from the books and records of the
Respondents. In connection therewith, a third party consultant retained by Respondents will
2

The related actions to date are In the Matter of Jonathan Samuel Daspin, Administrative
Proceeding File No. 3-15652 (Exchange Act Rel. No. 71126 (Dec. 18, 2013)), and In the Matter
of Thomas Lekargeren, Administrative Proceeding File No. 3-15653 (Exchange Act Rel. No.
71127 (Dec. 18, 2013)).
2

review the data and verify Respondents’ allocation of the Fair Fund in accordance with the
distribution methodology set forth in Paragraph 9. Accordingly, the Fair Fund is not being
distributed according to a claims-made process, so the procedures for providing notice and for
making and approving claims are not applicable.
5. Qualified Settlement Fund. The Fair Fund constitutes a Qualified Settlement Fund (“QSF”)
under Section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. § 468B(g), and related regulations,
26 C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5.
6. Tax Compliance. Respondents shall serve as the “administrator” of the QSF for tax
reporting and compliance purposes and may retain any professional services necessary or
appropriate. The costs and expenses of any such tax compliance responsibilities and professional
services, including information reporting and the payment of any taxes, penalties, and interest due,
shall be borne by Respondents and shall not be paid out of the Fair Fund. Payments to
Respondents’ customers shall be made from the assets of the Fair Fund plus income (in excess of
the Fair Fund’s income tax liability) it may earn from the date of deposit to a date agreed upon
between the Fund Administrator and Respondents. Respondents shall calculate or shall cause to be
calculated an estimated distributable amount (“EDA”) which shall allow for the payment of the
Fair Fund’s income tax obligations. The EDA shall be the balance from which the payments to
Respondents’ customers shall be made. Any tax withholding required on any payment to a
customer shall be deducted from the gross payment to be made to that customer. The source of the
gross payments to the Respondents’ customers and any tax withholding shall be the EDA and shall
not be separately funded by Respondents. The Fund Administrator will provide such information
and cooperation to Respondents as may be reasonably necessary for the Respondents to
accomplish their tax reporting, withholding and compliance responsibilities.
7. Control of Distribution Fund. The Commission has jurisdiction and control of the Fair
Fund and shall retain control of the assets of the Fair Fund until they are transferred from the
escrow account to a deposit account for distribution to harmed customers in accordance with
Section 9 below. The assets of the Fair Fund have been deposited into an escrow account at a bank
and, consistent with the terms of the escrow agreement, may only be disbursed in accordance with
the written authorization of the Commission.
8. Expenses of Administration. All fees and expenses of administering the Plan shall be paid
by the Respondents.
9. Distribution Methodology.
a. Overview; Intent. The proposed methodology set forth in this Section 9 (the
“Methodology”) provides Respondents’ customers full refunds of TP on U.S.
securities and pro rata refunds of TP on non-U.S. securities. Customers will receive
a payment in an amount equal to (i) the TP on U.S. securities, (ii) a pro rata portion
of the TP on non-U.S. securities, or, where applicable, both (i) and (ii).
3

b. De Minimis. Customers whose calculated payment is less than $1,000 U.S. will not
receive a payment in the distribution, provided that no de minimis threshold shall
apply to TP taken on orders originating from Respondents’ Global Transition
Management division.
c. Prior Refunds. In the event that Respondents shall have refunded TP to a harmed
customer, otherwise eligible to be compensated under the Plan, or made an
irrevocable deposit into a QSF approved by a court of competent jurisdiction for
such purpose (including, but not limited to, payments made in United States of
America v. ConvergEx Global Markets Limited, 2:13-cr-00810-JLL (D.N.J.)), prior
to the distribution, such payment shall be treated as if it had been made pursuant to
the Plan for purposes of all calculations hereunder, provided that Respondents have
provided written evidence reasonably acceptable to the Fund Administrator of such
previous payment or deposit into a QSF.
d. Calculation. Respondents shall submit to the Fund Administrator for validation and
approval an electronic spreadsheet identifying each customer that will receive a
payment, the amount of the payment and information sufficient for the Fund
Administrator to reasonably verify that the amount has been calculated correctly.
Respondents shall prepare the spreadsheet using information from their books and
records and include the following information for each customer: (i) the name of the
customer; (ii) the portfolio code associated with each order; (iii) the total TP on U.S.
securities; (iv) the total TP on non-U.S. securities; and (v) the pro rata amount of TP
taken on non-U.S. securities (calculated in accordance with Section 9.e. below).
e. Pro Rata Methodology. Payments attributable to TP on non-U.S. securities will be
calculated for each customer by multiplying the TP on non-U.S. securities for that
customer by a pro rata percentage based on the funds remaining in the Fair Fund.
Respondents will calculate the pro rata percentage by subtracting (x) the aggregate
amount of TP on U.S. securities to be paid to all customers in the distribution, from
(y) the total amount in the Fair Fund, and then dividing the resulting difference by
the total amount of TP on non-U.S. securities taken from all customers entitled to
receive a payment in the distribution.
f. Alternative Payment Arrangements. Unless otherwise approved by the Fund
Administrator in writing and covered by the disbursement authorized by the
Commission pursuant to Section 10, Respondents shall send distribution payments
to their direct customers of record for the trades on which TP was taken.
g. Fund Administrator’s Discretion Regarding Payments. The Fund Administrator
will have discretion to consider issues, raised by a customer eligible to receive
payments, concerning the feasibility of allocating distribution payments to its
underlying customers, and to make adjustments, consistent with the purposes of this
4

Plan and after consultation with Respondents, to the amount a customer or
customers will receive pursuant to the Methodology.
10. Validation and Approval of Disbursement of the Fair Fund. Upon written instruction from
the Fund Administrator, the Respondents will disburse the Fair Fund in accordance with the
Methodology, by mailing a check, by sending a payment by wire transfer, or by delivering
payment to each customer in such other alternative manner as may be approved in writing by the
Fund Administrator. Before instructing the Respondents to disburse the Fair Fund, the Fund
Administrator, with the assistance of Commission staff, will validate the applicable calculation,
verify that such calculation is in accordance with the Plan and the Methodology, and obtain
authorization from the Commission to disburse the Fair Fund pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6) of the
Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans. Within five (5) business days of
receipt of written instructions from the Fund Administrator to disburse the Fair Fund, Respondents
shall cause the Fair Fund to be disbursed. Respondents will notify the Fund Administrator of any
returned payments due to non-delivery, insufficient addresses, and/or other deficiencies.
Respondents shall exercise reasonable efforts in good faith to research and explain any errors that
result in non-delivery and, if requested by the Fund Administrator, submit a supplemental
calculation for payment of the returned items.
The Respondents are also responsible for accounting for all payments in a form acceptable
to the Fund Administrator. In the event that any distribution is in the form of a paper check in lieu
of an electronic transfer, each check will state on its face that it is valid for 90 days. After 90 days
from the date on the distribution check, Respondents shall notify the Fund Administrator of all
uncashed checks. Respondents will cancel/void all outstanding payments and, if applicable, return
the funds to the escrow account for the Fair Fund.
11. Approval of Fair Fund Disbursements. Before instructing the Respondents to disburse the
Fair Fund, the Fund Administrator will obtain authorization from the Commission to disburse the
Fair Fund pursuant to Rule 1101(b)(6) of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement
Plans.
12. Information Mailing to Accompany Payments. All payments shall be accompanied by a
written communication that includes: (a) a statement characterizing the distribution; (b) a
description of the tax information reporting required of the QSF and related tax consequences, if
required; (c) a statement that checks will be void after 90 days; (d) the name of a person to contact
with questions; (e) the amount of payment that represents TP on orders in U.S. securities; and (f)
the amount of payment that represents TP on orders in non-U.S. securities. Each customer
receiving a refund of TP taken in connection with an order in non-U.S. securities shall receive a
written communication stating the total amount of TP taken from such customer on transactions in
non-U.S. securities. Any such information letter or other communication about this Plan shall be
submitted to the Fund Administrator for review and written approval. The accompanying mailing
will clearly indicate that the money is being distributed from a Fair Fund established by the
Commission.
5

13. Notice of Proposed Plan and Opportunity for Comment. In accordance with Rule 1103 of
the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, notice of the Plan shall be
published in the SEC Docket and on the Commission’s website at www.sec.gov. Interested parties
may also obtain a written copy of the Plan by submitting a written request to Nancy Chase Burton,
Esq., United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
20549-5631. All persons who desire to comment on the Plan may submit their comments, in
writing, no later than thirty (30) days from the date of the Notice of Proposed Plan of Distribution:
(1) to the Office of the Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street,
NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090; (2) by using the Commission’s internet comment form
(www.sec.gov/litigation/admin.shtml); or (c) by sending an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov.
Comments submitted should include “Administrative Proceeding File Number 3-15654” in the
subject line. Comments received will be publicly available. Persons should submit only
information that they wish to make publicly available.
14. Final Accounting. During the first 10 days of each calendar quarter, the Respondents shall
submit an accounting of all monies earned or received and all monies spent in connection with the
administration of the Plan to the Fund Administrator, who will file it with the Commission, and
Respondents will submit a final accounting to the Fund Administrator, both accountings in a
format provided by the Commission staff. The Fund Administrator, with the assistance of the
Commission staff, shall review the final accounting, approve it, and submit it for approval by the
Commission prior to termination of the Fair Fund and discharge of the Fund Administrator.
15. Amendments and Procedural Deadline Extensions. The Fund Administrator shall take
reasonable and appropriate steps to cause the Fair Fund to be distributed by Respondents according
to the Plan. Where the Fund Administrator deems necessary, the Fund Administrator may
implement immaterial changes to the Plan to effectuate its general purposes. If a change is deemed
material by the Fund Administrator, Commission approval is required prior to implementation by
amending the Plan, which may be done upon the motion of any party, the Fund Administrator, or
upon the Commission’s own motion. For good cause shown, the Commission staff may extend
any of the procedural deadlines set forth in this Plan.
16. Assistance by Respondents. Respondents will assist the Fund Administrator and the
Commission staff by promptly providing requested information necessary for the administration
and implementation of the Plan.
17. Disposition of Undistributed Funds. After all assets have been distributed, any amounts
remaining in the Fair Fund shall constitute the Residual. The Residual may include distributions
from checks that have not been cashed or from checks that were not delivered or from funds
returned to the Fund Administrator or the Respondents. The Residual will be transferred to the
U.S. Treasury after the final accounting is approved by the Commission.
18. Termination of the Fair Fund. Upon completion of the distribution of the Fair Fund, the
Respondents shall make arrangements for the final payment of taxes and filing the final tax returns,
and the Fund Administrator shall submit a final accounting to the Commission. The Fair Fund shall
6

be eligible for termination, and the Fund Administrator shall be discharged, after all of the following
have occurred: (a) a final accounting, in the accounting format provided by the Commission staff,
has been submitted by the Fund Administrator for approval, and has been approved by, the
Commission; (b) all income taxes and other fees due and owing by the Fair Fund have been paid by
the Respondents; (c) all taxes withheld from distributions to customers have been tendered to the
appropriate tax agencies; (d) all expenses associated with the administration of the Fair Fund have
been paid by the Respondents; and (e) any amount remaining in the Fair Fund has been received by
the Commission. When the Commission has approved the final accounting, the Commission staff
shall arrange for the transfer of any amount remaining in the Fair Fund to the U.S. Treasury, and
shall seek an order from the Commission to approve the termination of the Fair Fund and discharge
the Fund Administrator.

7

