UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 76432 / November 12, 2015
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 4262 / November 12, 2015
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 31900 / November 12, 2015
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16955
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 21C OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
SECTIONS 203(e), 203(f) AND 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL
SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

In the Matter of
METIS WEALTH
ADVISORS, LLC and
JUAN R. MONTERMOSO,
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Sections 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”),
Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and
Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Metis
Wealth Advisors, LLC and Juan R. Montermoso (collectively, “Respondents”).
II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted an
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept. Solely for
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of
these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents
consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings

Pursuant to Sections 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sections 203(e), 203(f) and
203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act
of 1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order
(“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds that:
Respondents
1.
Juan R. Montermoso (“Montermoso”), age 43, is a resident of Issaquah,
Washington. He is a former Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) registered
representative who held Series 7, 24, 31, 63, and 65 licenses. From 2003 until July 2010,
Montermoso was associated sequentially with two different registered broker-dealers, subsequent to
which Montermoso contracted with a third registered broker-dealer for custodial, execution,
clearing and back-office services in connection with the investment advisory firm he formed in
2010: Metis Wealth Advisors, LLC. In November 2011, FINRA permanently barred Montermoso
for failing to respond to its requests for information pursuant to FINRA Rule 8210.
2.
Metis Wealth Advisors, LLC (“Metis”) was registered in Virginia as an investment
adviser during the period July 2010 through December 2010. Montermoso was Metis’s owner,
president, chief investment officer, and managing member. From July 2010 until June 2014,
Montermoso conducted an investment advisory business through Metis. From July 2010 until
December 2011, a registered broker-dealer executed transactions ordered by Montermoso in Metis
client accounts.
Background
3.
After working as a broker at two different firms for seven years, in July 2010
Montermoso began conducting investment advisory business through his newly-formed Metis
Wealth Advisors, LLC. Montermoso registered Metis as an investment adviser in Virginia and
transferred approximately 40 accounts to the new firm. He entered into an arrangement with a
broker-dealer to execute trades for Metis and provide back-office services to it.
4.
In September 2010, shortly after Montermoso formed Metis, one of his clients at his
previous firm, (“Client 1”), had a $28,000 portfolio containing securities that were traded on the
NYSE or NASDAQ. Client 1 told Montermoso she wanted to sell the investments and transfer the
proceeds to her savings account. Montermoso omitted to inform her that she could instruct her
brokerage firm—the one Montermoso had recently left—to sell the securities from her account and
remit the sale proceeds to her bank account. Instead, he persuaded Client 1 to transfer her account
to Metis so that he could “manage the liquidations after the transfer.” Montermoso assured her the
securities in the account would be liquidated and the sale proceeds transferred to her bank account,
all within a few days of the account being transferred. Client 1followed Montermoso’s advice and
transferred her account to Metis in September 2010.
2

5.
Contrary to Montermoso’s assurance, he did not immediately sell all of the
securities or send her the proceeds. He sold one of the securities in early October, but Client 1 did
not receive the first payment, a check for about one-third of the value of the account before the
transfer, until October 31, 2010. She received a second payment in December 2010. But this time
the payment did not come from Client 1’s brokerage account. Rather, Montermoso wired it from
his personal bank account. Montermoso made two more payments to Client 1 from his personal
bank account in February 2011—six months after she instructed him to liquidate her account. The
value of the account continued to decline due to the decline in value of underlying investments
and due to fees withdrawn by Metis’s back-office firm. Montermoso did not complete the sales
of the securities until August 2011, after which $5,812.95 remained in the account. Montermoso
ordered the liquidation of the securities in order to draw the remaining funds, which he deemed to
be an investment advisory fee and transfer them to his personal account. He then instructed the
broker-dealer to close the account. If Montermoso had liquidated Client 1’s account in September
2010, when ordered to do so, he would not have been entitled to this fee, and the client would have
received the full balance of her account at that time.
6.
On December 31, 2010, Metis’ investment advisory registration in Virginia lapsed
and Montermoso failed to renew it. Montermoso omitted to inform his clients that Metis’s
registration had lapsed, but continued to maintain his advisory relationship with Client 1 through
August 2011. He also continued to maintain his advisory relationship with his other clients
through December 2011, except in the case of Client 2, discussed below. In November 2011,
FINRA barred Montermoso after he failed to respond to its information request arising from a
dispute Montermoso had with a former client. Montermoso omitted to inform his clients of the
FINRA bar. In December 2011, after learning of these events, the broker-dealer with which Metis
contracted to execute its clients’ transactions terminated its relationship with Metis.
7.
Another Metis/Montermoso client, (“Client 2”), a retired widow, had for a number
of years been drawing from her account monthly cash distributions of $5,000 or more. By 2010,
however, her portfolio value had diminished to the point that her assets could not generate the cash
for distributions. Rather than informing Client 2 that she could not afford the distributions, in
September 2010 Metis and Montermoso began wiring her cash each month from Montermoso’s
personal bank account while leading her to believe that her own assets were the source of the
distributions. By June 2014, Montermoso had transferred more than $320,000 to Client 2. These
transfers of money led her to believe for over three years that she held assets that would support a
more extravagant lifestyle than she could in fact afford. Montermoso transferred an additional
$187,500 to Client 2 to settle her potential claims, such that the total that Montermoso transferred
to Client 2 from his personal account totaled more than $507,000.
8.
From 2012 until June 2014, Metis and Montermoso misled Client 2 into believing
that he was still a registered representative, that Metis was still a registered investment adviser, and
that she remained Metis’ investment advisory client. Specifically, he omitted to inform her that he
had been barred by FINRA, and continued his advisory relationship with her after November 2011.

3

9.
By July 2012, Client 2’s two brokerage accounts held assets worth $25,000 and
$67,000, respectively. At that time, Montermoso communicated to her that “[f]ortunately, we are
ahead of pace for the year which means I can afford to take additional cash over and above the
$5000 monthly withdrawal.” In the same communication, Montermoso told Client 2 that she had
another brokerage account worth $271,000, as well as a bond fund worth $68,000. Neither the
brokerage account nor the bond fund existed.
10.
To further the illusion that Client 2’s assets were generating the distributions,
Montermoso created a phantom brokerage account in the client’s name. He did so by providing
her with an Automated Customer Account Transfer Service (“ACATS”) form1 for the brokerage
firm to which her holdings were ostensibly being transferred, fabricating account statements and
periodically emailing them to her, as well as emailing her regarding the amount and nature of the
nonexistent holdings. The account statements, which bore the legend of Metis Wealth Advisors,
purported to reflect her securities holdings, the securities transactions through her account and its
value. The list of securities that appeared on the account statements was fictitious and the
securities transactions described in them never took place. The first fictitious account statement,
purporting to cover the period ended June 2012, reflected investments worth $333,000. A later
fictitious account statement—purporting to cover the period ended May 2014—reflected that
Client 2’s assets had grown dramatically in less than two years, to $624,000. During this period,
Metis and Montermoso continued to advise Client 2 on investing in, purchasing, or selling
securities and, in communications with her, misrepresented that Metis was still a registered
investment adviser.
11.
As a result of the conduct described above, Montermoso and Metis willfully
violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent
conduct in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.
12.
As a result of the conduct described above, Montermoso and Metis willfully
violated Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibit fraudulent conduct by an
investment adviser.
13.
As a result of the conduct described above, Montermoso willfully aided and abetted
and caused Metis’s violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder,
and Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibit fraudulent conduct in
connection with the purchase or sale of securities and prohibit fraudulent conduct by an investment
adviser, respectively.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offer.

1

ACATS is a system that facilitates the transfer of securities from one trading account to another at a different
brokerage firm or bank.

4

Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 21C of the Exchange Act, Sections 203(e), 203(f) and
203(k) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, it is hereby
ORDERED that:
A.
Respondents cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and Sections
206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
B.

Respondent Metis is censured; and
prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member
of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal
underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such
investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter.

C.

Respondent Montermoso be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser,
municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization; and
prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member
of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal
underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such
investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter.

D.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondents will be subject to the
applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned
upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the
following: (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondents, whether or not the Commission
has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the
conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization
arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for
the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or
not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order.
E.
Respondents shall, jointly and severally, pay disgorgement of $5,812.95, which
represents profits gained as a result of the conduct described herein, prejudgment interest of
$677.97 and civil penalties of $65,000.00 to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Payment
shall be made in the following installments:
1) Within 14 days of the entry of this Order, disgorgement of $5,812.95, prejudgment interest
of $677.97 and penalties of $17,872.73;
2) Within 180 days of the entry of this Order, penalties of $29,254.54; and
5

3) Within 365 days of the entry of this Order, penalties of $17,872.73.
If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire
outstanding balance of disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties, plus any additional
interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600, or pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due
and payable immediately, without further application. Payment must be made in one of the
following ways:
(1)

Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission,
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon
request;

(2)

Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or

(3)

Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange
Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:

Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Montermoso and Metis as Respondents in these proceedings, and the file number of these
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Stephen L.
Cohen, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE,
Washington, DC 20549-5553.
F.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair
Fund is created for the disgorgement, interest, and penalties referenced in paragraph E above.
Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil
money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all
purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty,
Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled
to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the
amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If
the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they
shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the
Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and
Exchange Commission. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall
not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in these proceedings. For
6

purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a private damages action brought
against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts
as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in these proceedings.
G.
After receipt of the disgorgement, interest, and penalties referenced in paragraph E
above, the Commission shall, within 30 days, make a payment of $5,885.55 (the disgorgement
amount of $5812.95 plus interest in the amount of $72.60, calculated at the Federal short-term rate)
to Client 1. The Commission staff will seek the appointment of a tax administrator in regard to the
payment to Client 1as it constitutes a payment from a qualified settlement fund (“QSF”) under
section 468B(g) of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), 26 U.S.C. § 468B(g), and related regulations,
26 C.F.R. §§ 1.468B-1 through 1.468B-5. Taxes, if any, and related administrative expenses shall
be paid from the funds remaining after the payment has been made to Client 1. After the
distribution payment and all taxes and administrative expenses are paid, the Commission staff will
transfer the remaining funds to the general fund of the United States Treasury subject to Exchange
Act Section 21F(g)(3).
V.
It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by
Respondent Montermoso, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil
penalty or other amounts due by Respondent Montermoso under this Order or any other judgment,
order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is
a debt for the violation by Respondent Montermoso of the federal securities laws or any regulation
or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11
U.S.C. §523(a)(19).

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

7

