DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
12 CFR Part 43
Docket No. OCC-2013-0010
RIN 1557-AD40
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
12 CFR Part 244
Docket No. R-1411
RIN 7100-AD70
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
12 CFR Part 373
RIN 3064-AD74
FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
12 CFR Part 1234
RIN 2590-AA43
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Part 246
Release No. 34-73407; File No. S7-14-11
RIN 3235-AK96
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
24 CFR Part 267
RIN 2501-AD53

Credit Risk Retention
AGENCIES: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Treasury (OCC); Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board); Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(FDIC); U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (Commission); Federal Housing Finance
Agency (FHFA); and Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD).
ACTION: Final rule.
SUMMARY: The OCC, Board, FDIC, Commission, FHFA, and HUD (the agencies) are
adopting a joint final rule (the rule, or the final rule) to implement the credit risk retention
requirements of section 15G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15. U.S.C. 78o-11),

as added by section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection
Act (the Act or Dodd-Frank Act). Section 15G generally requires the securitizer of assetbacked securities to retain not less than 5 percent of the credit risk of the assets
collateralizing the asset-backed securities. Section 15G includes a variety of exemptions
from these requirements, including an exemption for asset-backed securities that are
collateralized exclusively by residential mortgages that qualify as “qualified residential
mortgages,” as such term is defined by the agencies by rule.
DATES: This rule is effective [INSERT date one year after the date of publication in the
Federal Register] with respect to asset-backed securities collateralized by residential
mortgages and [INSERT date two years after the date of publication in the Federal
Register] with respect to all other classes of asset-backed securities.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
OCC: Kevin Korzeniewski, Attorney, Legislative and Regulatory Activities Division,
(202) 649-5490, for persons who are deaf or hard of hearing, TTY, (202) 649-5597,
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 400 7th Street, SW, Washington, DC 20219.
Board: April C. Snyder, Senior Counsel, (202) 452-3099; Brian P. Knestout, Counsel,
(202) 452-2249; Flora H. Ahn, Counsel, (202) 452-2317; David W. Alexander, Senior
Attorney, (202) 452-2877; or Matt Suntag, Attorney, (202) 452-3694, Legal Division;
Thomas R. Boemio, Manager, (202) 452-2982; Donald N. Gabbai, Senior Supervisory
Financial Analyst, (202) 452-3358; or Sean M. Healey, Senior Financial Analyst, (202)
912-4611, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation; Karen Pence, Adviser,
Division of Research & Statistics, (202) 452-2342; or Nikita Pastor, Counsel, (202) 452-

2

3667, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, 20th and C Streets, NW, Washington, DC 20551.
FDIC: Rae-Ann Miller, Associate Director, (202) 898-3898; George Alexander,
Assistant Director, (202) 898-3718; Kathleen M. Russo, Supervisory Counsel, (703) 5622071; or Phillip E. Sloan, Counsel, (703) 562-6137, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, 550 17th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20429.
Commission: Arthur Sandel, Special Counsel; David Beaning, Special Counsel; Lulu
Cheng, Special Counsel; or Katherine Hsu, Chief, (202) 551-3850, in the Office of
Structured Finance, Division of Corporation Finance, U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549-3628.
FHFA: Ronald P. Sugarman, Principal Legislative Analyst, Ron.Sugarman@fhfa.gov,
(202) 649-3208; Phillip Millman, Principal Capital Markets Specialist,
Phillip.Millman@fhfa.gov, (202) 649-3080; or Thomas E. Joseph, Associate General
Counsel, Thomas.Joseph@fhfa.gov, (202) 649-3076; Federal Housing Finance Agency,
Constitution Center, 400 7th Street SW, Washington, DC 20024. The telephone number
for the Telecommunications Device for the Hearing Impaired is (800) 877-8339.
HUD: Michael P. Nixon, Office of Housing, Department of Housing and Urban
Development, 451 7th Street, SW, Room 10226, Washington, DC 20410; telephone
number 202-402-5216 (this is not a toll-free number). Persons with hearing or speech
impairments may access this number through TTY by calling the toll-free Federal
Information Relay Service at 800-877-8339.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Table of Contents

3

I. Introduction
A. Background
B. Overview of the Revised Proposal and Public Comment
C. Overview of the Final Rule
D. Post-Adoption Interpretation and Guidance
II. General Definitions and Scope
III. General Risk Retention Requirement
A. Minimum Risk Retention Requirement
B. Permissible Forms of Risk Retention – Menu of Options
1. Standard Risk Retention
2. Master Trusts: Revolving Pool Securitizations
3. Representative Sample
4. Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Conduits
5. Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities
6. Government-Sponsored Enterprises
7. Open Market Collateralized Loan Obligations
8. Municipal Bond “Repackaging” Securitizations
C. Allocation to the Originator
D. Hedging, Transfer, and Financing Restrictions
E. Safe Harbor for Certain Foreign-Related Securitizations
F. Sunset on Hedging and Transfer Restrictions
IV. General Exemptions

4

A. Exemption for Federally Insured or Guaranteed Residential, Multifamily, and
Health Care Mortgage Loan Assets
B. Exemption for Securitizations of Assets Issued, Insured, or Guaranteed by the
United States or any Agency of the United States and Other Exemptions
C. Federal Family Education Loan Program and Other Student Loan
Securitizations
D. Certain Public Utility Securitizations
E. Seasoned Loan Securitizations
F. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Securitizations
G. Exemption for Certain Resecuritization Transactions
H. Other Exemptions from Risk Retention Requirements
1. Legacy Loan Securitizations
2. Corporate Debt Repackagings
3. Securitizations of Servicer Advance Receivables
V. Reduced Risk Retention Requirements and Underwriting Standards for ABS Interests
Collateralized by Qualifying Commercial, Commercial Real Estate, or Automobile Loans
A. Qualifying Commercial Loans
B. Qualifying Commercial Real Estate Loans
1. Definition of Commercial Real Estate Loan
2. Single Borrower Underwriting Standard
3. Proposed QCRE Loan Criteria
4. Ability to Repay Criteria and Term
5. Loan-to-Value Requirement

5

6. Collateral
7. Risk Management and Monitoring
C. Qualifying Automobile Loans
1. Ability to Repay Criteria
2. Loan Terms
3. Reviewing Credit History
4. Down Payment Requirement
VI. Qualified Residential Mortgages
A. Background
B. Overview of the Reproposed Rule
C. Overview of Public Comments
1. Comments Received on the Reproposed QRM Definition
2. Comments Received on the Alternative Approach to QRM
D. Summary and Analysis of Final QRM Definition
1. Alignment of QRM with QM
2. Periodic Review of the QRM Definition
3. Definition of QRM
E. Certification and Other QRM Issues
F. Repurchase of Loans Subsequently Determined to be Non-Qualified After
Closing
VII. Additional Exemptions
VIII. Severability
IX. Plain Language

6

X. Administrative Law Matters
A. Regulatory Flexibility Act
B. Paperwork Reduction Act
C. Commission Economic Analysis
D. OCC Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 Determination
E. FHFA: Considerations of Differences between the Federal Home Loan Banks
and the Enterprises
I. Introduction
The agencies are adopting a final rule to implement the requirements of section
941 of the Dodd–Frank Act. 1 Section 15G of the Exchange Act, as added by section
941(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act, generally requires the Board, the FDIC, the OCC
(collectively, the Federal banking agencies), the Commission, and, in the case of the
securitization of any “residential mortgage asset,” together with HUD and FHFA, to
jointly prescribe regulations that (i) require a securitizer to retain not less than 5 percent
of the credit risk of any asset that the securitizer, through the issuance of an asset-backed
security (ABS), transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party, and (ii) prohibit a securitizer
from directly or indirectly hedging or otherwise transferring the credit risk that the
securitizer is required to retain under section 15G and the agencies’ implementing rules. 2
Section 15G of the Exchange Act exempts certain types of securitization

1

Pub. L. No. 111-203, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010). Section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Act
amends the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act) and adds a new section
15G of the Exchange Act. 15 U.S.C. 78o-11.
2

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(b), (c)(1)(A) and (c)(1)(B)(ii).

7

transactions from these risk retention requirements and authorizes the agencies to exempt
or establish a lower risk retention requirement for other types of securitization
transactions. For example, section 15G specifically provides that a securitizer shall not
be required to retain any part of the credit risk for an asset that is transferred, sold, or
conveyed through the issuance of ABS interests by the securitizer, if all of the assets that
collateralize the ABS interests are “qualified residential mortgages” (QRMs), as that term
is jointly defined by the agencies, which definition can be “no broader than” the
definition of a “qualified mortgage” (QM) as that term is defined under section 129C of
the Truth in Lending Act (TILA), 3 as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, and regulations
adopted thereunder. 4 In addition, section 15G provides that a securitizer may retain less
than 5 percent of the credit risk of commercial mortgages, commercial loans, and
automobile loans that are transferred, sold, or conveyed through the issuance of ABS
interests by the securitizer if the loans meet underwriting standards established by the
Federal banking agencies. 5
Section 15G allocates the authority for writing rules to implement its provisions
among the agencies in various ways. As a general matter, the agencies collectively are
responsible for adopting joint rules to implement the risk retention requirements of
section 15G for securitizations that are collateralized by residential mortgage assets and
for defining what constitutes a QRM for purposes of the exemption for QRM-backed

3

15 U.S.C. 1639c.

4

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(1)(C)(iii), (e)(4)(A) and (B).

5

See id. at sections 78o-11(c)(1)(B)(ii) and (2).

8

ABS interests. 6 The Federal banking agencies and the Commission, however, are
responsible for adopting joint rules that implement section 15G for securitizations
collateralized by all other types of assets, 7 and are authorized to adopt rules in several
specific areas under section 15G. 8 In addition, the Federal banking agencies are jointly
responsible for establishing, by rule, underwriting standards for non-QRM residential
mortgages, commercial mortgages, commercial loans, and automobile loans (or any other
asset class established by the Federal banking agencies and the Commission) that would
qualify sponsors of ABS interests collateralized by these types of loans for a risk
retention requirement of less than 5 percent. 9 Accordingly, when used in this final rule,
the term “agencies” shall be deemed to refer to the appropriate agencies that have
rulewriting authority with respect to the asset class, securitization transaction, or other
matter discussed.
For ease of reference, the final rule of the agencies is referenced using a common
designation of section 1 to section 21 (excluding the title and part designations for each
agency). With the exception of HUD, each agency is codifying the rule within its

6

See id. at sections 78o-11(b)(2), (e)(4)(A) and (B).

7

See id. at section 78o-11(b)(1).

8

See, e.g. id. at sections 78o-11(b)(1)(E) (relating to the risk retention requirements for
ABS collateralized by commercial mortgages); (b)(1)(G)(ii) (relating to additional
exemptions for assets issued or guaranteed by the United States or an agency of the
United States); (d) (relating to the allocation of risk retention obligations between a
securitizer and an originator); and (e)(1) (relating to additional exemptions, exceptions or
adjustments for classes of institutions or assets).
9

See id. at section 78o-11(b)(2)(B).

9

respective title of the Code of Federal Regulations. 10 Section 1 of each agency’s rule
identifies the entities or transactions subject to such agency’s rule.
Consistent with section 15G of the Exchange Act, the risk retention requirements
will become effective, for securitization transactions collateralized by residential
mortgages, one year after the date on which the final rule is published in the Federal
Register, and two years after the date on which the final rule is published in the Federal
Register for any other securitization transaction.
In April 2011, the agencies published a joint notice of proposed rulemaking that
proposed to implement section 15G of the Exchange Act (the “original proposal”). 11 The
agencies invited and received comment from the public on the original proposed rule. In
September 2013, the agencies published a second joint notice of proposed rulemaking
(the “revised proposal” or “reproposal”) that proposed significant modifications to the
original proposal and that again invited comment from the public. 12 As described in
more detail below, the agencies are adopting the revised proposal with some changes in
response to comments received.
As discussed further below, the final rule retains the framework of the revised

10

Specifically, the agencies codify the rule as follows: 12 CFR part 43 (OCC); 12 CFR
part 244 (Regulation RR) (Board); 12 CFR part 373 (FDIC); 17 CFR part 246
(Commission); 12 CFR part 1234 (FHFA). As required by section 15G, HUD has jointly
prescribed the final rule for a securitization that is collateralized by any residential
mortgage asset and for purposes of defining a qualified residential mortgage. Because
the final rule exempts the programs and entities under HUD’s jurisdiction from the
requirements of the final rule, HUD does not codify the rule into its title of the Code of
Federal Regulations.
11

Credit Risk Retention; Proposed Rule, 76 FR 24090 (April 29, 2011).

12

Credit Risk Retention; Proposed Rule, 78 FR 57928 (September 20, 2013).

10

proposal. Unless an exemption under the rule applies, sponsors of securitizations that
issue ABS interests must retain risk in accordance with the standardized risk retention
option (an eligible horizontal residual interest (as defined in the rule) or an eligible
vertical interest (as defined in the rule) or a combination of both) or in accordance with
one of the risk retention options available for specific types of asset classes, such as assetbacked commercial paper (ABCP). The final rule includes, with some modifications,
those exemptions set forth in the revised proposal, including for QRMs. In addition, in
response to comments and for the reasons discussed in Part VII of this Supplementary
Information, the agencies are providing an additional exemption from risk retention for
certain types of community-focused residential mortgages that are not eligible for QRM
status under the final rule and are exempt from the ability-to-pay rules under the TILA. 13
The agencies are not exempting managers of certain collateralized loan obligations
(CLOs) from risk retention, as requested by commenters, for the reasons discussed in Part
III.B.7 of this Supplementary Information.
The agencies have made adjustments and modifications to the risk retention and
underwriting requirements, as discussed in further detail below. Of particular note, under
the final rule, the agencies are not adopting the proposed requirement that a sponsor
holding an eligible horizontal residual interest be subject to the cash flow restrictions in
the revised proposal or any similar cash flow restrictions. In addition, the agencies
accepted commenters’ views that a fair value calculation was not necessary for vertical
retention and are not requiring the eligible vertical interest to be measured using fair

13

15 U.S.C. 1639c.

11

value. The agencies are also making some adjustments to the disclosure requirements
associated with the fair value calculation for an eligible horizontal residual interest. The
final rule also includes a provision that requires the agencies to periodically review the
definition of QRM, the exemption for certain community-focused residential mortgages,
and the exemption for certain three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans and consider
whether they should be modified, as discussed further below in Parts VI and VII of this
Supplementary Information. The final rule also includes several adjustments and
modifications to the proposed risk retention options for specific asset classes in order to
address specific functional concerns and avoid unintended consequences.
A. Background
As the agencies observed in the preambles to the original and revised proposals,
the securitization markets are an important link in the chain of entities providing credit to
U.S. households and businesses, and state and local governments. 14 When properly
structured, securitization provides economic benefits that can lower the cost of credit. 15

14

Securitization may reduce the cost of funding, which is accomplished through several
different mechanisms. For example, firms that specialize in originating new loans and
that have difficulty funding existing loans may use securitization to access more-liquid
capital markets for funding. In addition, securitization can create opportunities for more
efficient management of the asset–liability duration mismatch generally associated with
the funding of long-term loans, for example, with short-term bank deposits.
Securitization also allows the structuring of securities with differing maturity and credit
risk profiles from a single pool of assets that appeal to a broad range of investors.
Moreover, securitization that involves the transfer of credit risk allows financial
institutions that primarily originate loans to particular classes of borrowers, or in
particular geographic areas, to limit concentrated exposure to these idiosyncratic risks on
their balance sheets.
15

Report to the Congress on Risk Retention, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, at 8 (October 2010), available at
12

However, when incentives are not properly aligned and there is a lack of discipline in the
credit origination process, securitization can result in harmful consequences to investors,
consumers, financial institutions, and the financial system.
During the financial crisis, securitization transactions displayed significant
vulnerabilities arising from inadequate information and incentive misalignment among
various parties involved in the process. 16 Investors did not have access to the same
information about the assets collateralizing asset-backed securities as other parties in the
securitization chain (such as the sponsor of the securitization transaction or an originator
of the securitized loans). 17 In addition, assets were resecuritized into complex
instruments, which made it difficult for investors to discern the true value of, and risks
associated with, an investment in the securitization, as well as exercise their rights in the
instrument. 18 Moreover, some lenders loosened their underwriting standards, believing
that the loans could be sold through a securitization by a sponsor, and that both the lender
and sponsor would retain little or no continuing exposure to the loans. 19 Arbitrage
between various markets and market participants, and in particular between the
Enterprises and the private securitization markets, resulted in lower underwriting

http://federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/rptcongress/securitization/riskretention.pdf (Board
Report).
16

See Board Report at 8-9.

17

See S. Rep. No. 111-176, at 128 (2010).

18

See id.

19

See id.

13

standards which undermined the quality of the instruments collateralized by such loans
and ultimately the health of the financial markets and their participants. 20
Congress intended the risk retention requirements mandated by section 15G to
help address problems in the securitization markets by requiring that securitizers, as a
general matter, retain an economic interest in the credit risk of the assets they securitize.
By requiring that a securitizer retain a portion of the credit risk of the securitized assets,
the requirements of section 15G provide securitizers an incentive to monitor and ensure
the quality of the securitized assets underlying a securitization transaction, and, thus, help
align the interests of the securitizer with the interests of investors. Additionally, in
circumstances where the securitized assets collateralizing the ABS interests meet
underwriting and other standards designed to help ensure the securitized assets pose low
credit risk, the statute provides or permits an exemption. 21
Accordingly, the credit risk retention requirements of section 15G are an
important part of the legislative and regulatory efforts to address weaknesses and failures
in the securitization process and the securitization markets. Section 15G also
complements other parts of the Dodd-Frank Act intended to improve the securitization
markets. Such other parts include provisions that strengthen the regulation and
supervision of nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (NRSROs) and

20

See, e.g., Viral V. Acharya, Governments as Shadow Banks: The Looming Threat to
Financial Stability, at 32 (Sept. 2011), available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/events/conferences/2011/rsr/papers/Acharya.pdf.
21

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(1)(B)(ii), (e)(1)-(2).

14

improve the transparency of credit ratings; 22 provide for issuers of registered assetbacked securities offerings to perform a review of the securitized assets underlying the
asset-backed securities and disclose the nature of the review; 23 require issuers of assetbacked securities to disclose the history of the requests they received and repurchases
they made related to their outstanding asset-backed securities; 24 prevent sponsors and
certain other securitization participants from engaging in material conflicts of interest
with respect to their securitizations; 25 and require issuers of asset-backed securities to
disclose, for each tranche or class of security, information regarding the assets
collateralizing that security, including asset-level or loan-level data, if such data is
necessary for investors to independently perform due diligence. 26 Additionally, various
efforts regarding mortgage servicing should also have important benefits for the
securitization markets. 27
The original proposal provided several options from which sponsors could choose
to meet section 15G’s risk retention requirements, including retention of either a 5
percent “vertical” interest in each class of ABS interests issued in the securitization or a 5
percent “horizontal” first-loss interest in the securitization, and other options designed to
reflect market practice in asset-backed securitization transactions. The original proposal
22

See, e.g. sections 932, 935, 936, 938, and 943 of the Dodd-Frank Act (15 U.S.C. 78o7, 78o-8).
23

See section 945 of the Dodd-Frank Act (15 U.S.C. 77g).

24

See section 943 of the Dodd-Frank Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-7).

25

See section 621 of the Dodd-Frank Act (15 U.S.C. 77z-2a).

26

See section 942(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act (15 U.S.C. 77g(c)).

27

See, e.g., Mortgage Servicing Rules Under the Real Estate Settlement Act (Regulation
X); Final Rule, 78 FR 10696 (Feb. 14, 2013).

15

also included a special “premium capture” mechanism designed to prevent a sponsor
from structuring a securitization transaction in a manner that would allow the sponsor to
offset or minimize its retained economic exposure to the securitized assets.
As required by section 15G, the original proposal provided a complete exemption
from the risk retention requirements for asset-backed securities that are collateralized
solely by QRMs and established the terms and conditions under which a residential
mortgage would qualify as a QRM. 28 The original proposal would generally have
prohibited QRMs from having product features that were observed to contribute
significantly to the high levels of delinquencies and foreclosures since 2007 and included
underwriting standards associated with lower risk of default. The original proposal also
provided that sponsors would not have to hold risk retention for securitized commercial,
commercial real estate, and automobile loans that met proposed underwriting standards.
In the original proposal, the agencies specified that securitization transactions sponsored
by the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae) and the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac) (jointly, the Enterprises) would meet risk retention
requirements for as long as the Enterprises operated under the conservatorship or
receivership of FHFA with capital support from the United States.
In response to the original proposal, the agencies received comments from over
10,500 persons, institutions, or groups. A significant number of comments supported the
proposed menu-based approach of providing sponsors flexibility to choose from a
number of permissible forms of risk retention, although several requested more flexibility

28

See Original Proposal, 76 FR at 24117-24129 and 24164-24167.

16

in selecting risk retention options, including using multiple options simultaneously.
Many commenters expressed significant concerns with the proposed standards for
horizontal risk retention and the “premium capture” mechanism. Other commenters
expressed concerns with respect to standards in the original proposal for specific asset
classes and underwriting standards for non-residential asset classes and the application of
the original proposal to managers of certain CLO transactions. A majority of
commenters opposed the agencies’ proposed QRM standard, and several asserted that the
agencies should align the QRM definition with the QM definition, then under
development by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 29
The agencies considered the many comments received on the original proposal
and engaged in additional analysis of the securitization and lending markets in light of the
comments. The agencies subsequently issued the reproposal in September 2013,
modifying significant aspects of the original proposal and again inviting public comment
on the revised design of the risk retention regulatory framework to help determine
whether the revised framework was appropriately structured.
B. Overview of the Revised Proposal and Public Comment
The agencies proposed in 2013 a risk retention rule that would have retained
much of the structure of the original proposal, but with more flexibility in how risk
retention could be held and with a broader definition of QRM. 30

29

See 78 FR 6407 (January 30, 2013), as amended by 78 FR 35429 (June 12, 2013), 78
FR 44686 (July 24, 2013), and 78 FR 60382 (October 1, 2013) (collectively, “Final QM
rule”).
30

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR 57928.

17

Among other things, the revised proposal provided a variety of options for
complying with a minimum 5 percent risk retention requirement, an exemption from risk
retention for residential mortgage loans meeting the QRM standard, and exemptions from
risk retention for auto, commercial real estate, and commercial loans that met proposed
underwriting standards. With respect to the standard risk retention option, the revised
proposal provided sponsors with additional flexibility in complying with the regulation.
The revised proposal permitted a sponsor to satisfy its obligation by retaining any
combination of an “eligible vertical interest” with a pro rata interest in all ABS interests
issued and a first-loss “eligible horizontal residual interest” to meet the 5 percent
minimum requirement. A sponsor using solely the vertical interest option would retain a
single security or a portion of each class of ABS interests issued in the securitization
equal to at least 5 percent of all interests, regardless of the nature of the interests
themselves (for example, whether such interests were senior or subordinated). The
agencies also proposed that the eligible horizontal residual interest be measured using fair
value. The agencies proposed a mechanism designed to limit payments to holders of an
eligible horizontal residual interest, in order to prevent a sponsor from structuring a
transaction so that the holder of the eligible horizontal residual interest could receive
disproportionate payments with respect to its interest. In the revised proposal, sponsors
were required to make a one-time cash flow projection based on fair value and certify to
investors that its cash payment recovery percentages were not projected to be larger than
the recovery percentages for all other ABS interests on any future payment date. The
agencies also invited comment on an alternative proposal relating to the amount of
principal payments received by the eligible horizontal residual interest. Under that

18

alternative, the cumulative amount paid to an eligible horizontal residual interest on any
payment date would not have been permitted to exceed a proportionate share of the
cumulative amount paid to all ABS interests in the transaction.
The revised proposal also included asset class-specific options for risk retention
with some modifications from the original proposal to better reflect existing market
practices and operations. For example, with respect to revolving pool securitizations, the
agencies removed a restriction from the original proposal that prohibited the use of the
seller’s interest risk retention option for master trust securitizations collateralized by nonrevolving assets. With respect to ABCP conduits, the agencies made a number of
modifications intended to allow the ABCP option to accommodate certain market
practices discussed in the comments and to permit more flexibility on behalf of the
originator-sellers and their majority-owned affiliates that finance through ABCP
conduits. Similarly, the agencies modified the risk retention option designed for
commercial mortgage-backed securities (CMBS) to allow for up to two third-party
purchasers to retain the required risk retention interest, each taking a pari passu interest in
an eligible horizontal residual interest.
Also responding to commenters’ concerns, the revised proposal did not include
the premium capture cash reserve account mechanism and “representative sample” option
included in the original proposal. With respect to the premium capture cash reserve
account mechanism, the agencies considered that using fair value to measure the standard
risk retention amount would meaningfully mitigate the ability of a sponsor to evade the
risk retention requirement through the use of improper deal structures intended to be
addressed by the premium capture cash reserve account. With respect to the

19

representative sample option in the original proposal, the agencies considered the
comments received and eliminated the option in the revised proposal on the basis that
such an option would be difficult to implement in a way that would not result in costs that
outweighed its benefits.
The agencies retained, to a significant degree, standards for the expiration of the
hedging and transfer restrictions in the regulation. The agencies decided in the
reproposal to limit the sponsor’s ability to have all or a portion of the required retention
held by its affiliates to only a sponsor’s majority-owned affiliates rather than all
consolidated affiliates as would have been allowed in the original proposal. The agencies
have included this approach in the final rule because it ensures that any loss suffered by
the holder of risk retention will be suffered by either the sponsor or an entity in which the
sponsor has a substantial economic interest. The agencies also largely carried over the
terms of the original proposal with respect to securitizations collateralized by qualifying
commercial, commercial real estate, or automobile loans, although modifications were
proposed to reflect commenter observations and concerns, such as permitting junior liens
to collateralize qualifying commercial loans, increasing the amortization period on
commercial real estate loans to 30 years for multifamily residential qualified commercial
real estate (QCRE) loans and 25 years for other QCRE loans, and amending the
amortization standards for qualifying automobile loans.
The agencies also invited comment on new exemptions from risk retention for
certain resecuritizations, seasoned loans, and certain types of securitization transactions
with low credit risk. In addition, the agencies proposed a new risk retention option for
CLOs, similar to the allocation to originator concept proposed for sponsors generally.

20

The agencies proposed to broaden and simplify the scope of the definition of a
QRM in the revised proposal to align the definition with the definition of a QM under
section 129C of the TILA 31 and its implementing regulations, as adopted by the CFPB. 32
As discussed in the revised proposal, the agencies concluded that a QRM definition that
was aligned with the QM definition would meet the statutory goals and directive of
section 15G of the Exchange Act to limit credit risk and preserve access to affordable
credit, while at the same time facilitating compliance.
Along with this proposed approach to defining QRM, the agencies also invited
comment on an alternative approach that would require that the borrower meet certain
credit history criteria and that the loan be for a principal dwelling, meet certain lien
requirements, and have a certain loan to value ratio.
The revised proposal included a provision excluding certain foreign sponsors of
ABS interests from the risk retention requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act,
which did not differ materially from the corresponding provision in the original proposal.
In response to the revised proposal, the agencies received comments from more
than 250 persons, institutions, or groups, including nearly 150 unique comment letters.
The agencies received comments and observations on many aspects of the reproposed
rule. Numerous commenters supported most aspects of the rule, but many suggested or
asked for further modifications. As discussed in further detail below, a significant
number of commenters commented on the agencies’ use of fair value to measure risk

31

15 U.S.C. 1639c.

32

See 78 FR 6407 (January 30, 2013), as amended by 78 FR 35429 (June 12, 2013) and
78 FR 44686 (July 24, 2013).

21

retention. Commenters’ key concerns included the timing of any fair value measurement
and potential alternative methodologies to measuring risk retention. Many commenters
also expressed concern about the proposed disclosure requirements for fair value, and
some asked for a “safe harbor” from liability with respect to the disclosures.
As with the original proposal, a number of commenters on the revised proposal
asserted that managers of open market CLOs are not “securitizers” within the definition
in section 15G of the Exchange Act and should not be required to retain risk. In addition,
commenters asked for an exemption from risk retention for CLOs that would meet certain
structural criteria and for a new option to allow third-party investors in CLOs to hold risk
retention instead of CLO managers. Commenters also generally opposed the agencies’
proposed alternative for risk retention for open market CLOs in which a lead arranger in
a syndicated loan was allowed to satisfy the risk retention requirement, asserting that this
option was inconsistent with current market practice and that lead arranger banks would
be hesitant to retain risk as proposed in the revised proposal without being allowed to
hedge or transfer that risk because they would be concerned about criticism from bank
regulators.
The agencies’ proposed definition of a QRM was also the subject of significant
commentary. Overall, commenters supported the agencies’ proposal to align the QRM
definition with the QM definition. Several commenters asked that the QRM definition
accommodate the use of blended pools of QRM and non-QRM loans. Other commenters
sought more specific expansions of the definition, including an exemption for loans
originated by community development financial institutions and other communityfocused lenders that are exempt from the ability-to-repay requirements (and, as a result,

22

do not qualify to be QMs under TILA), imposition of a less than 5 percent risk retention
requirement for some loans that did not qualify for QM, and the inclusion of non-U.S.
originated loans. Several commenters expressed concern with both the alignment of the
QRM definition with the QM definition as well as the alternative, more restrictive,
definition of QRM for which the agencies had invited comment, suggesting that the
agencies use the definition of QRM in the original proposal.
Commenters expressed concerns on certain other aspects of the rule. Numerous
commenters opposed the cash flow restrictions on the eligible horizontal residual interest
option, making various assertions on impracticalities and impacts on different asset
classes that could result from the restrictions. Commenters also expressed concerns
about the scope of the seller’s interest option for revolving pool securitization
arrangements and whether it would comport with current market practices. With respect
to CMBS, some commenters were concerned that the third-party purchaser options were
too expansive, while other commenters asked for further reductions in the restrictions on
B-piece risk retention. Commenters also asked for a number of modifications to the
proposed underwriting standards for qualifying commercial, commercial real estate, and
automobile loans, including an exemption for CMBS transactions where all the
securitized assets are extensions of credit to one borrower or its affiliates.
C. Overview of the Final Rule
After considering all comments received in light of the purpose of the statute and
concerns from investors and individuals seeking credit, and after engaging in additional
analysis of the securitization and lending markets, the agencies have adopted the revised
proposal with some modifications, as discussed below. The agencies are adopting the

23

final QRM definition, as proposed, to mean a QM, as defined in section 129C of TILA 33
and its implementing regulations, as amended from time to time.34 The agencies
continue to believe that a QRM definition that aligns with the definition of a QM meets
the statutory goals and directive of section 15G of the Exchange Act to protect investors
and enhance financial stability, in part by limiting credit risk, while also preserving
access to affordable credit and facilitating compliance. As discussed in further detail
below, the agencies will review the definition of QRM periodically – beginning not later
than four years after the effective date of the rule with respect to securitizations of
residential mortgages, and every five years thereafter. These timeframes are designed to
coordinate the agencies’ review of the QRM definition with the timing of the CFPB’s
statutorily mandated assessment of QM, as well as to better ensure that the QRM
definition continues to meet the goals and directive of section 15G. The final rule also
provides that any of the agencies may request a review of the definition of QRM at any
time as circumstances warrant.
In addition, the agencies are adopting the minimum risk retention requirement and
risk retention options, with some modifications to address specific commenter concerns.
As discussed in more detail below, and consistent with the revised proposal, the final rule
applies a minimum 5 percent base risk retention requirement to all securitization
transactions that are within the scope of section 15G of the Exchange Act and prohibits
the sponsor from hedging or otherwise transferring its retained interest prior to the

33

15 U.S.C. 1639c.

34

See Final QM rule.

24

applicable sunset date. The final rule also allows a sponsor to satisfy its risk retention
obligation by retaining an eligible vertical interest, an eligible horizontal residual interest,
or any combination thereof as long as the amount of the eligible vertical interest and the
amount of the eligible horizontal residual interest combined is no less than 5 percent.
The amount of the eligible vertical interest is equal to the percentage of each class of
ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction held by the sponsor as eligible
vertical risk retention. The amount of eligible horizontal residual interest is equal to the
fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest divided by the fair value of all ABS
interests issued in the securitization transaction. After considering the numerous
comments received, the agencies have concluded that the proposed cash flow restriction
on the eligible horizontal residual interest (as well as the alternative described in the
reproposal) could lead to unintended consequences or have a disparate impact on some
asset classes. The agencies have therefore decided not to include such restrictions under
the final rule.
With respect to the proposed disclosure requirements related to the fair value
calculation of eligible horizontal residual interests, the agencies continue to believe that it
is important to the functioning of the final rule to ensure that investors and the markets,
as well as regulators, are provided with key information about the methodologies and
assumptions that are used by sponsors under the final rule to calculate the amount of their
eligible horizontal residual interests in accordance with fair value standards. Because the
agencies believe that disclosures of the assumptions inherent in fair value calculations are
necessary to enable investors to make informed investment decisions, the agencies are

25

generally retaining the proposed fair value disclosure requirements, with some
modifications in response to commenter concern, as further discussed below.
Furthermore, as discussed in more detail below, the agencies are adopting the
revised proposal’s provisions for CMBS third-party purchasers with some modifications
to respond to specific commenter concerns. In addition, the agencies are retaining the
proposed five-year period during which transfer among qualified third-party purchasers
of CMBS eligible horizontal residual interests that are retained in satisfaction of the final
rule will not be permitted. The agencies are also adopting the proposed underwriting
standards for commercial, commercial real estate, and automobile loans, with some minor
adjustments to the commercial real estate underwriting standards as described below.
The agencies are also adopting the revised proposal’s treatment of allocation to
originators, tender option bonds, and ABCP conduits, with some limited modifications,
as described below. With respect to revolving pool securitizations – described in the
reproposal as revolving master trusts – the agencies are adopting the reproposal with
several refinements designed to expand availability of the seller’s interest option. The
final rule also contains the various proposed exemptions for government-related
transactions and certain resecuritizations from the revised proposal.
The agencies also, as proposed, are applying risk retention to CLO managers as
“securitizers” of CLO transactions under section 15G of the Exchange Act and, as
discussed in further detail below, are not adopting structural exemptions or third-party
options as suggested by some commenters. After carefully considering comments, the
suggested exemptions and alternatives, the purposes of section 15G of the Exchange Act,
and the features and dynamics of CLOs and the leveraged loan market, the agencies have

26

concluded that risk retention is appropriately applied to CLO managers and a structural
exemption or third-party option would likely undermine the consistent application of the
final rule. Furthermore, the agencies are retaining in the final rule the proposed
alternative for open market CLOs whereby, for each loan purchased by the CLO, risk
may be retained by a lead arranger. The agencies appreciate that this option may not
reflect current practice, but have concluded that the option may provide a sound method
for meaningful risk retention for the CLO market in the future.
D. Post-adoption Interpretation and Guidance
The preambles to the original and revised proposals described the agencies’
intention to jointly approve certain types of written interpretations concerning the scope
of section 15G and the final rule issued thereunder. Several commenters on the original
proposal, and some commenters on the reproposal, expressed concern about the agencies’
process for issuing written interpretations jointly and the possible uncertainty about the
interpretation of the rule that may arise due to this process.
The agencies have endeavored to provide specificity and clarity in the final rule to
avoid conflicting interpretations or uncertainty. In the future, if the agencies determine
that further guidance would be beneficial for market participants, the agencies may
jointly publish interpretive guidance, as the Federal banking agencies have done in the
past. In addition, the agencies note that market participants can, as always, seek guidance
concerning the rule from their primary Federal banking regulator or, if such market
participant is not a depository institution, the Commission. In light of the joint nature of
the agencies’ rule writing authority, the agencies continue to view the consistent
application of the final rule as a benefit and intend to consult with each other when

27

adopting staff interpretations or guidance on the final rule that would be shared with the
public generally in order to attempt to achieve full consensus on such interpretations and
guidance. 35 In order to facilitate this goal, the Federal banking agencies and the
Commission intend to coordinate as needed to discuss pending requests for such
interpretations and guidance, with the participation of HUD and FHFA when such
agencies are among the appropriate agencies for such matters.
II. General Definitions and Scope
The original proposal defined several terms applicable to the overall rule. The
original proposal provided that the proposed risk retention requirements would have
applied to sponsors in securitizations that involve the issuance of “asset-backed
securities” and defined the terms “asset-backed security” and “asset” consistent with the
definitions of those terms in the Exchange Act. The original proposal noted that section
15G does not appear to distinguish between transactions that are registered with the
Commission under the Securities Act of 1933 (the Securities Act) and those that are
exempt from registration under the Securities Act. It further noted that the proposed
definition of asset-backed security, which would have been broader than that in the
Commission’s Regulation AB, 36 included securities that are typically sold in transactions
that are exempt from registration under the Securities Act, such as collateralized debt

35

These items do not include interpretation and guidance in staff comment letters and
other staff guidance directed to specific institutions that is not intended to be relied upon
by the public generally. Nor do they include interpretations and guidance contained in
administrative or judicial enforcement proceedings by the agencies, or in an agency
report of examination or inspection or similar confidential supervisory correspondence.
36

See 17 CFR 229.1100 through 17 CFR 229.1123.

28

obligations (CDOs) and securities issued or guaranteed by an Enterprise. As a result,
pursuant to the definitions in the original proposal, the proposed risk retention
requirements would have applied to securitizers of offerings of asset-backed securities
regardless of whether the offering was registered with the Commission under the
Securities Act.
Under the original proposal, risk retention requirements would have applied to the
securitizer in each “securitization transaction,” defined as a transaction involving the
offer and sale of ABS interests by an issuing entity. The original proposal also explained
that the term “ABS interest” would refer to all types of interests or obligations issued by
an issuing entity, whether or not in certificated form, including a security, obligation,
beneficial interest, or residual interest, but would not include interests, such as common
or preferred stock, in an issuing entity that are issued primarily to evidence ownership of
the issuing entity, and the payments, if any, which are not primarily dependent on the
cash flows of the collateral held by the issuing entity.
Section 15G stipulates that its risk retention requirements be applied to a
“securitizer” of an asset-backed security and, in turn, that a securitizer is either an issuer
of an asset-backed security or a person who organizes and initiates a securitization
transaction by selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including
through an affiliate or issuer. The original proposal discussed the fact that the second
prong of this definition is substantially identical to the definition of a “sponsor” of a

29

securitization transaction in the Commission’s Regulation AB 37 and defined the term
“sponsor” in a manner consistent with the definition of that term in the Commission’s
Regulation AB.
As noted in the original proposal, the agencies believe that applying the risk
retention requirement to the sponsor of the ABS interests—as provided by section 15G—
is appropriate in light of the active and direct role that a sponsor typically has in
arranging a securitization transaction and selecting the assets to be securitized. This role
best situates the sponsor to monitor and control the credit quality of the securitized assets.
In some cases, the transfer of assets by the sponsor will take place through a whollyowned subsidiary of the sponsor that is often referred to as the “depositor.” As noted
above, the definition of “securitizer” in section 15G(a)(3)(A) includes the “issuer of an
asset-backed security.” The term “issuer” when used in the federal securities laws may
have different meanings depending on the context in which it is used. For example, for
several purposes under the federal securities laws, including the Securities Act 38 and the

37

See Item 1101 of the Commission’s Regulation AB (17 CFR 229.1101) (defining a
sponsor as “a person who organizes and initiates an asset-backed securities transaction by
selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, to
the issuing entity.”).
38

Section 2(a)(4) of Securities Act (15 U.S.C. § 77b(a)(4)) defines the term “issuer” in
part to include every person who issues or proposes to issue any security, except that with
respect to certificates of deposit, voting-trust certificates, or collateral trust certificates, or
with respect to certificates of interest or shares in an unincorporated investment trust not
having a board of directors (or persons performing similar functions), the term issuer
means the person or persons performing the acts and assuming the duties of depositor or
manager pursuant to the provisions of the trust or other agreement or instrument under
which the securities are issued.

30

Exchange Act 39 (of which section 15G is a part) and the rules promulgated under these
Acts, 40 the term “issuer” when used with respect to a securitization transaction is defined
to mean the entity—the depositor—that deposits the assets that collateralize the assetbacked securities with the issuing entity. As stated in the original proposal, the agencies
interpret the reference in section 15G(a)(3)(A) to an “issuer of an asset-backed security”
as referring to the “depositor” of the securitization transaction, consistent with how that
term has been defined and used under the federal securities laws in connection with assetbacked securities. 41
As noted above, the rule generally applies the risk retention requirements of
section 15G to a sponsor of the securitization transaction. In many cases the depositor
and the sponsor are the same legal entity; however, even in cases where the depositor and
the sponsor are not the same legal entity, the depositor is a pass-through vehicle for the
transfer of assets and is either controlled or funded by the sponsor. Therefore, under the

39

See Exchange Act § 3(a)(8) (15 U.S.C. § 78c(a)(8) (defining “issuer” under the
Exchange Act).
40

See, e.g., Securities Act Rule 191 (17 CFR 230.191) and Exchange Act Rule 3b-19
(17 CFR 240.3b-19).
41

For asset-backed securities transactions where there is not an intermediate transfer of
the assets from the sponsor to the issuing entity, the term depositor refers to the sponsor.
For asset-backed securities transactions where the person transferring or selling the pool
assets is itself a trust (such as in an issuance trust structure), the depositor of the issuing
entity is the depositor of that trust. See section 2 of the final rule. Securities Act Rule
191 and Exchange Act Rule 3b-19 also note that the person acting as the depositor in its
capacity as depositor to the issuing entity is a different “issuer” from that person in
respect of its own securities in order to make clear—for example—that any applicable
exemptions from Securities Act registration that person may have with respect to its own
securities are not applicable to the asset-backed securities. That distinction does not
appear relevant here because the risk retention rule would not be applicable to an
issuance by such person of securities that are not asset-backed securities.

31

rule, the definition of sponsor effectively includes the depositor of the securitization
transaction, and should identify the party subject to the risk retention requirements for
every securitization transaction. Therefore, in the agencies’ view, applying the risk
retention requirement to the sponsor, as defined in the rule, substantively aligns with the
definition of “securitizer” in section 15G of the Exchange Act.
Other than issues concerning CLOs, which are discussed in Part III.B.7; issues
concerning ABCP, which are discussed in Part III.B.4; and issues concerning sponsors of
municipal bond repackagings, which are discussed in Part III.B.8 of this Supplementary
Information, comments with regard to the definition of securitizer or sponsor were
generally limited to requests that the final rule provide that certain specified persons –
such as underwriting sales agents – be expressly excluded from the definition of
securitizer or sponsor for the purposes of the risk retention requirements.
In response to comments received relating to various transaction parties
requesting that the agencies either designate as sponsors, or clarify would meet the
requirements of the definition of sponsor, the agencies are providing some guidance with
respect to the definition of sponsor. The statute and the rule define a securitizer as a
person who “organizes and initiates an asset-backed securities transaction by selling or
transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, to the
issuer.” 42 The agencies believe that the organization and initiation criteria in both
definitions are critical to determining whether a person is a securitizer or sponsor. The
agencies are of the view that, in order to qualify as a party that organizes and initiates a

42

See 15 U.S.C. § 78o-11(a)(3)(B) and section 2 of the final rule, infra.

32

securitization transaction and, thus, as a securitizer or sponsor, the party must have
actively participated in the organization and initiation activities that would be expected to
impact the quality of the securitized assets underlying the asset-backed securitization
transaction, typically through underwriting and/or asset selection. The agencies believe
this interpretation of the statutory language “organize and initiate” is reasonable because
it further accomplishes the statutory goals of risk retention—alignment of the incentives
of the sponsor of the securitization transaction with the investors and improvement in the
underwriting and selection of the securitized assets. Without this active participation, the
holder of retention could be merely a speculative investor, with no ability to influence
underwriting or asset selection. In addition, the interests of a speculative investor may
not be aligned with those of other investors. For example, another asset-backed security
issuer would not meet the “organization and initiation” criteria in the definition of
“sponsor” as such an entity could not be the party that actively makes decisions regarding
asset selection or underwriting. Additionally, the agencies believe that a party who does
not engage in this type of active participation would be a third-party holder of risk
retention, which (with the narrow exception of a qualified third-party purchaser in a
CMBS transaction) is not an acceptable holder of retention under the rule because the
participation of such a party does not result in the more direct alignment of incentives
achieved by requiring the party with underwriting or asset selection authority to retain
risk. Thus, for example, an entity that serves only as a pass-through conduit for assets
that are transferred into a securitization vehicle, or that only purchases assets at the
direction of an independent asset or investment manager, only pre-approves the purchase
of assets before selection, or only approves the purchase of assets after such purchase has

33

been made would not qualify as a “sponsor”. If such a person retained risk, it would be
an impermissible third-party holder of risk retention for purposes of the rule, because
such activities, in and of themselves, do not rise to the level of “organization and
initiation”. In addition, negotiation of underwriting criteria or asset selection criteria or
merely acting as a “rubber stamp” for decisions made by other transaction parties does
not sufficiently distinguish passive investment from the level of active participation
expected of a sponsor or securitizer.
The original proposal would have defined the term “originator” in the same
manner as section 15G, namely, as a person who, through the extension of credit or
otherwise, creates a financial asset that collateralizes an asset-backed security, and sells
the asset directly or indirectly to a securitizer (i.e., a sponsor or depositor). The original
proposal went on to note that because this definition refers to the person that “creates” a
loan or other receivable, only the original creditor under a loan or receivable – and not a
subsequent purchaser or transferee – would have been an originator of the loan or
receivable for purposes of section 15G. The revised proposal kept the definition from the
original proposal.
The original proposal referred to the assets underlying a securitization transaction
as the “securitized assets,” meaning assets that are transferred to a special purpose vehicle
(SPV) that issues the ABS interests and that stand as collateral for those ABS interests.
“Collateral” was defined as the property that provides the cash flow for payment of the
ABS interests issued by the issuing entity. Taken together, these definitions were meant
to include the loans, leases, or similar assets that the depositor places into the issuing
entity at the inception of the transaction, though it would have also included other assets

34

such as pre-funded cash reserve accounts. Commenters to the original proposal stated
that, in addition to this property, the issuing entity may hold other assets. For example,
the issuing entity may acquire interest rate derivatives to convert floating rate interest
income to fixed rate, or the issuing entity may accrete cash or other liquid assets in
reserve funds that accumulate cash generated by the securitized assets. As another
example, commenters stated that an ABCP conduit may hold a liquidity guarantee from a
bank on some or all of its securitized assets. The agencies retained these definitions of
securitized assets and collateral in the revised proposal.
Some commenters expressed concern with respect to the scope of the terms of the
definitions of asset-backed securities, securitization transactions, and ABS interests in the
original proposal and suggested specific exemptions or exclusions from their application.
Similarly, a number of commenters requested clarification of the scope of the definition
of “ABS interest,” or suggested narrowing the definition, while other commenters
suggested an expansion of the scope of the “securitization transaction” definition.
Comments with regard to definitions of securitizer and sponsor in the original proposal
were generally limited to requests that specified persons be expressly excluded from, or
included in, the definition of securitizer or sponsor for the purposes of the risk retention
requirements. The agencies determined to leave the definitions of securitizer and sponsor
substantially unchanged in the revised proposal. After consideration of all the comments
on the original proposal, the agencies did not believe that significant changes to most
definitions applicable throughout the proposed rule were necessary and, in the revised
proposal, retained most definitions as originally proposed.

35

The agencies did add some substantive definitions to the revised proposal,
including proposing a definition of “servicing assets,” which would be any rights or other
assets designed to assure the servicing, timely payment, or timely distribution of proceeds
to security holders, or assets related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring
and holding the issuing entity’s securitized assets. The agencies noted in the revised
proposal that such assets may include cash and cash equivalents, contract rights,
derivative agreements of the issuing entity used to hedge interest rate and foreign
currency risks, or the collateral underlying the securitized assets. As provided in the
reproposed rule, “servicing assets” also include proceeds of assets collateralizing the
securitization transactions, whether in the form of voluntary payments from obligors on
the assets or otherwise (such as liquidation proceeds). The agencies are adopting this
definition substantially as reproposed in order to ensure that the provisions appropriately
accommodate the need, in administering a securitization transaction on an ongoing basis,
to hold various assets other than the loans or similar assets that are transferred into the
asset pool by the securitization depositor. In this way, the definition is similar to the
definition of “eligible assets” in Rule 3a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940,
which specifies conditions under which the issuer of non-redeemable fixed-income
securities collateralized by self-liquidating financial assets will not be deemed to be an
investment company.
In light of the agencies’ adoption of the QRM definition from the reproposal and
the exemption for certain three-to-four unit residential mortgages (as discussed in section
VII below), the agencies are modifying the proposed definition of “residential mortgage”
to clarify that all loans secured by 1-4 unit residential properties will be “residential

36

mortgages” for the purposes of the final rule and subject to the rule’s provisions
regarding residential mortgages (such as the sunset on hedging and transfer restrictions
specific to residential mortgages) if they do not qualify for an exemption. Under the final
rule, a residential mortgage would mean a residential mortgage that is a “covered
transaction” as defined in the CFPB’s Regulation Z; 43 any transaction that is specifically
exempt from the definition of “covered transaction” under the CFPB’s Regulation Z; 44
and, as a modification to the proposed definition, any other loan secured by a residential
structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure is attached to real
property, including condominiums, and if used as residences, mobile homes and
trailers. 45 Therefore, the term “residential mortgage” would include home equity lines of
credit, reverse mortgages, mortgages secured by interests in timeshare plans, temporary
loans, and certain community-focused residential mortgages further discussed in Part VII
of this Supplementary Information. It would also include mortgages secured by 1-4 unit
residential properties even if the credit is deemed for business purposes under Regulation
Z.
Many comments on the revised proposal were similar to, or repeated, the
comments on the original proposal. Some commenters asked that specific definitions be
added to the rule, such as eligible participation interest, owner’s interest, and participant’s
interest. With respect to the definitions of securitizer and sponsor, several commenters on

43

See 12 CFR 1026.43.

44

See 12 CFR 1026.43.

45

This addition to the definition is substantially similar to the CFPB’s definition of
“dwelling” in Regulation Z. See 12 CFR 1026.2(19).

37

the revised proposal requested that the final rule expressly exempt, or include, certain
categories or groups of persons – such as underwriting sales agents, multiple sponsors of
transactions, affiliated entities, or, in the case of tender-option bonds and ABCP, brokers
who acquire and securitize assets at the direction of a third party. Other commenters
requested confirmation that certain categories of transactions would not qualify as a sale
or transfer of an interest for purposes of the rule.
Three commenters requested that the agencies reconsider their decision to treat
non-economic residual interests in real estate investment conduits (REMICS) as ABS
interests, noting the potential negative tax consequences for sponsors of REMICS.
Another commenter requested that lower-tier REMIC interests in tiered structures be
exempted from treatment as ABS interests, and a separate commenter requested an
express exclusion of REMIC residual interests entirely. One commenter again asserted
that the definition of “securitization transaction” was overly broad because it would
include a variety of corporate debt repackagings, which the commenter asserted should
be expressly exempt from risk retention. One commenter requested clarification that
issuers of securities collateralized by qualifying assets could hold hedging agreements,
insurance policies, and other forms of credit enhancement as permitted by the
Commission’s Regulation AB. One commenter asked that the definition of commercial
real estate be revised to include land loans, including loans made to owners of fee
interests in land leased to third parties who own improvements on the land.

38

While the final rule generally retains the definitions in the revised proposal, to
address the concerns raised by commenters with respect to REMICs, 46 the agencies have
modified the definition of ABS interest to exclude (i) a non-economic residual interest
issued by a REMIC and (ii) an uncertificated regular interest in a REMIC that is held
only by another REMIC, where both REMICs are part of the same structure and a single
REMIC issues ABS interests to investors. The agencies do not believe that significant
changes to the general definitions are necessary or appropriate in light of the purposes of
the statute. All adjustments to the general definitions are discussed below in this
Supplementary Information in the context of relevant risk retention options.
III. General Risk Retention Requirement
A. Minimum Risk Retention Requirement
Section 15G of the Exchange Act generally requires that the agencies jointly
prescribe regulations that require a securitizer to retain not less than 5 percent of the
credit risk for any asset that the securitizer, through the issuance of ABS interests,
transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party, unless an exemption from the risk retention
requirements for the securities or transaction is otherwise available (e.g., if the ABS
interests are collateralized exclusively by QRMs). Consistent with the statute, the
reproposal generally would have required that a sponsor retain an economic interest equal
to at least 5 percent of the aggregate credit risk of the assets collateralizing an issuance of
ABS interests (the base risk retention requirement). For securitizations where two or

46

Some commenters expressed concern that including REMICs in the ABS interest
definition would create tax liabilities unrelated to the credit risk of the underlying
collateral and would likely reduce the intended impact of the risk retention rules since
non-economic residual interests usually have a negative value.

39

more entities would each meet the definition of sponsor, the reproposal would have
required that one of the sponsors retain the credit risk of the securitized assets in
accordance with the requirements of the rule. Under the reproposal, the base risk
retention requirement would have been available as an option to sponsors of all
securitization transactions within the scope of the rule, regardless of whether the sponsor
was an insured depository institution, a bank holding company or subsidiary thereof, a
registered broker-dealer, or another type of entity.
Some comments addressed the proposed minimum risk retention requirement.
One commenter expressed support for the proposed minimum requirement of 5 percent
risk retention, asserting that such a requirement would promote higher quality lending,
protect investor interests, and limit the originate-to-distribute business model. Other
commenters requested a higher minimum risk retention requirement depending on asset
quality. One commenter asserted that 5 percent should be the minimum and that the
purpose of risk retention would be defeated by applying 5 percent to situations in which
assets are sold at a discount from par. That commenter proposed that the requirement
should be either (i) the greater of 5 percent or the expected losses on the assets or (ii) the
greater of 5 percent or the conditional expected losses on the assets or asset class under a
moderate economic stress environment. Another commenter stated that some sponsors
hold less than 5 percent because of the high quality of some assets, and requiring 5
percent retention could potentially double costs in some instances. Another commenter
asserted that retaining 5 percent may not be sufficient as many sponsors held more than 5
percent credit risk in their securitizations before the crisis. That same commenter stated
that investors were likely to insist that originators retain some credit risk. One
40

commenter proposed a minimum risk retention requirement of 20 percent, while another
commenter requested that sponsors be required to hold 100 percent risk retention for a
specified period of time. For securitizations where multiple entities each meet the
definition of sponsor, one commenter stated that multiple sponsors should be permitted to
allocate the required amount of risk retention among themselves, so long as the aggregate
amount retained satisfies the requirements of the risk retention rules. Other commenters
requested a lower minimum for pools that blend assets that would be exempt from risk
retention by meeting the proposed underwriting standards with assets not meeting the
standards, which is discussed in further detail in Part V of this Supplementary
Information.
After careful consideration of the comments received, the agencies are adopting
the minimum risk retention requirement as proposed. Consistent with the reproposal and
the general requirement in section 15G of the Exchange Act, the final rule applies a
minimum 5 percent base risk retention requirement to all securitization transactions
within the scope of section 15G, unless an exemption under the final rule applies. 47 The
agencies believe that this requirement will provide sponsors with an incentive to monitor
and control the underwriting of securitized assets and help align the interests of the

47

See final rule at sections 3 through 10. Similar to the proposal, the final rule, in some
instances, permits a sponsor to allow another person to retain the required amount of
credit risk (e.g., originators, third-party purchasers in CMBS transactions, and originatorsellers in ABCP conduit securitizations). However, in such circumstances, the final rule
includes limitations and conditions designed to ensure that the purposes of section 15G
continue to be fulfilled. Further, even when another person is permitted to retain risk, the
sponsor still remains responsible under the rule for compliance with the risk retention
requirements, as discussed below.

41

sponsor with those of investors in the ABS interests. The agencies note that, while
Congress directed that the rule include a risk retention requirement of no less than 5
percent of the credit risk for any asset, parties to a securitization transaction may agree
that more risk will be retained. While some commenters asked that the rule calibrate the
credit risk on an asset class basis (i.e., make a determination that the credit risk associated
with certain asset classes is lower than for other asset classes), the agencies are declining
to do that at this time because the data provided by commenters do not provide a
sufficient basis for the calibration of credit risk on an asset class basis. 48 For
securitizations where two or more entities would each meet the definition of sponsor, the
final rule requires that one of the sponsors complies with the rule, consistent with the
original and revised proposals. The final rule does not prohibit multiple sponsors from
retaining credit risk as long as one of those sponsors complies with the requirements of
the final rule. The agencies are not allowing sponsors to divide the required risk retention
generally because allowing multiple sponsors to divide required risk retention among
themselves would dilute the economic risk being retained and, as a result, reduce the
intended alignment of interest between the sponsor and the investors.
The agencies do not believe that it is necessary or appropriate to attempt to vary
the amount of risk retention based on the quality of the assets or other factors and believe
that attempting to do so would unnecessarily complicate compliance with the rule. As

48

As required by section 15G, the agencies have established automobile, commercial
real estate, and commercial loan asset classes and related underwriting standards
designed to ensure a low credit risk for assets originated to those standards. The agencies
provided for zero risk retention for loans meeting the prescribed underwriting standards.

42

discussed below, the agencies are adopting the requirement that an eligible horizontal
residual interest be measured at fair value using a fair value methodology acceptable
under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). The agencies believe that
generally requiring that retention be 5 percent of the fair value of the ABS interests
issued in the securitization transaction will sufficiently calibrate the actual amount of
retention to the value of the assets, including how that value may be affected by expected
losses. In addition, subject to limited exceptions, such as that applicable to transfers of
CMBS interests among qualified third-party purchasers after five years, transfers to
majority-owned affiliates, and certain permitted hedging activities, the final rule prohibits
the sponsor from hedging or otherwise transferring its retained interest prior to the
applicable sunset date, as discussed in Part IV.F of this Supplementary Information.
The agencies note that the base risk retention requirement is a regulatory
minimum and not a limit on what investors or other market participants may require. The
sponsor, originator, or other party to a securitization may retain additional exposure to the
credit risk of assets that the sponsor, originator, or other party helps securitize beyond
that required by the rule, either on its own initiative or in response to the demands or
requirements of private market participants.
B. Permissible Forms of Risk Retention -- Menu of Options
Section 15G of the Exchange Act expressly provides the agencies the authority to
determine the permissible forms through which the required amount of risk retention

43

must be held. 49 Accordingly, the reproposal, like the original proposal, would have
provided sponsors with multiple options to satisfy the risk retention requirements of
section 15G. The flexibility provided in the reproposal’s menu of options for complying
with the risk retention requirement was designed to take into account the heterogeneity of
securitization markets and practices and to reduce the potential for the proposed rules to
negatively affect the availability and costs of credit to consumers and businesses. As
proposed, the menu of options approach was designed to be consistent with the various
ways in which a sponsor or other entity, in historical market practices, may have retained
exposure to the credit risk of securitized assets. 50 Historically, whether or how a sponsor
retained exposure to the credit risk of the assets it securitized was determined by a variety
of factors including the rating requirements of the NRSROs, investor preferences or
demands, accounting and regulatory capital considerations, and whether there was a
market for the type of interest that might ordinarily be retained (at least initially by the
sponsor).
Commenters generally supported the menu-based approach of providing sponsors
with the flexibility to choose from a number of permissible forms of risk retention.
While commenters were generally supportive of a menu-based approach, several

49

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(1)(C)(i); see also S. Rep. No. 111-176, at 130 (2010) (“The
Committee [on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs] believes that implementation of
risk retention obligations should recognize the differences in securitization practices for
various asset classes.”).
50

See Board Report; see also Macroeconomic Effects of Risk Retention Requirements,
Chairman of the Financial Stability Oversight Counsel (January 2011), available at
http://www.treasury.gov/initiatives/wsr/Documents/Section 946 Risk Retention Study
(FINAL).pdf.

44

commenters requested that the final rule provide additional options and increased
flexibility for sponsors to comply with the risk retention requirement. In this regard,
several commenters asserted that the final rule should permit third-party credit support as
additional forms of risk retention, including insurance policies, guarantees, liquidity
facilities, and standby letters of credit. One commenter stated that such unfunded forms
of credit support are permitted by the European risk retention framework and allowing
similar options would provide greater consistency between the U.S. and European rules.
This commenter further contended that the final rule, at a minimum, should permit such
forms of unfunded risk retention for a subset of sponsors, such as regulated banks. A few
commenters requested that overcollateralization be permitted as an alternative method of
risk retention. Further, the agencies received several comments requesting that the final
rule include an option allowing retention to be held in the form of interests in the
securitized assets themselves. Along these lines, several commenters sought additional
flexibility under the rule to hold risk retention as loan participation interests or
companion notes instead of an ABS interest. One commenter stated that, while the use of
participations in securitization transactions may not currently be customary, sponsors
may find such a structure advantageous in connection with the risk retention
requirements. A few commenters said that pari passu participation interests and
structures using pari passu companion notes have been used in certain types of CMBS
transactions. Other commenters requested that the final rule allow for subordinated
participation interests. These commenters said pari passu participations should qualify as
vertical risk retention and subordinate participation interests should qualify as horizontal
risk retention. The main reason cited by these commenters for expanding the forms of

45

risk retention recognized under the rule to include this form of retention, other than future
flexibility as to form, was the possibility that the sponsor could hold the same economic
exposure it would have as an ABS interest form of risk retention, while at the same time
incurring lower regulatory capital charges for that exposure by holding it as a loan, and
avoiding consolidation of the structure onto its balance sheet. Another commenter
suggested that the availability of a participation option may be important for commercial
banks because of their existing infrastructure to share risk on a pari passu basis.
One commenter stated that the final rule should provide more flexibility by
allowing sponsors to satisfy their risk retention requirement through a combination of
means and that the rule should not mandate forms of risk retention for specific types of
asset classes or specific types of transactions.
The agencies have carefully considered the comments and are adopting the
proposed menu of options approach to risk retention largely as proposed. The agencies
continue to believe that providing options for risk retention is appropriate in order to
accommodate the variety of securitization structures that will be subject to the final rule
and that the menu of options, as proposed, provides sufficient flexibility for sponsors to
satisfy their risk retention obligations.
After carefully considering the comments requesting loan interests, such as loan
participations, as an option, the agencies have decided not to expand the recognized legal
forms of risk retention under the rule beyond ABS interests by including pari passu
participation interests, subordinated participation interests, pari passu companion notes,
or subordinated companion notes. The agencies are permitting specialized forms of
participations for two particular asset classes as discussed below in connection with CLO

46

securitizations and tender option bonds, subject to several requirements under the rule.
However, the agencies believe that the rule already provides sufficient flexibility as to the
economic forms of risk retention and an additional form of risk retention is not necessary.
The agencies are concerned that offering different legal forms, such as participation
interests or companion loans, as a standard option would introduce substantial complexity
to the rule in order to ensure that these forms of retention were implemented in a way that
ensured that the holder had the same economic exposure as the holder of an ABS interest.
In addition, given the commenters’ reasons for requesting that these options be made
available, the agencies are concerned that permitting these types of interests to be held as
retention could raise concerns about regulatory capital arbitrage.
The agencies do not believe it would be appropriate to allow sponsors to satisfy
risk retention obligations through third-party credit support, such as insurance policies,
guarantees, liquidity facilities, or standby letters of credit. As discussed in the
reproposal, such forms of credit support generally are not funded at closing and therefore
may not be available to absorb losses at the time they occur. Except in the case of the
guarantees from the Enterprises under the conditions specified, which include the
Enterprises’ operating in conservatorship or receivership with capital support from the
United States, the agencies continue to believe that unfunded forms of risk retention fail
to provide sufficient alignment of incentives between sponsors and investors and are not
including them as eligible forms of risk retention.
The final rule does not permit overcollateralization as a standard method of risk
retention. While overcollateralization may provide credit enhancement to a
securitization, the agencies do not believe that a credit risk retention option based solely

47

on a comparison of the face value 51 of the securitized assets and the face value of the
ABS interests would provide meaningful risk retention consistent with the goals and
intent of section 15G because the face value of both the securitized assets and the face
value of the ABS interests can materially differ from their relative value and/or cost to
the sponsor. 52 Moreover, the fair value of an eligible horizontal residual interest takes
into consideration the overcollateralization and excess spread in a securitization
transaction as adjusted by expected loss and other factors. Further, for the reasons
discussed in Part III.B.3 of this Supplementary Information, the final rule does not
include a representative sample option.
As in the reproposal, the permitted forms of risk retention in the final rule are
subject to terms and conditions that are intended to help ensure that the sponsor (or other
eligible entity) retains an economic exposure equivalent to 5 percent of the credit risk of
the securitized assets at a minimum. As described below, the final rule includes several
modifications to the various forms of risk retention, as well as the terms and conditions
that were proposed, to help ensure that sponsors have a meaningful stake in the overall
performance and repayment of the assets that they securitize. Each of the forms of risk

51

The agencies are using the term “face value” to mean the outstanding principal
balance of a loan or other receivable or an ABS interest and, with respect to an asset that
does not have a stated principal balance, it means an equivalent value measurement, such
as securitization value.
52

The agencies have adopted a risk retention option for revolving pool securitizations
that relies heavily on a comparison of the face value of the securitized assets and the face
value of the ABS interests. However, reliance on the seller’s interest option is limited to
revolving pool securitizations that include certain structural features and alignment of
incentives to address many of the concerns the agencies had with respect to the reliance
on face value to measure required credit risk retention. See Part III.B.2 of this
Supplementary Information.

48

retention permitted by the final rule and the measures intended to ensure that sponsors
retain meaningful credit risk are described below.
1. Standard Risk Retention
a.

Structure of Standard Risk Retention Option

Under the revised proposal, standard risk retention could have been used by a
sponsor for any securitization transaction. 53 Standard risk retention could have taken the
form of: (i) vertical risk retention; (ii) horizontal risk retention; and (iii) any combination
of vertical and horizontal risk retention. 54 Under the reproposal, a sponsor would have
been permitted to satisfy its risk retention obligation by retaining an eligible vertical
interest, an eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in a total
amount equal to no less than 5 percent of the fair value of all ABS interests in the issuing
entity that are issued as part of the securitization transaction.
Through the vertical option, the reproposal would have allowed a sponsor to
satisfy its risk retention obligation with respect to a securitization transaction by retaining
at least 5 percent of the fair value of each class of ABS interests issued as part of the
securitization transaction. This would provide the sponsor with an interest in the entire
securitization transaction. As an alternative, the reproposal would have allowed a
sponsor to satisfy its risk retention requirement under the vertical option by retaining a

53

As discussed above, in the original proposal, a sponsor using standard risk retention
would have had to choose between a 5 percent horizontal interest, 5 percent vertical
interest, or a combination of horizontal and vertical interests that was approximately half
horizontal and half vertical. The agencies reproposed standard risk retention with a more
flexible structure in response to concerns raised by commenters on the original proposal.
See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57937.
54

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57937.

49

single vertical security. As discussed in the reproposal, a single vertical security would
be an ABS interest entitling the holder to a specified percentage (e.g., 5 percent) of the
principal and interest paid on each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity (other than
such single vertical security) that result in the security representing the same percentage
of fair value of each class of ABS interests.
Under the reproposal, a sponsor also would have been permitted to satisfy its risk
retention obligation by retaining an eligible horizontal residual interest in the issuing
entity in an amount equal to no less than 5 percent of the fair value of all ABS interests in
the issuing entity that are issued as part of the securitization transaction. In lieu of
holding all or part of its risk retention in the form of an eligible horizontal residual
interest, the reproposal would have allowed a sponsor to cause to be established and
funded, in cash, a reserve account at closing (eligible horizontal cash reserve account) in
an amount equal to the same dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign
currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) as would be required if the
sponsor held an eligible horizontal residual interest. 55
As reproposed, an interest would have qualified as an eligible horizontal residual
interest only if it was an interest in a single class or multiple classes in the issuing entity
with respect to which, on any payment date on which the issuing entity would have
insufficient funds to satisfy its obligation to pay all contractual interest or principal due,
any resulting shortfall would reduce amounts paid to the eligible horizontal residual
interest prior to any reduction in the amounts paid to any other ABS interest until the

55

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR 57939.

50

amount of such ABS interest is reduced to zero. The eligible horizontal residual interest
would have been required to have the most subordinated claim to payments of both
principal and interest by the issuing entity.
Many commenters generally supported the reproposal to allow a sponsor to meet
its risk retention obligation by retaining an eligible vertical residual interest, an eligible
horizontal residual interest, or any combination of such interests. Such commenters
generally approved of the flexibility that the reproposal would provide to sponsors in
structuring their risk retention. Further, one commenter expressed support for the single
vertical security option, asserting that it would simplify compliance and monitoring
obligations of the sponsor. One commenter, however, expressed concern that the
definition of single vertical security could be read as though the security could have
different percentage interests in each class and requested that the definition be amended
to clarify that the specified percentages must result in the fair value of each interest in
each such class being identical.
The agencies received several comments regarding the proposed method by which
a sponsor may satisfy its risk retention requirement by holding an eligible horizontal
residual interest. One commenter sought clarification as to whether advance rates and
overcollateralization, equipment residual values, reserve accounts and third-party credit
enhancement would constitute eligible horizontal residual interests. Another commenter
sought clarification as to whether the eligible horizontal residual interest would be

51

required to have the most subordinated claim to principal collections. 56 Further, one
commenter expressed concern that the eligible horizontal residual interest option would
create a conflict of interest between the sponsor and the holders of the other classes of
securities, to the extent that the servicer would have control over decisions that could
optimize the value of the interest at the expense of other tranches.
Regarding the horizontal cash reserve account, one commenter requested that the
final rule permit a broader range of investments to align with market practice regarding
standard investments used for funds held in collection, reserve and spread accounts.
Another commenter requested that the final rule permit funds from eligible horizontal
cash reserve accounts to be used to pay critical expenses, so long as such expense
payments are made for specified priorities and are disclosed to investors. The commenter
further proposed that no disclosure or calculations should be required for such payments
that are senior to amounts owed to holders of third-party ABS interests or that are made
to transaction parties unaffiliated with the securitizer.
The agencies invited comment on whether the rule should require a minimum
proportion of risk retention held by a sponsor under the standard risk retention option to
be composed of a vertical component or a horizontal component. Further, the agencies
invited comment on whether a sponsor should be required to hold a higher percentage of
risk retention if the sponsor retains only an eligible vertical interest or very little
horizontal interest. The agencies did not receive any comments in favor of these options.

56

In response to a similar comment, the agencies confirm that a structure under which
the interest is at the bottom of the priority of payments provisions, or last in line for
payment, would satisfy this requirement whether or not the interest is “legally”
subordinated.

52

One commenter expressed opposition to any requirement for a minimum vertical or
horizontal component, claiming that such a requirement would increase compliance costs
and increase the risk that sponsors would, as a result of accounting standards, have to
consolidate securitization entities into their financial statements. In addition, two
commenters expressed opposition to any higher risk retention requirement for sponsors
retaining only a vertical interest.
Several commenters expressed opinions on the effect that the proposed standard
risk retention option would have on decisions by sponsors regarding whether they are
obligated by accounting standards to consolidate a securitization vehicle into their
financial statements. Two commenters asserted that, because of the flexibility of the
proposed standard risk retention option, in and of itself, the option would not cause a
sponsor to have to consolidate its securitization vehicles. One of these commenters
observed that case-by-case analyses would be required and that the likelihood of
consolidation would increase as a sponsor retains a greater portion of its required interest
as a horizontal interest. Another commenter asserted that, if potential investors require
the sponsor to hold a horizontal rather than a vertical interest, or a combination, the
consolidation risk will increase. This same commenter stated that forthcoming updated
guidance from the Financial Accounting Standards Board may modify the way sponsors
analyze their consolidation requirements. One commenter asserted that consolidation
concerns may cause broker-dealers to limit their secondary market support, with respect
to certain affiliate transactions, for the duration of the risk retention period and that such
decisions may have an effect on secondary market liquidity. As a way of reducing
consolidation risk, one commenter stated that securitization agreements should be

53

required to give securitization trusts the right to claim 5 percent of losses from
securitizers as they occur. Such losses, the commenter asserted, should be held as
contingent liabilities on securitizers’ balance sheets, against which reserves would need
to be held.
The agencies have carefully considered comments on the reproposed structure of
the standard risk retention option and, for the reasons discussed below and in the
reproposal, have decided to adopt the approach as set forth in the revised proposal with
some modifications. However, in the final rule the agencies are adopting several changes
to the manner in which risk retention must be measured and are eliminating the
restrictions on cash flow to the eligible horizontal residual interest. These changes are
discussed in Part III.B.1 of this Supplementary Information.
Consistent with the reproposal, the final rule allows a sponsor to satisfy its risk
retention obligation by retaining an eligible vertical interest, an eligible horizontal
residual interest, or any combination thereof, as long as the percentage of the eligible
vertical interest claimed as retention under the rule, when added to the percentage of the
fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest claimed as retention for purposes of
the rule equals no less than five. The final rule does not mandate a minimum or specific
percentage of horizontal or vertical interest that sponsors must hold when they choose to
satisfy their risk retention obligation by holding a combination of vertical and horizontal
interests, nor does the final rule require sponsors to hold a higher percentage of risk
retention if the sponsor retains only an eligible vertical interest. The agencies added
language to the final rule clarifying that the requisite percentage of eligible vertical

54

interest, eligible horizontal residual interest, or combination thereof retained by the
sponsor must be determined as of the closing date of the securitization transaction. 57
The final rule allows a sponsor to satisfy its risk retention obligation under the
vertical option by retaining a portion of each class of the ABS interests issued in the
transaction or a single vertical security which represents an interest in each class of the
ABS interests issued in the securitization. The rule specifies the minimum retention to be
held by a sponsor. As such, the fact that provisions such as the definition of eligible
vertical interest and single vertical security require the sponsor to hold the same
proportion of or interest in each class of ABS interests does not preclude the sponsor
from holding different proportions of or in each class. However, it does preclude the
sponsor from claiming risk retention credit under the rule for any proportional interest in
a class that is not the same across all classes. For example, a sponsor which holds a
vertical interest of 5 percent of the most junior class and 3 percent of all other classes
issued by the entity can only claim credit for a 3 percent vertical interest.

57

For example, a sponsor electing to hold risk retention in the form of a combined
horizontal and vertical interest could determine the minimum amount required to be
retained pursuant to the rule by determining the percentage of fair value represented by
the sponsor’s eligible horizontal residual interest, and then supplementing that amount
with a vertical interest of a sufficient percentage so that the sum of the two percentage
numbers equals five. To illustrate: if a sponsor holds an eligible horizontal residual
interest with a fair value of 3.25 percent of the fair value of all the ABS interests in the
issuing entity, the sponsor must also hold (at a minimum) a vertical interest equal to 1.75
percent of each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity. Alternatively, the sponsor
may retain a single vertical security representing 1.75 percent of the cash flows paid on
each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity (other than the single vertical security
itself). The rule does not prohibit the sponsor from retaining additional amounts of
horizontal interests, vertical interests, or both.

55

A sponsor choosing to satisfy its retention obligation solely through the retention
of an interest in each class of ABS interest issued will be required to retain at least 5
percent of each class of ABS interests issued as part of the securitization transaction. A
sponsor using this approach will be required to retain at least 5 percent of each class of
ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction regardless of the nature of the class
of ABS interests (e.g., senior or subordinated) and regardless of whether the class of
interests has a face or par value, was issued in certificated form, or was sold to
unaffiliated investors. For example, if four classes of ABS interests are issued by an
issuing entity as part of a securitization – a senior-rated class, a subordinated class, an
interest-only class, and a residual interest – a sponsor using this approach with respect to
the transaction will have to retain at least 5 percent of each such class or interest. If a
class of interests has no face value, the sponsor will have to hold an interest in 5 percent
of the cash flows paid on that class.
If a sponsor opts to satisfy its risk retention requirement solely by retaining a
single vertical security, that ABS interest must entitle the holder to 5 percent of the cash
flows paid on each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity (other than such single
vertical security). This will provide sponsors an option that is simpler than carrying
multiple securities representing a percentage share of every series, tranche, and class
issued by the issuing entity, each of which might need to be valued by the sponsor on its
financial statements every financial reporting period. The single vertical security option
will provide the sponsor with the same principal and interest payments (and losses) as a 5
percent ownership of each series, class, or tranche of the securitization, in the form of one
security to be held on the sponsor’s books.

56

Also consistent with the revised proposal, the final rule allows a sponsor to satisfy
its risk retention obligation exclusively through the horizontal option by retaining a first
loss eligible horizontal residual interest in the issuing entity in an amount equal to no less
than 5 percent of the fair value of all ABS interests in the issuing entity that are issued as
part of the securitization transaction. The eligible horizontal residual interest may consist
of either a single class or multiple classes in the issuing entity, provided that each interest
qualifies, individually or in the aggregate, as an eligible horizontal residual interest. 58 In
the case of multiple classes, this requirement will mean that the classes must be in
consecutive order based on subordination level. For example, if there are three levels of
subordinated classes and the two most subordinated classes have a combined fair value
equal to 5 percent of all ABS interests, the sponsor will be required to retain these two
most subordinated classes if it is going to satisfy its risk retention obligation by holding
only eligible horizontal residual interests.
In lieu of holding all or part of its risk retention in the form of an eligible
horizontal residual interest, the final rule will allow a sponsor to cause to be established
and funded, in cash, an eligible horizontal cash reserve account, at closing, in an amount
equal to the same dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in
which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) as would be required if the sponsor
held an eligible horizontal residual interest. As described in the reproposal, the eligible
horizontal cash reserve account will have to be held by a trustee (or person performing
functions similar to a trustee) for the benefit of the issuing entity. Consistent with the

58

See section 2 of the final rule (definition of “eligible horizontal residual interest”).

57

reproposal, the final rule includes several important restrictions and limitations on the
eligible horizontal cash reserve account to ensure that a sponsor that establishes an
eligible horizontal cash reserve account will be exposed to the same amount and type of
credit risk on the securitized assets as would be the case if the sponsor held an eligible
horizontal residual interest. The intention of these restrictions is to ensure amounts in the
account would be available to absorb losses to the same extent as an eligible horizontal
residual interest. Therefore, investments of funds in the account and uses of the account
are limited. The agencies are not following commenters’ suggestion to broaden the range
of permissible investments of funds in the horizontal cash reserve account because that
could undermine the capacity of the account to absorb losses as they occur to the same
extent as an eligible horizontal residual interest. Any use of funds other than loss
coverage could result in fewer funds to absorb losses later. The types of permissible
investments likewise are restricted to cash and cash equivalents in order to ensure that the
account will not incur investment losses and reduce the capacity of the account to absorb
losses of the securitization transaction. The agencies view “cash equivalents” to mean
high-quality, highly-liquid short-term investments the maturity of which corresponds to the
securitization’s expected maturity or potential need for funds and that are denominated in a
currency that corresponds to either the securitized assets or the ABS interests. Depending on
the specific funding needs of a particular securitization, “cash equivalents” might include
deposits insured by the FDIC, certificates of deposit issued by a regulated U.S. financial
institution, obligations backed by the full faith and credit of the United States, investments in
registered money market funds, and commercial paper. For securitization transactions

whose securitized assets or ABS interests are denominated in a foreign currency, cash
equivalents would include cash equivalents denominated in the foreign currency. The
58

agencies believe that the permitted investment options provide sufficient flexibility to
sponsors that choose to create an eligible horizontal cash reserve account, while ensuring
that such sponsors will be exposed to the same amount and type of credit risk as would be
the case if the sponsor held an eligible horizontal residual interest.
In response to commenter concerns, the agencies believe that it would not violate
the requirements of the eligible horizontal cash reserve account if as a result of a shortfall
in the available cash flow, critical expenses of the trust unrelated to credit risk, such as
litigation expenses or trustee or servicer expenses, are paid from an eligible horizontal
cash reserve account, so long as such payments, in the absence of available funds in the
eligible horizontal cash reserve account, would be paid prior to any payments to holders
of ABS interests and such payments are made to parties that are not affiliated with the
sponsor.
The agencies believe the standard risk retention option, as adopted, provides
sponsors with flexibility in choosing how to structure their retention of credit risk in a
manner that is compatible with current practices in the securitization markets. For
example, in securitization transactions where the sponsor would typically retain less than
5 percent of an eligible horizontal residual interest, the standard risk retention option will
permit the sponsor to hold the balance of the risk retention as a vertical interest. Each
sponsor will have to separately analyze whether the particular option the sponsor selects
under the rule requires the sponsor to consolidate the assets and liabilities of a
securitization vehicle onto its own balance sheet for accounting purposes. The rule itself
does not provide guidance on performing the consolidation analysis, either in support of
deconsolidation or in requirement of consolidation.

59

b. Risk Retention Measurement and Disclosures
As explained in the revised proposal, to provide greater clarity for the
measurement of risk retention and to help prevent sponsors from structuring around their
risk retention requirement by negating or reducing the economic exposure they are
required to maintain, the agencies proposed to require sponsors to measure their risk
retention requirement using fair valuation methodologies acceptable under GAAP. 59
Several commenters supported the proposed requirement that sponsors measure
their risk retention requirement using fair value. These commenters expressed the view
that the use of fair value would be a more prudent approach than using face value and
would be consistent with market practice. Other commenters, however, expressed
general concern with the proposed method by which sponsors would be required to
measure their risk retention. One commenter asserted that using fair value instead of face
value would require sponsors to hold higher risk retention levels and attract additional
investor capital, leading to higher borrowing costs. Two commenters explained that
many sponsors who consolidate their issuing entities or keep their securitizations on their
balance sheets do not currently utilize fair value calculations, and that requiring such
sponsors to measure their risk retention with fair value would create significant burden
and expense.
Commenters expressed several specific accounting concerns regarding the use of
fair value to measure risk retention. Two commenters asserted that calculation of fair
value under GAAP is not designed to provide a definitive value, but a range of values. In

59

Cf. Financial Accounting Standards Board, Accounting Standards Codification Topic
820 – Fair Value Measurement.

60

this regard, they expressed concerns about how the requirements could be met if a
sponsor calculates multiple possible fair values. One commenter asserted that requiring
sponsors to determine fair value in accordance with GAAP would be burdensome for
securitization transactions where the sponsor (or other retaining entity) is established
outside the United States, giving rise to additional work and costs. For such transactions,
the commenter urged the agencies to allow sponsors to measure fair value using local
(non-U.S.) GAAP or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). One
commenter asserted that GAAP does not prescribe use of a single valuation technique,
but allows entities to use various techniques, including market, income and cost
approaches. The commenter stated, however, that the reproposal implied that sponsors
would be limited to specific valuation techniques and requested that the final rule clarify
that sponsors are not so restricted. The commenter also asserted that the reproposal
equated intrinsic value with fair value, which are distinct standards of value. In this
regard, the commenter stated that reference to intrinsic value should either be excluded
from the final rule or the agencies should clarify that intrinsic and fair value are two
separate concepts.
The agencies invited comment in the reproposal on whether accountants would be
asked to perform agreed upon procedures reports related to measurement of the fair value
of sponsors’ retained ABS interests. One commenter responded that such requests would
be unlikely and requested that the agencies not mandate agreed upon procedures in the
final rule.
One commenter stated that sponsors should be permitted to measure their risk
retention requirement by using either fair value or securitization value (the value

61

specified in the operative documents for the securitization transaction, subject to certain
limitations) methodology. The commenter stated that securitization value is familiar to
sponsors and investors, and permitting its use would accommodate a range of current
industry practices. The commenter also stated that securitization value would be easier to
compute than fair value.
One commenter asserted that any required risk retention amount for ABCP
conduits should be calculated by reference to the principal balance, and not the fair value,
of the ABS interests and asserted that using fair value will be difficult, expensive and
unnecessary, especially given the revolving nature of the asset pool. Commenters also
requested clarification as to whether, when they are calculating the fair value with respect
to revolving pool of assets, they can make static pool assumptions.
Having considered the comments described above, the agencies are adopting a
fair value framework substantially similar to the reproposal for calculating eligible
horizontal residual interests in the final rule. As discussed in the reproposal, this
measurement uses methods consistent with valuation methodologies familiar to market
participants and provides a consistent framework for calculating residual risk retention
across different securitization transactions. It also takes into account various economic
factors that may affect the securitization transaction, which should aid investors in
assessing the degree to which a sponsor is exposed to the risk of the securitized assets.
As discussed below, in response to commenters the agencies are not adopting the
proposed fair value measurement requirement for eligible vertical interests because such
measurement is not necessary to ensure that the sponsor has retained 5 percent of the
credit risk of the ABS interests issued.

62

Consistent with the reproposal, the agencies are not modifying the final rule to
allow for calculation of fair value using the fair value measurement framework under
local GAAP or IFRS for securitization transactions where the sponsor is established
outside the United States. The agencies believe that, as of the time the final rule is
adopted, these alternative valuation frameworks and GAAP have common requirements
for measuring fair value, which should minimize the burden to sponsors established
outside the United States of measuring fair value using the GAAP framework. The
agencies believe that the benefits of being able to easily compare the fair value of risk
retention in two separate issuances of ABS interests regardless of where the sponsors are
established outweigh any minimal burden imposed by the requirement to use GAAP fair
value.
In response to commenters’ concerns about the burden of repeatedly calculating
fair value for a constantly changing pool of securitized assets, the agencies believe that
no change to the reproposed rule is required. Under the final rule, only those
securitization transactions in which the issuing entity issues ABS interests more than
once need to calculate the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest multiple
times. The final rule provides specific risk retention options for most sponsors of
securitizations that issue multiple series of ABS interests, including revolving pool
securitizations, tender option bond programs and ABCP conduits. The agencies also note
that those securitization structures which issue ABS interests on a frequent basis,
primarily ABCP conduits and tender option bond programs, typically issue short-term
securities for which the fair value calculation should be less complex. The agencies are
clarifying that, to the extent that a sponsor uses a valuation methodology that calculates

63

fair value based on the pool of securitized assets as of a certain date, the sponsor of a
securitization of a revolving or dynamic pool of securitized assets would be able to
calculate the fair value of the ABS interests using data with respect to the securitized
assets as of a cut-off date, as described below, which the agencies believe should alleviate
some of the concerns expressed by commenters about the burden of repeatedly
calculating the fair value of the ABS interests issued. The agencies believe that this
approach appropriately balances commenters’ concerns with the agencies’ policy goals of
providing appropriate transparency into a sponsor’s calculation of the fair value of ABS
interests under the final rule.
Additionally, the agencies have concerns that the alternative suggested by
commenters of calculating fair value no more than once per month would create
unintended consequences. For instance, the calculation of fair value of ABS interests up
to a month before the issuance of those ABS interests or up to a month after the issuance
of those ABS interests could result in disclosure to investors based on unreliable
assumptions about pricing and the expected volume of ABS interests to be issued and
possibly the issuance of ABS interests in violation of the sponsor’s risk retention
requirements.
Under the final rule, to the extent a sponsor uses a valuation methodology that
calculates fair value based on the pool of securitized assets as of a certain date, a sponsor
would be permitted to use a cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition
and characteristics of the pool of securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed
securities that is not more than 60 days prior to the date of first use of the fair value
calculation with investors, except in the case of a securitization transaction that makes

64

distributions to investors on a quarterly or less frequent basis, in which case the sponsor
may use a cut-off date or similar date not more than 135 days prior to the date of first use
of the fair value calculation with investors. 60 The final rule requires that disclosures to
investors be based on information about the asset pool (such as the characteristics of and
assumptions regarding the pool that will be used to determine fair value) as of the cut-off
date specified by the sponsor. The actual balance of the securitized assets (and the
calculation of fair value) may include anticipated additions to and removals of assets that
the sponsor will make between the cut-off date and the closing date. For purposes of the
fair value calculation, the ABS interests must include all ABS interests issued prior to,
and expected to be issued in, the pending offering of ABS interests. 61 The agencies
believe this will accommodate the reporting described by commenters and the evaluation
of pool assets suggested by commenters with respect to fair value calculations. The
agencies recognize that not all securitization transactions update information about
securitized assets on a monthly basis. The final rule permits sponsors to rely on
information about the securitized assets based on a date not more than 135 days prior to
the date of first use with investors for subsequent issuances of ABS interests by the same

60

The agencies expect that a sponsor will include disclosure about the cut-off date as an
aspect of the fair valuation methodology it used.
61

The sponsor may include adjustments to the balance of ABS interests that are expected
to occur in the ordinary course of events, such as scheduled principal reductions and
planned issuances expected to occur after the pending offering of ABS interests.

65

issuing entity with the same sponsor for which the securitization transaction distributes
amounts to investors on a quarterly or less frequent basis. 62
As discussed in the reproposal, fair value is a measurement framework that
requires an extensive use of judgment for certain types of financial instruments, for which
significant unobservable inputs are necessary to determine their fair value. To provide
transparency to investors, regulators and others on how the sponsor calculates fair value
in order to determine its eligible horizontal residual interest, and to ensure that this
calculation adequately reflects the amount of a sponsor’s economic “skin in the game,”
the agencies proposed to require disclosure of the sponsor’s fair value methodology and
all significant inputs used to measure its eligible horizontal residual interest. Under the
reproposal, sponsors that elected to utilize the horizontal risk retention option would have
been required to disclose the reference data set or other historical information used to
develop the key inputs and assumptions intended to meaningfully inform third parties of
the reasonableness of the key cash flow assumptions underlying the measure of fair
value. Such key assumptions could include default, prepayment, and recovery. As
discussed in the reproposal, the agencies believed that these valuation inputs would help
investors assess whether the fair value measure used by the sponsor to determine the
amount of its risk retention is comparable to investors’ expectations.

62

The 135-day period provides sponsors with approximately 45 days after the end of any
quarter in which to provide the required information to investors if the issuing entity
makes distributions to investors no more frequently than quarterly. This period parallels
timeframes for prospectus and static pool information under Regulation AB. See Items
1104 and 1105 of Regulation AB.

66

Specifically, with respect to eligible horizontal residual interests, the reproposal
would have required that sponsors provide (or cause to be provided) to potential investors
a reasonable time prior to the sale of ABS interests in the issuing entity and, upon
request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency (if any) disclosure
of:
•

The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all ABS

interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding
amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of
the eligible horizontal residual interest that would be retained (or was retained) by the
sponsor at closing, and the fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all
ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding
amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of
the eligible horizontal residual interest required to be retained by the sponsor in
connection with the securitization transaction;
•

A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual

interest to be retained by the sponsor;
•

A description of the methodology used to calculate the fair value of all

classes of ABS interests;
•

The key inputs and assumptions used in measuring the total fair value of

all classes of ABS interests and the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest
retained by the sponsor (including the range of information considered in arriving at such
key inputs and assumptions and an indication of the weight ascribed thereto) and the
sponsor’s technique(s) to derive the key inputs; and

67

•

The historical data that would enable investors and other stakeholders to

assess the reasonableness of the key cash flow assumptions underlying the fair value of
the eligible horizontal residual interest. Examples of key cash flow assumptions may
include default, prepayment, and recovery.
The agencies received significant comment on the proposed disclosure
requirements with respect to the eligible horizontal residual interest, particularly
regarding the proposed timing of disclosures and fair value calculations. Commenters
expressed a number of concerns regarding the pre-sale disclosure requirement. Several
commenters stated that there is an inherent conflict between the proposed requirement
that fair value disclosures be made a reasonable time prior to the sale of ABS interests
and the requirement that fair value be determined as of the day on which the price of the
ABS interests to be sold to third parties is determined. Further, several commenters
asserted that the most objective and accurate way to calculate fair value is to base the
valuation on an observable market price, but this option is unavailable to sponsors in
advance of pricing. In order to comply with the pre-sale disclosure requirement, they
contended that sponsors would be required to make material assumptions, based on less
reliable secondary sources, regarding interest, default, recovery and prepayment rates, as
well as timing of reinvestments for revolving pools. Doing so, they asserted, would often
result in differences between the pre-sale and final fair value and would confuse
investors.
One commenter raised a concern about the proposed requirement that fair value
be calculated as of the day on which the price of ABS interests sold to third-party
investors is determined. The commenter, asserting that pricing for different classes in

68

single-securitization transactions often occurs on different days, urged the agencies to
clarify that the determination of fair value should be done for all classes of asset-backed
securities at a single time after a specified percentage threshold of classes of asset-backed
securities have priced.
As a proposed solution to the timing concerns summarized above, two
commenters recommended that the final rule should require fair value determinations to
be made after pricing but before closing of the transaction. The commenters stated that
this would allow sponsors to more accurately determine fair value based on pricing of the
securitization transaction. The commenters further stated that sponsors could still be
required to disclose the expected form of risk retention prior to sale, but they should only
be required to determine the fair value of those interests shortly after pricing.
In addition to timing concerns, many commenters expressed concerns about the
proposed requirement that sponsors disclose the key inputs and assumptions used in
measuring fair value and the sponsor’s technique(s) used to derive the key inputs. Two
commenters specifically stated that requiring such disclosures may mislead investors by
making such inputs and assumptions seem authoritative. Further, several commenters
asserted that the proposal would require sponsors to disclose information that is
proprietary, highly confidential and commercially sensitive. Such information, they
contended, could be used by third parties to the competitive disadvantage of the sponsor.
One commenter raised specific concerns regarding the disclosure of reference data sets,
noting that disclosure of such information could allow the reverse-engineering of
proprietary models.

69

While two commenters expressed support for the reproposal’s requirements that
sponsors disclose the various components that were used to make fair value
determinations, many others requested significant modifications to the disclosure
requirements. Several commenters asserted that the rule should only require a simple
disclosure to the effect that risk retention has been measured as required by the final rule.
Several commenters stated that sponsors should only be required to make disclosures to
the Commission and banking agencies, rather than to investors. Two such commenters
proposed that issuers should be required to retain the documentation about assumptions
and methodology used in calculating their risk retention obligations for a specified period
of time and make such information available for inspection by the Commission and
banking agencies, if requested. Further, one commenter proposed that sponsors should
only be required to provide the agencies with a post-securitization fair value report within
a reasonable time after the issue date.
Significant concern was raised regarding potential liability and litigation that
commenters stated may result when fair value projections, assumptions and calculations
disclosed to investors turn out to be incorrect. A few commenters expressed the view that
liability risk would be particularly high from incorrect loss projections. Several
commenters asserted that litigation risks may undermine the horizontal option by
convincing many sponsors to rely instead on the vertical option. Another commenter
asserted such concerns may convince sponsors to hold risk retention closer to the 5
percent minimum than they otherwise would because it is easier to demonstrate that a
projected 5 percent risk retention would be accomplished than it would be for a larger
percentage. Several commenters urged the agencies to provide a safe harbor from

70

liability for all fair value calculations, which would protect sponsors as long as the
methodology and assumptions used to make such calculations are reasonable and made in
good faith.
Two commenters proposed that for simple structures, sponsors should not be
required to make fair value determinations or related disclosures, nor should the cash
flow restriction (as described below) apply. The commenters requested that such relief
be provided to structures with the following characteristics: (1) the principal amount of
the ABS interests sold to third parties is less than 95 percent of the principal amount of
the securitized assets (and, in the case of pre-funded transactions, any cash held in a prefunded account); (2) the weighted average interest rate (for leases, the implicit interest
rate used to calculate the lease payments) on the securitized assets (or the discount rate in
the case of a securitization value calculation) is not expected to be less than the timeweighted average interest rate on the ABS interests sold to third parties (for revolving and
pre-funded transactions, this condition would be satisfied upon the completion of each
addition of additional assets); (3) all of the ABS interests sold to third parties are
traditional interest-bearing debt securities; and (4) the residual interest retained by the
sponsor or other holder of a retained interest otherwise meets the requirements of an
eligible horizontal residual interest.
The agencies have carefully considered the concerns of commenters with respect
to the proposed disclosure requirements related to the fair value calculation of eligible
horizontal residual interests. The agencies continue to believe that it is important to the
functioning of the final rule to ensure that investors and the markets, as well as
regulators, are provided with key information about the methodology and assumptions

71

used by sponsors under the final rule to calculate the amount of their eligible horizontal
residual interests using the fair value measurement framework under GAAP. As the
agencies have previously observed, fair value is a measurement framework that for
certain types of instruments requires an extensive use of judgment. In situations where
significant unobservable inputs are used to determine fair value, disclosures of those
assumptions are necessary to enable investors to effectively evaluate the fair value
calculation. Therefore, the agencies are generally retaining the proposed fair value
disclosure requirements with some modifications in response to commenter concerns, as
further discussed below.
The agencies have considered the concerns raised by commenters about the
potential conflict between pre-sale disclosure and timing of the fair value measurement.
The agencies believe that it is important that investors be provided with information that
would allow them to better evaluate how sponsors will measure the fair value of the
eligible horizontal residual interest to be retained and that such information be provided
prior to the investor’s investment decision. The final rule continues to require certain fair
value disclosures to be provided to investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale
of an asset-backed security. Nonetheless, the agencies recognize that any valuation
information given prior to sale may often be preliminary. Therefore, the agencies have
revised the final rule to address these concerns. The final rule allows sponsors, for
disclosures provided prior to sale, to disclose the sponsor’s determination of a range of
fair values for the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor expects to retain at
the close of the securitization transaction. Under the final rule, a sponsor may provide a
range of fair values for the eligible horizontal residual interest only if the specific series,

72

sizes or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization are not available.
Additionally, this range of fair values must be based on a range of bona fide estimates or
specified prices, sizes, or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization. The
agencies note that in practice this will allow the sponsor to provide fair value disclosures
based on the pricing guidance traditionally provided to investors prior to sale. 63 The
sponsor must also disclose the method by which it determined any range of bona fide
estimates or specified prices, tranche sizes or rates of interest.
The final rule also requires the sponsor to provide to investors a reasonable time
after the closing of the securitization transaction the actual fair value measurement of the
ABS interests and the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor is required to
retain, expressed as a dollar amount and percentage. This post-closing disclosure must be
based on actual sale prices and finalized tranche sizes and corresponding interest rates at
the closing of the securitization transaction.
The agencies continue to believe that the fair value of the eligible horizontal
residual interest held by the sponsor as calculated post-closing must not be less than the
amount required under the rule to be held by the sponsor. Although commenters
expressed some concern about possible adjustments to the transaction occurring prior to
closing that may impact the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest, the

63

The agencies expect that the range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, tranche
sizes or rates of interest should be reasonably narrow, reflecting then current market
conditions and the relationship between the sponsor’s range of bona fide estimates or
specified prices, tranche sizes or rates of interest and the historical data or other
information used to derive the range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, tranche
sizes or rates of interest. The agencies also expect that in most instances the range of
assumed sale prices and tranche sizes will correspond closely to any pricing guidance
provided to potential purchasers prior to sale.

73

agencies expect that, if necessary, as part of the pricing process, the sponsor will make
adjustments to tranche sizes, increase the percentage of vertical interest retained by the
sponsor, or otherwise take actions to ensure that the actual fair value of the eligible
horizontal residual interest held by the sponsor satisfies the sponsor’s risk retention
obligations.
The sponsor also must disclose at that time any material differences between the
inputs and assumptions that had been disclosed by the sponsor to potential investors prior
to sale (as required by the final rule) and the actual methodology, inputs, and assumptions
used by the sponsor to measure fair value for purposes of the final rule. The agencies
believe that this bifurcated approach to the timing of disclosures, as well as clarification
that the pre-closing disclosures are based on a sponsor’s range of bona fide estimates or
specified prices, tranche sizes or rates of interest with relation to the fair value
measurement of the ABS interests, should effectively balance the benefits investors and
others receive from the disclosures against the concerns of sponsors.
The final rule generally retains the proposed requirement that the sponsor disclose
a description of the methodology it uses to measure the fair value of the ABS interests
and its eligible horizontal residual interest. For example, under the final rule sponsors are
required to disclose the valuation methodology the sponsor used to determine fair value,
such as discounted cash flow analysis, comparable market data, vendor pricing, or
internal-model based analysis.
As discussed above, a number of commenters expressed concern about
heightened legal risk and other risks due to the proposed requirement to disclose
quantitative information about key inputs and assumptions, and various commenters

74

requested that the agencies not require these disclosures to be provided to investors. The
agencies continue to believe that disclosure of descriptive information with respect to key
inputs and assumptions used in fair value measurement is important for helping investors
to assess whether the fair value measure used by the sponsor to determine its eligible
horizontal residual interest is comparable to market expectations. However, in response
to commenter concerns, the agencies are modifying these requirements to take into
account the preliminary and estimated nature of pricing information that may need to be
used to calculate fair value prior to the sale of an asset-backed security.
The agencies believe that the disclosure required by the accounting standards that
gives investors and others an understanding of how companies measure fair value is also
pertinent to investors’ and regulators’ understanding how sponsors calculate the fair
value of their eligible horizontal residual interests under the rule. Therefore, the final rule
requires that the sponsor disclose, at a minimum, a description of all the inputs and
assumptions it uses to calculate the fair value of the ABS interests and its eligible
horizontal residual interest, including, as applicable and relevant to the calculation,
disclosures on discount rates, loss given default (recovery rates), prepayment rates,
default rates, the lag time between default and recovery, and the basis of forward interest
rates used. The agencies have not prescribed the exact format of the description of key
inputs and assumptions that sponsors are required to provide under the final rule. The
agencies expect that the format of the required description will be tailored to the key
inputs and assumptions and the reference data sets or other historical information
underlying those key inputs and assumptions being described. The agencies believe that

75

the descriptions may be disclosed in quantitative or narrative form or in a graphical or
tabular format, as appropriate.
The sponsor is required to provide descriptions of all inputs and assumptions that
either could have a material impact on the fair value calculation or would be material to a
prospective investor’s ability to evaluate the sponsor’s fair value calculations. The
required description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest to be
retained by the sponsor should include a description of the rate of interest and other
payment terms, including contractually pre-determined events that would reasonably be
likely to result in a materially disproportionate payment of principal to the holder of the
residual interest, as well as any reductions in overcollateralization. To the extent the
required disclosure includes a description of a curve or curves in connection with the
sponsor’s fair value calculations, the sponsor must disclose a description of the
methodology that was used to derive each curve and a description of any aspects or
features of each curve that could materially impact the fair value calculation or the ability
of a prospective investor to evaluate the sponsor’s fair value calculation. The agencies
expect that a description of the material aspects of a curve would include any aspects of
the curve that could be reasonably expected to have a material impact on the timing and
amounts of distributions expected to be paid to the holder of the eligible horizontal
residual interest (or released from the eligible horizontal cash reserve account).
For example, if the sponsor uses curves with respect to certain key inputs and
assumptions in the fair value calculations, the agencies expect that the description of
those key inputs and assumptions would not assume straight lines (e.g., zero-loss
assumptions). As a further example, if the sponsor uses a prepayment curve to calculate

76

the fair value of the ABS interests and its eligible horizontal residual interest for a
residential mortgage securitization transaction, the disclosure might indicate that
estimated annual prepayments are expected to range from X percent to Y percent, notably
increasing after 36 months of amortization and peaking after 84 months of amortization.
Furthermore, to the extent the inputs and assumptions are observable and based on
market prices or other public information, the sponsor should disclose those inputs and
assumptions or their source in order to fulfill its requirement under the final rule.
The post-closing fair value disclosure, which is required a reasonable time after
the closing, obligates the sponsor to disclose any material differences between the range
of bona fide estimates or specified prices, tranche sizes or rates of interests disclosed
previously, as the case may be, and the actual prices, tranche sizes or rates of interest
used by the sponsor in its calculation of the fair value under the rule for the ABS interests
sold at closing. This permits sponsors to use the actual pricing of the ABS interests as the
basis for their final disclosure requirement, which addresses certain of the concerns raised
by commenters discussed above.
The agencies believe that the revisions made to the rule appropriately balance the
agencies’ concerns that fair value disclosure requirements adequately allow an investor to
analyze the amount of a sponsor’s economic “skin in the game” with commenters’
concerns about the level of detail required by the fair value disclosure requirements.
The agencies observe that financial companies commonly provide company or
portfolio-level disclosure in their financial statements about estimated ranges (and
weighted averages) for certain inputs, such as interest rates and prepayment rates.
Furthermore, sponsors of recent publicly-offered securitization transactions have

77

disclosed modeling assumptions for prepayment rates based on the characteristics of
securitized loans. The agencies believe that the disclosures required under the final rule
are similar in nature, albeit more detailed, than these public disclosures already being
made for financial reporting and similar purposes. The agencies understand that some
types of inputs and assumptions have generally not been publicly disclosed, and that most
sponsors have disclosed certain inputs at the balance sheet or portfolio level for different
types of assets, with varying degrees of granularity that have generally not included
disclosures for individual transactions. However, the agencies observe that some of the
concerns that commenters have raised about potential liability for disclosure of inputs and
assumptions at the transactional level could also be pertinent at the portfolio level if the
inputs and assumptions were later proved incorrect. Furthermore, the agencies believe
that the modifications to the disclosure requirement that permit the sponsor to disclose a
range of fair values based on assumptions about pricing, appropriately balances
commenters’ concerns with the agencies’ policy goals of providing appropriate
transparency into a sponsor’s calculation of the fair value of ABS interests and eligible
horizontal residual interest under the final rule. In response to commenters’ concerns
about the proposed requirement to disclose the reference data set or other historical
information used to develop the key inputs and assumptions used in the fair value
measurement of the ABS interests, the agencies have modified significantly that
requirement in the final rule. The agencies understand there may be significant legal
concerns with disclosing this data, including the proprietary nature and value of the data
and contractual restrictions with respect to disclosure when the data is provided by third
parties. The agencies believe that investors may in many cases independently obtain

78

representative data sets for evaluating the ABS interests offered for purposes of
evaluating the sponsor’s fair value measurement, including the disclosures on the
sponsor’s inputs and assumptions required by the final rule and described above.
The final rule requires that the sponsor provide a summary description of the
reference data set or other historical information used to develop the key inputs and
assumptions used in the sponsor’s calculation of the fair value of the ABS interests,
including loss given default and default rates. This disclosure should meaningfully
inform third parties of the reasonableness of the key cash flow assumptions underlying
the sponsor’s measurement of fair value. Relevant information may include the number
of data points, the time period covered by the data set, the identity of the party that
collected the data, the purpose for which the data was collected and, if the data is publicly
available, how the data may be accessed. The agencies believe that this represents an
appropriate balance between the information required for an investor to evaluate the
sponsor’s fair value disclosure and commenter’s concerns about the disclosure of the
reference data set or other historical information. In response to commenters’ requests
that the agencies provide a safe harbor from liability for all fair value calculations, as
long as the methodology and assumptions used to make such calculations are reasonable
and made in good faith, the agencies do not believe a new safe harbor is necessary. The
final rule does not alter any existing antifraud liability provisions of the Federal securities
laws. Furthermore, sponsors may provide additional disclosure to take advantage of the

79

existing safe harbor for forward-looking statements under section 27A of the Securities
Act, 64 if applicable, and the “bespeaks caution” defense developed through case law. 65
To this end, the sponsor should consider carefully the disclosure requirements
under the Federal securities laws. The sponsor should be cognizant of surrounding
disclosure and should determine if the disclosure of such fair value methodology and
related assumptions requires additional statements or information. 66
To the extent the assumptions made in connection with the methodology used to
measure fair value are not entirely consistent with other disclosure regarding the
securitization structure and the transaction parties, the sponsor may need to include
additional statements or information that reduce the potential confusion among investors.
Alternatively, to the extent allowed under the fair value measurement framework under
GAAP, a sponsor could use a methodology and assumptions that are more consistent with
the sponsor’s other disclosures regarding the securitization structure and the transaction
parties.
The agencies did not provide an option for “simple structures” based on the face
value of the securitized assets and the face value of the ABS interests. The agencies
believe that the face value of both the securitized assets and the face value of the ABS

64

See 15 U.S.C. 77z-2.

65

See, e.g., Polin v. Conductron Corp., 552 F.2d 797, 806 n.28 (8th Cir. 1977); Luce v.
Edelstein, 802 F.2d 49, 56 (2d Cir. 1986); In re Donald J. Trump Casino Sec. Litig., 7
F.3d 357, 364 (3d Cir. 1993); P. Stolz Family P’ship L.P. v. Daum, 355 F.3d 92, 96-97
(2d Cir. 2004); and Iowa Pub. Emps.’ Ret. Sys. v. MF Global Ltd., 620 F.3d 137, 141142 (2d Cir. 2010).
66

See, e.g., Rule 408 under the Securities Act; Sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 17(a) of the
Securities Act; Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act; Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act;
and Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange Act.

80

interests do not necessarily reflect the actual value of the securitized assets or the ABS
interests, respectively. For certain assets such as leases, the “face value” of the
underlying assets is a number calculated solely for purposes of the securitization
transaction and the calculation involves many of the inputs and assumptions discussed
above in relation to fair value. The face value of certain ABS interests such as the CMBS
B-piece does not reflect the substantial discount to face value at which such ABS
interests are often sold to investors. As the face value of both the securitized assets and
the face value of the ABS interests can materially differ from their relative value and cost
to the sponsor, the agencies do not believe that a credit risk retention option based solely
on a comparison of the face value of the underlying assets and the face value of the ABS
interests would provide meaningful risk retention consistent with the goals and intent of
section 15G. 67
In addition to the measurement and disclosure requirements applicable to eligible
horizontal residual interests, the reproposal would have required sponsors holding their
risk retention through eligible vertical interests to measure such interests using fair value
and to comply with certain disclosure requirements. With respect to the vertical option,
the reproposal would have required that sponsors provide (or cause to be provided) to
potential investors a reasonable time prior to the sale of ABS interests in the issuing
entity and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency
(if any) disclosure of:

67

See supra note 52.

81

•

Whether any retained vertical interest is retained as a single vertical

security or as separate proportional interests in each ABS interest;
•

Each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity underlying the single

vertical security at the closing of the securitization transaction and the percentage of each
class of ABS interests in the issuing entity that the sponsor would have been required to
retain if the sponsor held the eligible vertical interest as a separate proportional interest in
each class of ABS interest in the issuing entity;
•

The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all ABS

interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding
amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of
any single vertical security or separate proportional interests that would be (or was
retained) by the sponsor at closing, and the fair value (expressed as a percentage of the
fair value of all ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount
(or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued,
as applicable)) of the single vertical security or separate proportional interests required to
be retained by the sponsor in connection with the securitization transaction;
•

A description of the methodology used to calculate the fair value of all

classes of ABS interests; and
•

The key inputs and assumptions used in measuring the total fair value of

all classes of ABS interests (including the range of information considered in arriving at
such key inputs and assumptions and an indication of the weight ascribed thereto) and the
sponsor’s technique(s) to derive the key inputs.

82

Several commenters asserted that the final rule should not require sponsors to
measure and disclose the fair value of eligible vertical interests, so long as the underlying
ABS interests have either a principal or notional balance. The commenters stated that a 5
percent interest in the cash flow of each class would always be equivalent to 5 percent of
each class. In this regard, the commenters stated that requiring fair value measurement
and disclosures for the vertical option would be unnecessary for ensuring compliance
with the rule.
The agencies agree that calculation of fair value for eligible vertical interests is
unnecessary. The agencies note that only those sponsors that rely exclusively on an
eligible vertical interest to meet their risk retention requirements would not have to
calculate the fair value of the ABS interests and make the related disclosures. A sponsor
that wishes to receive credit for any residual interest that meets the requirements of an
eligible horizontal residual interest (other than any portion of the residual retained as part
of an eligible vertical interest) would be required to calculate the fair value of the ABS
interests and make the related disclosures.
c. Restriction on Projected Cash Flows to Eligible Horizontal Residual Interest
The reproposal would have placed limits on projected payments to holders of the
eligible horizontal residual interest. Specifically, the reproposal included a restriction on
projected cash flows to be paid to the eligible horizontal residual interest that would have
limited how quickly the sponsor would have been able to recover the fair value amount of
the eligible horizontal residual interest in the form of cash payments from the
securitization (or, if an eligible horizontal cash reserve account were established, released
to the sponsor or other holder of such account). The sponsor would have been prohibited

83

from structuring a deal where it was projected to receive such amounts at a faster rate
than the rate at which principal was projected to be paid to investors on all ABS interests
in the securitization. The restriction was designed with an intention of enabling sponsors
to satisfy their risk retention requirements with the retention of an eligible horizontal
residual interest in a variety of ABS structures, including those structures that do not
distinguish between principal and interest payments and between principal losses and
other losses. The restriction was discussed in detail in the reproposal. 68
The agencies invited comment in the reproposal on whether an alternative
provision should be adopted relating to the amount of principal payments that could be
received by the eligible horizontal residual interest. Under this alternative, on any
payment date, in accordance with the transaction’s governing documents, the cumulative
amount paid to an eligible horizontal residual interest would not be permitted to exceed a
proportionate share of the cumulative amount paid to all holders of ABS interests in the
transaction. The proportionate share would equal the percentage, as measured on the date
of issuance, of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the transaction that is
represented by the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest. 69
The agencies received a significant number of comments regarding the proposed
cash flow restrictions as well as the alternative approach on which they invited comment.
Several commenters requested that the proposed cash flow restriction to the eligible
horizontal residual interest and related certification be eliminated, either entirely or for

68

Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57938.

69

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57941.

84

specific asset classes, while one commenter proposed that the restriction be eliminated at
sunset.
Several commenters suggested that the proposed restriction on cash flow
distributions would be incompatible with a variety of securitization structures, such as
those organized to have increasing overcollateralization over time, large amounts of
excess spread at closing, or bullet maturities. Commenters stated that the reproposal’s
failure to distinguish between payments of interest and principal on the eligible horizontal
residual interest would be particularly problematic for many transactions. Such structures
highlighted by commenters included CMBS, where monthly cash flow comes
predominantly from interest payments for much of the life of the securitization, with the
result that these existing structures would not meet the test and would not have an
economically attractive eligible horizontal residual interest (or B-piece) if they did meet
the test. Several commenters also stated that the proposed cash flow restriction would be
problematic for CLOs and other structures that use principal proceeds to reinvest in
additional assets, but continue to pay interest, for significant reinvestment periods. One
such commenter suggested that the final rule should specify that the use of proceeds to
acquire new assets and reinvest does not constitute a payment with respect to the eligible
horizontal residual interest.
Commenters raised a number of specific concerns regarding the calculations and
projections that would be required by the proposed cash flow restriction. One commenter
stated that the calculations that sponsors would be required to compare in order to
determine whether restrictions are required would be too different to make effective
comparison possible. Several commenters asserted that the calculations, disclosures, and

85

certifications required by the proposed cash flow restriction were incompatible with
revolving structures, since the asset pools of revolving structures change over time and
the time at which the amortization period will commence is not always known at the
closing date. These commenters suggested an alternative certification and calculation
method for revolving structures. Another commenter suggested that when the ABS
interest is a variable funding note that may have periodic increases and decreases in
principal amount, the date of any increase or decrease should be treated as a new issue
date for purposes of calculating the proposed cash flow restriction.
A few commenters asserted that the proposed cash flow restriction would
significantly change the nature of the residual structure, since, for many structures, it
would eliminate or severely restrict the payment of interest or yield to holders of the
eligible horizontal residual interest. One commenter stated that if the holder of an
eligible horizontal residual interest is not able to receive a return commensurate with the
risk of the interest, the fair value of the interest will decrease, requiring that it represent a
significantly greater portion of the capital structure of the securitization in order to reach
5 percent of the fair value of all ABS interests issued. Another commenter asserted that
the proposed cash flow restriction would discourage sponsors from structuring offerings
of ABS interests with excess spread exceeding 5 percent of the fair value of the
transaction because the restriction would effectively prevent sponsors from reducing such
excess spread to 5 percent during the life of the transaction.
The certifications and disclosures to investors that would have been required by
the proposed cash flow restriction were also a focus of concern for commenters. Several
commenters expressed concern about potential liability that could result from the

86

proposed requirement that sponsors certify to investors that they had performed the
required calculations and to certify their expectations regarding the cash flow to the
eligible horizontal residual interest as compared to more senior ABS interests.
Commenters stated that sponsors could be subject to liability, if their projections and
assumptions differed from actual results. One commenter specifically contended that the
difficulty in accurately modeling prepayment risks heightens the risk of liability. Two
commenters suggested that a safe harbor should be granted to protect sponsors from such
liability risk. One such commenter requested limiting the safe harbor to sponsors who
utilize reasonable methodologies in making the required calculations. A different
commenter suggested that, rather than requiring the sponsor to make the certifications to
investors, the sponsor should only have to maintain a record of the closing date
calculations, including the methodology and material assumptions underlying them, and
make those records available to the Commission and banking agencies upon request for
five years. One commenter suggested that the proposed certification to investors should
be replaced with a requirement that the sponsor disclose to investors, in the offering
documents, that it has performed and met the cash flow restriction test.
The agencies also received comments regarding the proposed requirement that
sponsors would have to disclose their past performance in respect to the cash flow
calculations. One commenter raised concern that requiring such disclosures could create
potential liability issues concerning false disclosures. Two commenters suggested a
modification to the proposed requirement such that the sponsor would have to disclose
the number of payment dates on which the actual payments made to the sponsor under
the eligible horizontal residual interest exceeded the amounts projected to be paid to the

87

sponsor on such payment dates. These commenters asserted that the focus of this
disclosure should be on the cumulative amount of payments made to the holder of the
eligible horizontal residual interests, rather than the cash flow projected to be paid to the
sponsor on the payment dates.
Several commenters offered qualified support for the alternative proposal on
which the agencies invited comment. Such support was largely based on the fact that the
alternative proposal would have required the comparison of all forms of payment to both
the eligible horizontal residual interest and the investor interests, while the proposed cash
flow restriction would have required the comparison of all forms of payment to the
eligible horizontal residual interest and only principal payments to the investor interests.
Two commenters asserted that, without a detailed proposal, it is difficult to determine
what type of cash flow comparisons the agencies intended to cover with the alternative
proposal and that they would not support any proposal that does not allow for market
rates of return to be paid to the eligible horizontal residual interest. One commenter
would support the alternative proposal if it were modified to clarify that a residual
interest, in order to be considered an eligible horizontal residual interest, be limited in the
amount of principal repayments it may receive, such that the cumulative amount of
payments applied to reduce its principal or notional balance as of any payment date is
proportionate to (or less than) the cumulative amount of payments applied to reduce the
principal or notional balance of all ABS interests in the transaction as of such payment
date. One commenter requested a modified version of the alternative proposal that the
commenter said would be more appropriate for CMBS transactions. The commenter
asserted that, since CMBS bonds associated with the horizontal risk retention interest are

88

sold at a discount, the alternative proposal should allow the percentage of cash flow paid
to the horizontal risk retention holder to be based on the face value, rather than the fair
value, of their purchased interest.
Commenters also offered various alternative proposals to the proposed cash flow
restriction. One commenter requested that a sponsor be considered to have met its risk
retention obligation if it satisfies one of the following tests on the closing date based on
projections or assumptions of timely payment: (1) the projected fair value of the amount
retained as of each payment date will not be less than the required 5 percent; (2) the level
of overcollateralization calculated based on the amortizing balance of the ABS interests
as of each payment date, is not projected to decline below 5 percent over the life of the
transaction; or (3) the projected principal payments to be paid to the eligible horizontal
residual interest, as of each payment date, will not exceed its pro rata share of all
payments made to ABS interest holders on such payment date. One commenter
suggested that the test should be limited to a projection that the retained risk will be equal
to at least 5 percent of the sum of the projected aggregate fair value of all ABS interests
in the issuing entity, other than the eligible horizontal residual interest, and the projected
fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest.
After careful consideration of the comments, the agencies agree that the
restrictions on projected cash flow to the eligible horizontal residual interest included in
the proposed rule would not operate without significant risk of unintended consequences.
Furthermore, the agencies have not identified a cash flow restriction mechanism that
would function effectively across asset classes without having an unduly restrictive
impact on particular asset classes. While the agencies could consider different tests for

89

different classes, the agencies believe that would lead to a more complicated rule that
could be difficult to administer and that would likely engender more opportunity to
undermine the impact of the final rule on the alignment of interests between the sponsor
and investors. Additionally, the agencies believe that alternatives suggested by
commenters that proposed to restrict cash flows based on a comparison of projections of
the face value of securitized assets and the face value of outstanding ABS interests
(which do not capture expected credit losses, among other things) and alternatives that
focused only on repayment of principal either would be easily evaded or would not
effectively further the statutory goals and directive of section 15G of the Exchange Act to
limit credit risk and promote sound underwriting. Accordingly, the agencies are not
including in the final rule the proposed cash flow restriction, the alternative described in
the reproposal, or the alternatives suggested by commenters.
The agencies are concerned that risk retention may become less meaningful when
a sponsor quickly recovers the value of risk retention through distributions. However, the
agencies note that the final rule requires disclosure regarding the material terms of the
risk retention interest, and the timing of cash flows and determination of fair value, which
is designed to facilitate investor determination of whether the risk retention interest to be
held by the sponsor remains meaningful over time. In addition, while the rule requires
that the sponsor measure an eligible horizontal residual interest only as of the closing of a
transaction (and, under certain circumstances, if additional ABS interests are issued
thereafter), the rule also restricts the ability of a sponsor to transfer or hedge any interest
in the credit risk of the securitized assets it is required to retain until the expiration of
specified periods. Therefore, the rule is designed so that the sponsor remains exposed to

90

the credit risk of securitized assets, up to the amount required to be retained. If the
agencies observe that either the assumptions and methodologies used to calculate the fair
value of horizontal risk retention or the structuring of securitization transactions –
including structuring of payments to the residual interest – tends to undermine the ability
of the risk retention to align the interests of sponsor and investors, the agencies will
consider whether modifications to the rule should be made to address these issues.
2. Master Trusts: Revolving Pool Securitizations.
a. Overview of the Reproposal and Public Comments
Many securitization sponsors face a mismatch between the maturities of the assets
they seek to securitize and the maturities of bonds sought by investors in the market. In
order to obtain best execution for a securitization of those assets – or in other cases, in
order to obtain any investor interest in the market of any kind – the sponsor must use a
structure that transforms the available cash flow from the assets into debt with a maturity
and repayment type (amortizing or bullet) sought by investors. Furthermore, if the
sponsor’s business generates an ongoing stream of assets to be securitized under these
circumstances, especially (but not always) if the assets are receivables generated from
revolving credit lines, the sponsor faces unique challenges in structuring its
securitization.
One solution to these issues, which has evolved over the last 25 years, is a type of
revolving pool securitization commonly known as a “master trust” securitization. Master
trusts generally issue multiple series of asset-backed securities over time, collateralized
by a common pool of securitized assets. The transaction documentation requires the
sponsor to maintain the collateral balance at an amount that is at all times sufficient to

91

back the aggregate amount of outstanding investor ABS interests with a specified amount
of collateral above that amount. The amount of outstanding investor ABS interests
changes over time as new series are issued or existing series are paid down. Moreover, as
each series is issued, it begins with a revolving period (typically for some number of
years), during which the holders of investor ABS interests receive only interest, and cash
from borrower principal repayments on the securitized assets are used to buy additional
assets for the pool from the sponsor. This provides the sponsor with ongoing funding for
its operations, and maintains the level of securitized assets over time. Then, at a date
specified under the terms of the series, the revolving phase for the series comes to an end,
and cash from borrower principal repayments on securitized assets is used to repay
investors and retire that series of investor ABS interests.
Separately from the issue of credit enhancement for the investor ABS interests,
which is discussed below, investors are concerned that the total amount and quality of
securitized assets does not decline unacceptably during the revolving period of the series.
If that were to happen, the master trust could face difficulties repaying investors months
or years later when the series matures. To protect against this, the sponsor is typically
required, at various intervals, to measure the amount by which the aggregate principal
balance of the securitized assets exceeds the aggregate principal balance of the
outstanding investor ABS interests. If this “cushion” of securitized assets falls below a
target level, the sponsor has a specified cure period in which it may add more assets to

92

restore the pool to its required target size. 70 Credit quality problems with the securitized
assets would lead to elevated charge-offs of securitized assets, which in turn could cause
the pool to fall below the target level. 71
If the sponsor cannot restore the pool balance to its required target level within the
cure period, the master trust commences an “early amortization mode.” Once that occurs,
the sponsor may no longer use borrower payments on the securitized assets to purchase
additional loans to transfer to the securitization, and interest and principal payments on
the securitized assets are used to begin paying down outstanding investor ABS interests
as rapidly as practicable. The consequences to the sponsor are significant, since early
amortization of the master trust means the sponsor will no longer have access to
securitized funding through the master trust for future securitized assets generated in
connection with the sponsor’s operations.
The agencies’ reproposal would have recognized the “seller’s interest” retained by
a master trust sponsor as an acceptable form of risk retention to meet the sponsor’s
obligations under the rule. In many master trusts, the “seller’s interest” is the amount by
which the outstanding principal balance (or equivalent measurement) of the assets held
by the master trust exceeds the outstanding principal balance of the outstanding ABS
interests and is required by the series transaction documents to be maintained at or above
a specified percentage of the aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests, measured

70

Instead of adding assets, the sponsor might also avail itself of options described in the
transaction documents to reduce or repay outstanding investor ABS interests.

71

The level of securitized assets in the pool might also fall if securitized assets are repaid
according to their terms and the master trust does not use the repaid principal to acquire
replacement securitized assets from the sponsor.

93

monthly (e.g., the seller’s interest in the principal balance of pool collateral is required to
equal at least 5 percent of the principal balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests).
The seller’s interest is not attached to specific pool collateral; it is an undivided interest in
the entire pool akin to a participation interest, representing the sponsor’s entitlement to a
percentage of the total principal and interest or finance charge payments received on the
pooled securitized assets for every payment period (typically monthly). Investors in the
various series of ABS interests issued by the master trust have claims on the remaining
principal and interest or finance charge payments, as the source of repayment for the
ABS interests they purchased from the master trust. The seller’s interest in these
structures is generally pari passu with the investor ABS interests, resulting in the sponsor
incurring a pro rata share of credit losses on securitized assets, in a percentage amount
equal to the percentage amount of the seller’s interest as calculated under the terms of the
transaction documents. 72
The agencies’ reproposal would have treated a pari passu seller’s interest as a
separate form of risk retention. The reproposal would have allowed this option to be used
only by issuing entities organized as master trusts, established to issue on multiple
issuance dates one or more series of ABS interests, all of which are collateralized by a
common pool of assets that will change in composition over time. The reproposal would
have required distributions to the sponsor on the seller’s interest to be pari passu with
each series of investor ABS interests, prior to an early amortization event as defined in
the transaction documents. The sponsor would have been required to meet the 5 percent

72

A 5 percent pari passu seller’s interest is commonly required in credit card master
trusts.

94

threshold for its seller’s interest at the closing of each issuance of ABS interests by the
master trust, and at each seller’s interest measurement date specified in the transaction
documents, but no less often than monthly. The reproposal would have required the
seller’s interest to be retained by the sponsor or by a wholly-owned affiliate of the
sponsor.
For so-called “legacy master trusts” – which hold revolving pools of collateral
and issue a certificate that entitles the holder to distributions on that collateral to another
one of the sponsor’s master trusts, which in turn securitizes those distributions into
investor ABS interests – the reproposal would have allowed the seller’s interest with
respect to the legacy trust assets to be held by the sponsor at the level of either trust, in
proportion to their differing asset pools. The agencies also proposed to allow an offset
against the required seller’s interest, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, for so-called “excess
funding accounts.” These accounts receive distributions that would otherwise be paid to
the holder of the seller’s interest if the sponsor fails to meet the minimum seller’s interest
requirement. In the event of an early amortization of the master trust, funds from the
excess funding account would be used to make distributions to outstanding investor ABS
interests, in the same manner as distributions on pool collateral during early amortization.
In the reproposal, the agencies also observed that some of the master trusts in the
market are not structured to include a pari passu seller’s interest of a sufficient size to
meet the proposed rule’s 5 percent trust-wide requirement. In an effort to accommodate
sponsors of these trusts, the reproposal would have allowed the sponsor to reduce its 5
percent pari passu seller’s interest requirement by whatever corresponding percentage of
horizontal ABS interest the sponsor held in the structure. The reproposal would have

95

given the sponsor credit for an eligible horizontal residual interest under section 4 for
these purposes, as well as an alternative form of horizontal risk retention based on excess
spread (described below). The sponsor would have been required to determine the
percentages of horizontal retention on a fair value basis, consistent with the reproposal’s
treatment of other subordinated forms of risk retention. Furthermore, any gap between
the amount of trust-wide pari passu seller’s interest held by the sponsor and the 5 percent
minimum requirement would have been required to be offset with an equivalent fair
value percentage of the permitted horizontal interests for every outstanding series issued
by the master trust.
Another alternative form of horizontal risk retention that would have been
recognized by the reproposal was designed to allow sponsors to receive risk retention
credit for excess spread, which constitutes a significant portion of the credit enhancement
in master trusts collateralized by credit card receivables. These master trusts are
structured with two separate cash waterfalls, one for principal repayments collected from
borrowers and one for interest and fees (finance charges) collected from borrowers.
Interest and fees collected from borrowers each payment period are used to cover the
master trust’s expenses and to pay interest due on outstanding investor ABS interests for
the period, and the remaining interest and fee collections are then made available to cover
principal charge-offs on securitized assets. The sponsor is then entitled to collect
whatever interest and fee collections remain. Absent application of the excess interest
and fee collections to cover principal charge-offs, the principal charge-offs would result
in the balance of outstanding investor ABS interests being reduced. Accordingly, the
reproposal would have recognized the sponsor’s interest in the residual interest and fees

96

(excess spread) as a subordinated form of horizontal risk retention, if it was structured in
the manner described in this paragraph, so long as the master trust continued to revolve,
and the sponsor determined and disclosed the fair value of the residual interest and fees
on the same monthly basis as its pari passu seller’s interest.
The reproposal also included provisions clarifying that a master trust entering
early amortization and winding down would not, as a result, violate the rule’s
requirement that the seller’s interest be pari passu. During early amortization,
distributions on this form of seller’s interest typically become subordinated to investor
interests, to allow for the repayment of the outstanding investor ABS interests more
rapidly.
The agencies received extensive comments on the overall design and the details of
the reproposal’s option for master trusts. Commenters stated that the agencies needed to
make numerous revisions to the mechanics of the reproposal for master trusts or the
seller’s interest option would not be useable by most revolving pool securitization
structures in the market. Moreover, commenters stated that most revolving pool
securitizations in the market would be left with no mechanism for horizontal risk
retention under the rule whatsoever, because the requirements in section 4 of the
reproposed rule for an eligible horizontal residual interest conflicted with key provisions
of those revolving pool securitizations. Commenters pointed out that revolving pool
securitization structures have evolved beyond credit cards and automobile dealer
floorplan financing, to encompass numerous specialized asset classes important to the
U.S. economy. Examples they cited included a wide variety of floorplan and trade
receivable financing for commercial manufacturing firms, other non-revolving short-term

97

assets such as insurance premium loans and servicer advance receivables, a broad variety
of equipment leasing programs, and home equity line receivables. Commenters
identified two overarching concerns with the reproposal, and also made numerous, more
detailed recommendations for revisions to the mechanics of the rule.
The first area of overarching concern for commenters centered on the agencies’
proposed treatment of subordinated forms of risk retention in the master trust context. In
the reproposal, the agencies noted the existence of subordinated forms of seller’s interests
in the market. The agencies invited comment on whether subordinated seller’s interests
should be given risk retention credit under the rule, but also pointed out that the agencies
were inclined to require it to be measured on a fair value basis, consistent with the
treatment of other forms of subordinated risk retention under the reproposal.
Commenters said many revolving pool securitizations in the market relied on
subordinated seller’s interests as the principal source of credit enhancement and,
therefore, it was critical for the agencies to include it in the rule. 73 Commenters also said
that monthly calculations of fair value, as suggested by the agencies in the reproposal,
would be immensely burdensome. Commenters said this burden was especially

73

One group of commenters said the typical pari passu seller’s interest in a floorplan
securitization was zero percent, and they were aware of no floorplan securitization with
one higher than 2 percent. These commenters said that a subordinated seller’s interest
was, like a pari passu seller’s interest, typically calculated as a set percentage of
additional assets required to be held in the collateral pool, over and above an amount
equal to the total amount of outstanding investor ABS interests (though this percentage is
often determined on a series-by-series basis rather than a trust-wide basis). Principal and
interest payments made with respect to this subordinated seller’s interest are distributed
to the sponsor, after they are first applied to cover any charge-offs of securitized assets
that would otherwise reduce the principal amount of outstanding investor ABS interests.
The sponsor’s share of principal and interest distributions is also available to cover
shortfalls in payments of principal and interest due to investors.

98

unwarranted in the case of revolving pool securitizations, which do not monetize excess
spread and, therefore, do not present the risks of evasion through deal structures that
motivated the agencies’ restrictions on other forms of horizontal risk retention.
Commenters also said that the agencies’ concerns about sponsor manipulation and
evasion were misplaced, because revolving pool securitization sponsors rely on the
funding they thereby obtain as a principal source of ongoing funding for their business
operations. Commenters said this creates an alignment of interests between sponsors and
investors that is the opposite of the originate-to-distribute model. 74
The other areas of concern for commenters were differences between the
reproposal’s requirements for the eligible horizontal residual interest and the terms of
existing revolving pool securitizations in the market. First, commenters said the cash
flow recovery percentage calculations were structurally incompatible with revolving pool
securitizations. 75 Second, commenters expressed heightened concerns about their
potential liability for disclosing predictions and assumptions about the future
performance of a revolving pool securitization, in connection with making the fair value

74

Commenters representing automobile, equipment, and dealer floorplan manufacturers
were among those advocating for a simplified risk retention alternative, without fair value
requirements and cash flow restrictions, for “simple” securitization structures that issue
only “traditional” interest bearing asset-backed securities with 5 to 10 percent
overcollateralization on a face value basis and weighted average interest rates on the
issued asset-backed securities in line with that of the securitized assets. The agencies
note that the elimination of the cash flow restrictions from section 4 of the rule,
accompanied by the treatment of subordinated seller’s interests adopted in the final rule,
should significantly address the source of commenters’ concerns in this regard.
75

The agencies note that the elimination of the cash flow restrictions from section 4 of
the rule addresses commenters’ concerns in this regard.

99

determination required by the rule. Third, commenters asserted that the requirement for
the eligible horizontal residual interest to be the most subordinated claim to payments of
both principal and interest could not be achieved when the sponsor is also entitled to
collect residual interest and fees, because there are separate interest and principal
waterfalls and the subordinated junior bond in the series held by the sponsor (whether or
not it is certificated or rated) is usually structured to be paid interest before the allocation
of interest and fee collections to cover charge-offs otherwise allocable to senior bonds
(and in some cases, charge-offs allocable to the junior interests held by the sponsor as
well).
Commenters said that sponsors sought the ability to continue incorporating
subordinated seller’s interest or residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees into their
deal structures and simultaneously retain a junior bond, while still having the flexibility
to choose which combination of those interests the sponsor would use to comply with the
risk retention requirements. Commenters placed particular importance on retaining the
flexibility to do this without being required to engage in fair value determinations for the
interests the sponsor does not count for purposes of regulatory compliance.
In addition, commenters expressed concerns about paragraphs (2) and (3) of the
eligible horizontal residual interest definition in connection with the series-level
allocations and delinked structures used in revolving pool securitizations.
Commenters also asked the agencies to modify the rule’s subordination
requirements to allow a subordinated tranche held as an eligible horizontal residual
interest to be repaid prior to later-maturing senior tranches, noting that, in delinked
structures, a subordinated tranche which enhances one or more senior tranches may

100

mature before the senior tranche. In these circumstances, commenters said the
securitization transaction documents contain terms requiring the subordinated tranche to
be replaced to the extent the remaining senior tranches still require credit enhancement
under the terms of the transaction documents.
In addition to these concerns, commenters requested numerous changes they said
were necessary to recognize the risk retention existing in revolving pool securitizations in
the current market.
Commenters said many revolving securitization structures that are commonly
referred to as “master trusts” do not, in fact, use issuing entities organized in the form of
a trust, and their organizational documents do not necessarily state that they are
established to issue multiple series. Commenters also expressed concern about whether
sponsors universally hold their seller’s interests in the form of an “ABS interest” as
defined in the reproposed rule.
Commenters requested clarification as to whether the requirement that the master
trust be collateralized by a common pool of securitized assets means that every series
must be secured by every asset held by the issuing entity. Commenters explained that
some revolving pool securitizations may use collateral groupings, and further that
principal accumulation and interest reserve accounts may be held only for the benefit of
an identified series. Commenters also requested clarification as to whether the common
pool requirement prevents the issuing entity from holding assets that are not eligible to
support issuance of additional ABS interests to investors (such as excess concentration
receivables), but are nonetheless pledged as collateral to the structure, with proceeds from

101

these ineligible assets being allocated to the sponsor, sometimes with varying extents of
subordination to one or more series of outstanding investor ABS interests.
In the reproposal, the agencies invited comment on whether, if a sponsor is
relying on the seller’s interest as its required credit risk retention under the rule, the final
rule should preclude the master trust from monetizing excess spread, in exchange for
allowing the seller’s interest to be calculated on the basis of the principal balance of
outstanding investor ABS interests instead of the fair value of outstanding investor ABS
interests. Commenters questioned the agencies’ rationale for this restriction, asserting
that revolving pool securitizations that generate excess spread do not monetize it through
the issuance of interest-only securities or premium bonds. Commenters said revolving
pool securitizations do exactly the opposite, making excess spread available to cover
losses that would otherwise reduce the principal repayments to outstanding investor ABS
interests. 76
Commenters questioned why the reproposal would, as a general rule, permit a
majority-owned affiliate of a securitizer to hold the securitizer’s risk retention interest
required by the rule, but in the case of revolving pool securitizations would only permit
the seller’s interest or special horizontal interest to be held by the securitizer or a whollyowned affiliate of the securitizer.
Commenters also requested that the agencies revise the rule to permit risk
retention in legacy master trusts to be held at the legacy master trust level, not only for

76

Commenters also expressed concern as to how the agencies could define the difference
between premium bonds and bonds that price above par due to investor enthusiasm for a
particular bond.

102

seller’s interests, as the agencies proposed, but also for horizontal forms of risk retention
permitted under the rule.
Commenters requested that the agencies make changes to the details of the
definition of seller’s interest concerning the requirement that the sponsor’s distributions
on the seller’s interest be pari passu prior to an early amortization event. Commenters
pointed out that principal distributions on the seller’s interest are subordinated to a series
of outstanding investor ABS interests in a controlled accumulation phase or amortization,
because the transaction documents typically fix the proportions for allocation of principal
distributions to the series at the start of the accumulation phase or amortization period. 77
With respect to the reproposal’s requirement for master trusts to measure the
seller’s interest on the measurement date specified in the transaction documents, no less
than monthly, commenters requested two changes. First, commenters stated that some
revolving pool securitizations require measurements of the seller’s interest on a more
frequent basis, and that they should not be required to measure the seller’s interest for
regulatory compliance purposes more often than monthly (and at the closing of each
issuance of ABS interests). 78 Second, commenters requested the agencies to recognize
the cure period afforded them under their transaction documents. Commenters also

77

Moreover, some revolving pool securitizations allocate principal during an
accumulation phase pursuant to a formula that captures all available principal collections
from the assets that are not otherwise needed for other principal accumulation accounts
and acquisition of new pool collateral.
78

Commenters said that the measurement referred to by the agencies in the reproposal,
for purposes of determining whether the sponsor must add more assets to the collateral
pool, generally takes place monthly. However, the seller’s interest is measured more
frequently (as often as daily) for other purposes, such as verifying whether cash may be
released to the sponsor.

103

requested changes to the specifics of the disclosure requirements with respect to the cutoff dates for disclosing the amount of seller’s interest retained by the sponsor.
Commenters also requested changes to the details of the reproposed rule’s
treatment of excess funding accounts and the provisions on early amortization, to better
reflect the way early amortization triggers are currently structured.
Commenters supported the reproposal’s inclusion of residual interest and fees as a
recognized form of risk retention for revolving pool securitizations. They recognized the
rationale for requiring sponsors using the option to measure it on a fair value basis, but
expressed concern that the burdens of performing the valuation monthly would be so
substantial as to dissuade all but a few revolving pool securitizations from using the
option. Commenters also requested some changes and clarifications to the mechanics of
the rule language in the reproposal, to accommodate established structures being used in
the market. They also requested that the agencies eliminate the requirement for separate
interest and principal waterfalls.
Commenters supported the reproposal’s inclusion of provisions allowing
revolving pool securitizations to offset and reduce their 5 percent seller’s interest with
corresponding amounts of horizontal interests. They objected to the agencies’
requirement that the offsetting amount be held with respect to every series in the trust,
and requested that the agencies permit the offset to be determined on a weighted average
basis across all series of outstanding investor ABS interests. Commenters also requested
that, if a sponsor held the horizontal interest jointly with an investor, the sponsor be
allowed to take credit for its proportional holding in that horizontal interest.

104

Commenters agreed with the agencies that it is not practicable to create a
grandfathered status for seller’s interest, since it represents the sponsor’s undivided
interest in, and exposure to, the common pool of securitized assets in the trust, on a trustwide basis. Commenters suggested that a revolving pool securitization relying on
horizontal interests to offset any portion of the seller’s interest should be allowed to do so
on a grandfathered basis, whereby the sponsor would only be required to hold that
horizontal element with respect to series issued after the applicable effective date of the
rule.
Commenters also described a type of revolving pool securitization that securitizes
mortgage servicer advance receivables, in which the seller’s interest is fully subordinated
to all expenses and investor obligations. These commenters requested inclusion of these
subordinated interests as part of the master trust option, and inclusion of certain seriesspecific interest reserve accounts as an offset to the minimum seller’s interest.
b. Description of the Final Rule
The agencies are revising the master trust option in the final rule in order to make
the option available to more commercial firms that currently rely on revolving pool
securitizations as an important component of their funding base. These revisions
recognize and accommodate the meaningful exposure to credit risk currently held by
sponsors of these vehicles, in light of the heightened alignment of incentives between
sponsors and investors that attaches to their revolving nature. The agencies are also
making a number of other refinements in the final rule in order to align it more closely
with the mechanics of revolving pool securitizations as they are structured in the market
today.

105

The pari passu seller’s interest option proposed by the agencies represents a
special form of over-collateralization for the ABS interests issued by a revolving pool
securitization. Under the final rule, sponsors must maintain the size of the seller’s
interest position, which they most commonly do through the ongoing addition of assets to
the pool or repayment of investor ABS interests, if the existing pool is diminished by
charge-offs exceeding expected loss rates.
The agencies are also adopting an additional change requested by commenters to
accommodate other revolving pool securitizations that are common in the market and rely
on over-collateralization in a different manner, which varies between asset classes.
Commenters described two different structures, one of which the agencies are persuaded
should be recognized as an eligible form of risk retention under the final rule. This form
was described by commenters as a common feature of some asset classes, such as
equipment leasing and floorplan financing. In these revolving pool securitizations, the
sponsor is obligated, as is the case in the pari passu seller’s interest structure, to maintain
an undivided interest in the securitized assets in the collateral pool, in an amount equal to
a specified percentage of the trust’s outstanding investor ABS interests. Whereas the pari
passu seller’s interest is a trust-level interest equal to a minimum percentage of the
revolving pool securitization’s combined outstanding investor ABS interests, the
minimum percentage in these structures may be tied to the outstanding investor ABS
interests in each separate series. While the sponsor’s right to receive distributions on the
seller’s interest included in the reproposal was required to be pari passu, the sponsor’s
right to receive its share of distributions on its subordinated seller’s interest may be
subordinated to varying extents to the series’ share of credit losses.

106

Importantly, notwithstanding these differences with the pari passu seller’s
interest, the sponsor of this form of revolving pool securitization is still required under
the transaction documents to maintain the specified minimum percentage amount of
securitized assets in the pool if the securitization is to continue revolving, through the
ongoing addition of extra securitized assets to the pool if necessary. The agencies believe
this requirement to maintain the specified minimum percentage amount creates incentives
for the sponsor to monitor the quality of the securitized assets added to the pool in both
structures. If the sponsor replaces depleted pool collateral with poorly underwritten
assets, those assets will, in turn, underperform, and the sponsor will be obligated to add
even more assets. If this cycle is perpetuated and the specified minimum percentage
amount is breached, the deal will enter early amortization, and the sponsor’s access to
future funding from the structure will be terminated. In consideration of this, the
agencies have made modifications so that the final rule recognizes this subordinated form
of seller’s interest as an eligible form of risk retention for revolving pool securitizations,
because the agencies believe this form aligns the interests of sponsors and investors in a
manner similar to other forms of risk retention recognized pursuant to the final rule.
The second form of revolving pool securitization described by commenters as
used in some asset classes, such as equipment leasing and floorplan financing, represents
various types of excess securitized assets. The transaction documents for revolving pool
securitizations typically impose eligibility requirements on the securitized assets that are
allowed to be included as collateral for purposes of calculating the total amount of
outstanding investor ABS interests that may be issued by the revolving trust. According
to commenters, these eligibility requirements include concentration limits on securitized

107

assets with common characteristics, such as those originating from a particular
manufacturer or dealer or a particular geographic area. The sponsor places assets in the
revolving pool securitization that do not meet these requirements (excess concentration
receivables), but these ineligible assets are not included when calculating the total
amount of outstanding investor ABS interests the revolving pool securitization may issue.
Commenters asserted that these ineligible assets are often subject to the pledge of
collateral to the ABS investors, but distributions on these assets are typically allocated to
the sponsor. Depending on the terms of the securitization, the sponsor’s claim to the cash
flow from these excess assets may be partially or fully subordinated to investor interests,
and these subordination features may be at the trust level, at the series level, or some
combination of both.
The agencies are not persuaded that the sponsor’s interest in these receivables
should be included as eligible risk retention. By their terms, these are assets that are not
representative of the assets that stand as the principal repayment source for investor ABS
issued by the revolving pool securitization.
To accommodate revolving pool securitizations with subordinated seller’s
interest, the agencies have revised the distribution language in the definition of seller’s
interest to include seller’s interests that are pari passu with each series of investor ABS
interests, or partially or fully subordinated to one or more series in identical or varying
amounts with respect to the allocation of all distributions and losses on the securitized
assets. This language retains the vertical nature of the proposed seller’s interest, since the
sponsor must receive at least its pro rata share of losses on securitized assets through the
pari passu aspect of the distribution. The sponsor is also free to use its pari passu share of

108

distributions from securitized assets to provide loss protection to outstanding investor
ABS interests, thereby subordinating its interest. The final rule provides that these levels
of subordination may be varied, thereby affording the sponsor flexibility with regard to
the extent of this subordination. For example, the sponsor may provide varying levels of
subordination to different series, or provide different levels of subordination depending
on the occurrence of triggers specified in the transaction documents.
Commenters stated that structures with pari passu seller’s interest also often
include elements of conditional subordination that are included to accommodate investor
or rating agency concerns that vary from transaction to transaction. These are also
permitted pursuant to the final rule. The agencies believe this flexibility is necessary to
accommodate the kinds of variations in current market practice from deal to deal that
commenters described in their comment letters. Nevertheless, the flexibility afforded
under the rule does not permit the sponsor to participate in distributions to any extent
greater than pari passu. Therefore, the seller’s interest may not be senior to any series of
investor ABS interests with respect to allocation of distributions pursuant to the seller’s
interest.
Commenters asserted that revolving pool securitizations typically provide
different distribution regimes for seller’s interests if the securitization moves into early
amortization. The reproposed rule contained language reflecting this, relieving the
seller’s interest from the pari passu distribution requirement only after an “early
amortization event.” In response to these comments, the agencies have removed the
technical reference to a triggering event and substituted functional language describing a

109

revolving pool securitization in early amortization, as specified in the securitization
transaction documents. 79
In addition, the agencies have modified slightly the operational portion of the
final rule text allowing retention of a seller’s interest to satisfy a sponsor’s risk retention
obligation. Whereas the reproposal obligated the sponsor to “retain a seller’s interest of
not less than 5 percent,” the final rule requires the sponsor to “maintain a seller’s interest
of not less than 5 percent” (emphasis added). The agencies believe that the sponsor’s
obligation to replenish the seller’s interest underlies the alignment of interests unique to
the revolving pool securitization structure. Commenters indicated that there are some
forms of subordinated seller’s interest that the sponsor is not required to replenish. These
do not qualify for the seller’s interest option under the final rule.
The definition of seller’s interest in the final rule provides that ineligible assets –
specifically, assets which are not eligible under the terms of the securitization transaction
to be included when making periodic determinations whether the revolving pool
securitization holds aggregate securitized assets in the required specified proportions to
aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests issued by the revolving pool securitization
(e.g., excess concentration receivables) – are not to be considered a component of the
seller’s interest. 80 By the terms of the transaction documents, these are assets that are

79

As discussed above, the definition of seller’s interest has also been revised to allow,
prior to early amortization, subordinated distributions.
80

One group of commenters recommended that the agencies simply modify the seller’s
interest definition to exclude assets within the revolving pool securitization that secure
110

typically not representative of the assets that stand as the principal repayment source for
investor ABS interests issued by the revolving pool securitization, and the agencies are
declining to grant commenter’s request that they be recognized as a form of risk retention
comparable to the forms of seller’s interest recognized under the rule. The agencies have
also clarified the proposed exclusion from seller’s interest of assets that have been
allocated as collateral only for a specific series. As the agencies discussed in the
reproposal, this exclusion was designed to accommodate limited forms of exclusion in
connection with administering the trust, accumulating principal, and reserving interest. 81
To reflect this condition within the rule text itself, the agencies have revised the exclusion
so it applies only to servicing assets.
To address certain comments about the application of the definition of eligible
horizontal residual interest to revolving pool securitizations, the agencies have modified
paragraph (2) of the definition of eligible horizontal residual interest to refer to allocation
dates as well as payment dates. 82 The agencies also confirm that, in applying the eligible
horizontal residual interest definition to a revolving securitization with multiple series,
the requirements in paragraphs (2) and (3) specifying priority of payment with respect to
amounts due to other interest holders and requiring subordination are to be applied with
respect to the series supported by the particular eligible horizontal residual interest

less than all of the ABS interests. The agencies are implementing this approach in a more
targeted way by identifying the particular categories of assets to be excluded.
81

Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57943, n.52.

82

Commenters stated that the reproposal’s definition of eligible horizontal residual
interest refers to loss allocations occurring on ABS interest payment dates, whereas
revolving pool securitizations allocate losses periodically, in advance of ABS interest
payment dates.

111

(including, where applicable, certain delinked structures), and should only be construed
to refer to all outstanding investor ABS interests if the eligible horizontal residual interest
is, in fact, structured to function as an enhancement to all outstanding investor ABS
interests issued by that revolving pool securitization. To accommodate delinked
structures, commenters requested that the agencies allow replacement of a subordinate
tranche before maturity of the senior tranches it supports. The agencies are not adopting
this requested modification. The agencies note that, to serve as risk retention pursuant to
the rule, the sponsor must retain an eligible horizontal retention interest for the life of the
securitization it supports, and the agencies believe sponsors can readily structure their
retained residual interests to achieve this outcome. 83
The risk retention options described in section 5 of the final rule are available
only to a specific category of securitization vehicles, originally defined as “revolving
master trusts” but now defined as “revolving pool securitizations.” 84 The option is not
available to an issuing entity that issues series of ABS interests at different times
collateralized by segregated independent pools of securitized assets within the issuing

83

The agencies are also concerned that the approach suggested by commenters is
inconsistent with the rule’s approach to the timing of the fair value determination for
retained eligible horizontal residual interests under the standard risk retention option,
under which the fair value ratio of residual to ABS interests issued is measured at the
time of issuance. Although sponsors noted that the terms of a delinked revolving pool
securitization transaction include requirements for minimum levels of subordination to be
maintained in connection with the maturity and replacement of subordinated interests,
these measures do not necessarily ensure equivalent fair value for a replacement
subordination interest. Commenters did not suggest any alternatives to address this area
of concern.
84

The agencies made this change, and eliminated language in the definition requiring the
issuing entity to be a “master trust,” in response to comments indicating sponsors
sometimes organize the issuing entity as a different type of legal entity.

112

entity such as a series trust, or an issuing entity that issues shorter-term ABS interests
collateralized by a static pool of securitized assets, or an issuing entity with a
predetermined re-investment period that precedes an ultimate amortization period.
Commenters expressed concern that language in the revolving pool securitization
definition requiring the issuing entity to be “established to issue on multiple issuance
dates one or more series” would require them to re-constitute their issuing entities. The
agencies note that the rule does not require specific statements of intention to issue
multiple series in the issuing entity’s organizational documents. That being said, the
agencies believe that the ability to issue more than one series of ABS interests is one of
the defining characteristics of the structure. 85 In light of this, the agencies are replacing
the “one or more” language with rule text requiring the issuing entity to be established to
issue “more than one” series. While the rule requires no specialized documentation of
this intention to be made in connection with the issuing entity’s legal organization, the
sponsor must be able to establish that, under the constituent legal powers of the entity
pursuant to applicable law, the issuing entity has the authority to issue more than one
series. The agencies also recognize that a business organization might establish a

85

Although “series” could be considered a term of art in securitization, it is not a defined
term in the rule. The rule text in this regard refers to “more than one series, class,
subclass, or tranche.” Section 5(a) of the final rule. The agencies believe the text is
sufficiently flexible to accommodate, regardless of transaction labels used, the concept of
a discrete issuance of ABS interests of a certain maturity, albeit one with a renewable or
renegotiated maturity, as well as delinked structures. However, in the same vein, the
rule’s reference to a class, subclass, or tranche, which are terms commonly used to
describe subsets within a series, is not an invitation to sponsors to assert that subdivisions
of an issuance qualify as multiple issuances for these purposes.

113

revolving pool securitization vehicle and, after issuing one series, changes in
circumstances could prevent the sponsor from seeking to issue any additional series, with
the structure ceasing to revolve and amortizing out. The agencies typically would not
dispute this issuing entity’s eligibility under section 5 of the rule in hindsight, absent facts
and circumstances indicating the sponsor sought to use the structure to improperly avoid
the standard risk retention obligations of section 4 of the rule. A business organization
that did so more than once would face a heightened burden to establish that its reliance on
section 5 of the rule was not a violation of its obligations under the rule.
The final rule retains the reproposal’s requirement that the issuing entity’s ABS
interests are collateralized by a common pool of securitized assets that will change in
composition over time. This is another defining characteristic of a revolving pool
securitization eligible to use section 5 of the rule. Under these structures, principal
collections on the securitized assets (net of funds required to amortize the principal of
outstanding investor ABS interests or to accumulate such funds) are used to purchase
additional assets to collateralize existing and future investor ABS interests in the
securitization on a revolving basis, with no predetermined end date. 86 Revolving pool
securitizations allow sponsors to restructure the cash flows on the securitized assets not
only for credit enhancement, but for mismatches between the maturities of the securitized

86

The agencies also recognize that the extent to which the sponsoring organization
utilizes investor funding to fund the securitized assets may vary according to business
need, as well as the availability of alternate sources of funds at more favorable rates.

114

assets and the maturities of ABS interests that are sought by the market on attractive
terms. 87
Commenters requested further clarification about the common pool requirement.
One concern centered on the presence of ineligible assets, including so-called “excess
concentration” receivables. The agencies observe that, on the one hand, these ineligible
assets are part of the asset pool, and proceeds from them may even be used to cover
losses that would otherwise be allocated to investors. On the other hand, the bulk, or in
many cases all, of the proceeds from the ineligible assets are directed to the sponsor, and
the receivables are not eligible to be included when determining the revolving pool’s
limit on outstanding investor ABS interests. The agencies do not consider these
arrangements to violate the common pool requirement, though as noted above the final
rule does not permit these assets to be included when calculating the size of the seller’s
interest.
Notwithstanding the agencies’ willingness to accommodate these ineligible assets
that are allocated to the sponsor, if a revolving pool securitization designated a collateral
group as the securitized assets for a specific series, the arrangement would not meet the
common pool requirement. In this vein, commenters requested clarification as to whether
a revolving pool securitization with collateral groups meets the common pool

87

In referring to maturities in this aspect of the discussion, the agencies do not focus on
legal maturity, or to effective maturity or duration, as those terms are used in finance, but
to the actual lifespan of the assets and interests. For example, in many revolving pool
securitizations, such as credit card, automobile floor plan, construction loan, and trade
receivable deals, the maturity of the securitized assets is so short that the structure is used
to lengthen the maturity of the asset-backed securities to attract investors. In other
revolving pool securitizations, such as UK residential mortgage deals, the structure is
used to create shorter maturity bullet asset-backed securities to attract investors.

115

requirement. Commenters did not provide details about these grouping practices, and the
agencies believe the use of collateral groups may not satisfy the common pool
requirement. If the arrangement were analogous to a construct with multiple revolving
pool securitizations being operated out of a single issuing entity, and the sponsor could
demonstrate that each group would comply with the rule’s requirements on an
independent basis, the arrangement could meet the common pool standard. On the other
hand, if the arrangement is analogous to a revolving pool securitization in one group and
a series trust in another group, the arrangement would be extremely unlikely to satisfy the
common pool standard. If distributions and losses from any “group” are designated to a
single outstanding series, the arrangement would not meet the common pool standard. 88
To accommodate the possibility of a multiple group arrangement, the agencies have
modified the rule text of the common pool requirement slightly to eliminate the
requirement that the common pool collateralize “all” series issued by the revolving pool
securitization, as well as a similar requirement in the definition of seller’s interest.
Nevertheless, a sponsor that relies on section 5 of the rule for a multiple group

88

The use by a revolving pool securitization of excess cash flows resulting from
allocations of distributions to one series of ABS interests as credit enhancement to cover
shortfalls in periodic interest obligations, periodic losses, and similar exposures
experienced by other specified series of ABS interests (but not all other series of ABS
interests) does not violate the common pool requirement. The agencies do not believe
this sharing of allocations of distributions among “groups” of outstanding series raises the
same concerns as separate groups of collateral. Similarly, principal accumulation
formulas would not violate the common pool requirement. As discussed above, some
revolving pool securitizations allocate principal collections from pool assets during an
accumulation phase pursuant to a formula that captures all available principal collections
from pool assets that are not otherwise needed for other principal accumulation accounts
and acquisition of new pool collateral.

116

arrangement bears ultimate responsibility to demonstrate full compliance with the rule’s
common pool requirement.
As discussed above, the reproposal also noted that revolving pool securitizations
do not monetize excess spread, and the agencies invited comment as to whether the rule
should be modified to expressly prohibit structures that rely on the seller’s interest option
from issuing senior interest-only bonds or premium bonds. 89 In light of commenters’
concerns about the feasibility of incorporating this restriction into a regulatory
requirement and attendant grandfathering issues with respect to structures that have
classes of bonds previously issued with idiosyncratic interest rates, the agencies are
taking a different approach. The agencies have added to the definition of a revolving
pool securitization the requirement that the sponsor does not monetize excess spread from
its securitized assets. The ability of a sponsor to meet this standard with respect to its
outstanding investor ABS interests depends on the facts and circumstances of the
issuance, including whether the revolving pool securitization issues ABS interests that
price materially above par in light of all the features of the ABS interests and market
conditions, or the revolving pool securitization issues ABS interests that pay investors
interest on notional principal absent issuance of a corresponding issuance of principalonly bonds to support the revolving pool securitization.
Consistent with the reproposal, the final rule requires the seller’s interest to be not
less than 5 percent of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all outstanding investor
ABS interests in the issuing entity. The phrase “all outstanding investor ABS interests

89

Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57944.

117

issued” refers to ABS interests issued to persons other than the sponsor and whollyowned affiliates of the sponsor. Although the reproposal suggested that ABS interests
held by the sponsor would still be treated as outstanding investor ABS interests if those
asset-backed securities were “issued under a series,” the agencies are simplifying the
final rule to eliminate this distinction, which could raise associated interpretive issues as
to whether certain retained interests met that description. Accordingly, in determining
the 5 percent ratio, a sponsor is not required to include in the denominator the amount of
ABS interests that are held by the sponsor or its wholly-owned affiliates, but only if the
sponsor (or its wholly-owned affiliates) retains them for the life of the ABS interests.
This treatment applies for ABS interests held by the sponsor and its wholly-owned
affiliates for purposes of complying with the risk retention rule, or held for other
reasons. 90 In order to maintain consistency with a sponsor’s disclosures as to the manner
of its compliance with the seller’s interest requirement, which are communicated to
investors in connection with the issuance of a series of ABS interests, the sponsor must
make a threshold determination as to whether it intends to retain excluded ABS interests
for their life and disclose this election to investors. If a sponsor wishes to retain the

90

There are several circumstances in which a sponsor might retain additional ABS
interests. Investors may not be inclined to purchase investor ABS interests unless the
sponsor holds a greater interest in the securitization transaction. The sponsor’s cost of
funds to place a subordinated tranche of a series may be greater than the sponsor’s cost to
fund that tranche through other means, or the sponsor’s overall cost of funds may be
lower than the funding that can be obtained by issuance of a new series. If the ABS
interest is being retained by the sponsor as part of its required risk retention pursuant to
the rule, the interest is subject to hedging and transfer restrictions of section 12 of the
rule.

118

flexibility to transfer an ABS interest in the future, the sponsor must, from the time of the
issuance of the ABS interest onward, include such ABS interest in the denominator. 91
The agencies have also added language clarifying that, if the transaction
documents set minimum required seller’s interest as a proportion of the unpaid principal
balance of the outstanding investor ABS interests in one or more identified series, rather
than all outstanding investor ABS interests of the revolving pool securitization as a
whole, seller’s interest may be measured on that basis. However, the percentage of each
series’ specific seller’s interest must (when combined with the percentage of
securitization-wide seller’s interest, if any) equal at least 5 percent other than for any
series issued prior to the applicable effective date. For example, the final rule does not
permit a sponsor to include in the numerator of the seller’s interest ratio a reserve account
that only covers shortfalls of principal and interest payments to holders of a specific
series of investor ABS interests.
The final rule requires the 5 percent minimum seller’s interest test to be
determined and satisfied at the closing of each issuance of ABS interests to investors by
the issuing entity, and at least monthly. The agencies have made several adjustments to
the measurement details, in response to comments. Sponsors must measure the seller’s
interest at a seller’s interest measurement date specified in the transaction documents at
least monthly. If the seller’s interest does not meet the minimum percentage requirement

91

An ABS interest retained in this manner and that is not being used to satisfy the
minimum risk retention requirements under the rule, and that is excluded from the
denominator, is not subject to the restrictions of the final rule that apply to ABS interests
retained to meet the risk retention obligations under the final rule. For instance, the
sponsor would be permitted to hedge the risks related to holding such an interest.

119

on any measurement date and the transaction documents specify a cure period, the
minimum percentage requirement must be satisfied within the cure period, but no later
than one month after the original measurement date.
For purposes of determining the size of the seller’s interest at the closing of each
issuance of ABS interests to investors, the final rule permits the sponsor to use a specified
“as of” date or cut-off date for data in establishing the outstanding value of the revolving
pool securitization’s securitized assets and an “as-of” date or cut-off date for data in
establishing the value of the revolving pool securitization’s outstanding ABS interests.
The agencies expect that sponsors of revolving pool securitizations will, as a practical
matter, continue their past practice of using cut-off dates as the basis for disclosures
about the amount of securitized assets held by the issuing entity, and similarly using
investor reporting or distribution dates as the basis for disclosures about the amount of
outstanding investor ABS interests. The final rule accommodates this, both for disclosure
purposes and for determining compliance with the regulatory minimum seller’s interest
requirement. The sponsor is required to describe its use of specified dates for these
purposes in connection with the associated investor disclosures for the issuance of ABS
interests by the revolving pool securitization. In addition, in the interests of ensuring
sponsors use up-to-date information, the rule requires the specified dates to be no more
than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors. To accommodate revolving pool
securitizations that only make investor distributions quarterly (or less frequently), rather

120

than monthly, the final rule permits the specified dates to be up to 135 days prior to the
date of first use with investors. 92
In addition, the final rule’s disclosure requirements require the sponsor to provide
pre-sale descriptions of the percentage of seller’s interest the sponsor expects to retain at
closing. To accommodate this, the final rule permits sponsors to describe adjustments to
their specified-date data reflecting increases or decreases for additions or removals of
assets the sponsor expects to make before the closing date. 93 The sponsor, in describing
the amount of additional investor ABS interest that are expected to be added by the
securitization transaction, may also describe other adjustments to the issuing entity’s
outstanding investor ABS interest data resulting from expected increases and decreases of
those interests under the control of the sponsor, such as additional issuances, or scheduled
principal payments on outstanding investor ABS interests that the sponsor expects will be
made before the closing date. If the amount of seller’s interest the sponsor determines
that it retains at the closing of the securitization transaction is materially different from
the amount described in the pre-closing disclosures, the sponsor must disclose the amount
as of closing, within a reasonable time after the closing.
Consistent with the reproposal, the seller’s interest amount is the unpaid principal
balance of the seller’s interest in the common pool of receivables or loans. The minimum

92

See supra note 62.

93

In providing the sponsor this operational flexibility, the final rule does not allow the
sponsor to adjust the asset total for changes other than additions or removals of assets
made by the sponsor itself. Accordingly, the rule does not permit the sponsor to adjust
the asset total to take into account seasonal changes in borrowers’ revolving credit
drawdown rates, expected changes in borrower repayment rates, or other estimated
factors.

121

required seller’s interest cannot be less than 5 percent of the aggregate unpaid principal
balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests issued by the issuing entity. The
agencies have added language clarifying the measurement of this ratio. Consistent with
the definition of seller’s interest, the final rule also clarifies that the sponsor may not
include in the numerator of the seller’s interest ratio ineligible assets, or those servicing
assets allocated as collateral for a particular series. The agencies have also added
language permitting the sponsor to take a deduction from the denominator (the principal
of outstanding investor ABS interests) equal to the amount of funds held in a segregated
principal accumulation account for the repayment of outstanding investor ABS interests,
subject to certain conditions specified in the rule. 94 For securitized assets without a
principal or stated balance, such as royalty payments or leases, the amount of the
securitized assets is the value of the collateral as determined under the transaction
documents for purposes of measuring the seller’s interest required for the revolving pool
securitization.
The requirements from the reproposal are unchanged with respect to the holding
of the seller’s interests. The rule permits wholly-owned affiliates of the sponsor to retain
the seller’s interest (and the horizontal interests described in section 5 of the rule,
described below). The agencies decline to permit holding by majority-owned affiliates,
as requested by commenters. The agencies are affording the treatment provided to

94

The terms of the securitization documents must prevent funds in the accumulation
account from being applied for any purpose other than the repayment of the unpaid
principal of outstanding investor ABS, and the funds in the account may only be invested
in the types of assets permitted for a horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to section 4
of the rule.

122

seller’s interest in section 5 of the rule because of the special alignment of incentives
created by the sponsor’s interest in maintaining access to continued funding through the
revolving pool securitization, and the agencies seek to maintain this alignment through
this stricter holding requirement under the final rule. The final rule includes changes to
the other affiliate-holding provisions within section 5 to maintain consistency with this
approach. The final rule also clarifies the provisions allowing seller’s interest for “legacy
trust” assets to be held at either the legacy trust level or the issuing entity level. The final
rule, like the reproposal, limits the amount of seller’s interest that may be held at the
legacy trust level to its proportional share of the combined securitized assets of the two
trusts. The text has been clarified to indicate that this proportional share is determined
based on the principal balance of the securitized assets in each trust. The final rule also
clarifies that the proportion of seller’s interest held at the legacy trust level must be equal
to this proportion. 95 Commenters requested the agencies permit legacy trusts to retain
horizontal forms of risk retention at either level, but the comments did not provide details
of these structures. Without more details about the structures commenters seek to
accommodate, the agencies have not made changes to section 5 of the rule in this regard.
The agencies made changes requested by commenters to allow for dollar-fordollar offset from the 5 percent seller’s interest requirement for funds maintained in a
segregated excess funding account that is funded from distributions otherwise payable to
the holder of the seller’s interest. The agencies expanded the funding trigger

95

The reproposal indicated that the legacy trust must hold at least that proportion of
seller’s interest, but also suggested the sponsor would be permitted to hold a greater
proportion of seller’s interest at the legacy trust. The final rule clarifies that the
proportion must be the same.

123

requirements for the account to include the sponsor’s failure to meet the minimum
seller’s interest requirement, and the failure to meet other minimum securitized asset
balance tests under the transaction documents. 96 The agencies agree with the
commenters that losses would not be allocated to an excess funding account, and have
removed a pari passu requirement on the priority of such distributions to the account. 97
In order to expand the issuing entity’s flexibility slightly to hold the account in a form
other than cash deposits, the agencies have also decided to add language permitting
investments in the same assets permitted for a horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to
section 4 of the rule.
The final rule retains the reproposal’s provisions allowing the sponsor to reduce
its seller’s interest to a percentage lower than 5 percent to the extent that, for all series of
investor ABS interests issued by the revolving pool securitization, the sponsor retains, at
a minimum, a corresponding fair value percentage of subordinated risk retention. This
treatment is available with respect to the same two forms of subordinated risk retention
the agencies included in the reproposal. As discussed in more detail below, the agencies
have revised the requirements of each type slightly, in light of sponsor comments stating
that existing structures would not be able to comply with the reproposed rule. An
example of the reduction in seller’s interest permitted by the final rule is as follows: a

96

Commenters described a common test requiring the principal balance of the
securitized assets to be not less than the sum of the numerators used for each series’
calculation of its seller’s interest ratio to allocate principal collections to the investor
ABS interests.
97

As in the reproposal, the account must, in the event of early amortization, pay out to
outstanding investor ABS interest holders in the same manner as distributions on the
securitized assets.

124

revolving pool securitization sponsor holds a seller’s interest in the issuing entity’s
common collateral pool equal to 2 percent of the aggregate balance of outstanding
investor ABS interests issued by the securitization. The securitization has two
outstanding series; for one series the sponsor retains a residual interest in excess interest
and fees with a fair value of 5 percent of the fair value of outstanding investor ABS
interests in that series, and for the other, the sponsor retains a horizontal interest with a
fair value of 3 percent of the fair value of outstanding investor ABS interests in that
series. This revolving pool securitization holds adequate risk retention to comply with
section 5 of the rule. So long as the structure in this example only holds 2 percent seller’s
interest, every future series issued to investors will be required to be supported by at least
a 3 percent fair value subordinated interest.
For revolving pool securitizations relying on both seller’s interest and
subordinated risk retention, commenters requested the agencies grandfather all series
issued prior to the applicable effective date of the rule with respect to the subordinated
portion of risk retention. For example, for a revolving pool securitization in which the
sponsor holds 2 percent seller’s interest, these commenters urged the agencies to permit
the structure to come into compliance with the rule by continuing to maintain the 2
percent seller’s interest and supplement it with at least a 3 percent horizontal interest to
support each series issued to investors after the applicable effective date of the rule.
Commenters said that, unless the agencies permit this grandfathering approach, a
revolving pool securitization with less than 5 percent seller’s interest would have no
option other than to increase its seller’s interest to 5 percent. Commenters asserted it was
not feasible to grandfather existing series issued before the applicable effective date of

125

the rule with respect to a seller’s interest, since a seller’s interest is an interest in the
securitization’s entire collateral pool, and this factor raises serious obstacles to
implementing it on a series-by-series basis. The agencies agree that the grandfathering
approach requested by commenters should achieve meaningful risk retention in ABS
interests issued in a revolving pool securitization after the applicable effective date of the
rule, and the approach is reflected in the final rule text. 98
In the reproposal, the agencies sought to give revolving pool securitizations the
above-described offset credit against a seller’s interest for two different forms of
horizontal risk retention. The first form was based on the sponsor’s interest in excess
interest and fees, as described above, made available to the sponsor periodically after
covering the trust’s expenses, interest due on more senior ABS interests in the series for
that payment date, and charge-offs for that period that would otherwise be allocated to
more senior ABS interests. Some revolving pool securitizations allocate each series its
ratable share of interest and fee collections from the pool collateral and apply the interest
and fee collections only within each series, while others permit sharing of excess interest
and fee collections to cover shortfalls in another series after application of its share of
interest and fee collections. The agencies proposed to allow sponsors to use the fair value
of this residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, as a percentage of the fair value
of outstanding investor ABS interests, to reduce their 5 percent minimum seller’s interest.
As discussed above, commenters said they anticipated the burden of calculating the fair

98

Specifically, section 5(f) of the rule provides that the seller’s interest requirement
would be reduced by the subordinated portion of risk retention support for all series of
ABS interests issued by the revolving pool securitization after the applicable effective
date of the rule.

126

value of these excess interest and fees on a monthly basis would be so high that few, if
any, sponsors would avail themselves of the option. The agencies note that this is a
residual interest comprised of a stream of future cash flows, and no commenter suggested
any other reasonable methodology to assign a value to it for purposes of determining the
required amount of risk retention. To address this burden, the final rule does not require
the sponsor to disclose its fair value determination to investors monthly. The sponsor
also must continue to calculate the fair value of the residual ABS interest in excess
interest and fees at the same time the sponsor calculates the seller’s interest, to verify that
it continues to hold at least the minimum required amount of risk retention. 99
The agencies have made two clarifying changes to the text of the final rule. First,
at the request of commenters, the agencies have eliminated the requirement that the
sponsor’s residual claim to the interest and fee cash flows for any interest payment period
be subordinated to all accrued and payable principal due on the payment date to more
senior ABS interests in the series for that period. Commenters asserted this requirement

99

To reduce burden further, the rule permits the periodic determinations of this residual
interest’s fair value percentage to be made without re-determining the fair value of the
outstanding investor ABS interests in the denominator. The sponsor may, at its option,
carry forward the fair values of the outstanding investor ABS interests from the
determinations made for the closings of the transactions in which those outstanding
investor ABS interests were issued (which are likely to be based on observable market
data at that time). Only the fair value of the residual ABS interest in the numerator of the
ratio needs to be determined every period. The agencies recognize that, for revolving
pool securitizations with one or more amortizing series, this approach may result in a
larger denominator and thus a larger residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees.
The final rule permits a sponsor to elect to make monthly redeterminations of the fair
value of such amortizing series in connection with their periodic determinations.

127

was correct for interest due (as the rule provides), but not for principal. 100 The agencies
have eliminated the “and principal” language contained in the interest subordination
paragraph, and have also eliminated the requirement that the residual have the most
subordinated claim to any part of the series’ share of principal repayment cash flows. 101
In addition, the agencies have clarified that, in applying interest and fees to reduce the
series’ share of losses for the applicable period, these losses must include charge-offs that
were not covered by available interest and fees in previous periods. The agencies believe
this clarification is appropriate to prevent sponsors from receiving payments of excess
spread on a period-by-period basis for pools that have suffered un-covered losses on
securitized assets in previous periods. 102
The second form of subordinated risk retention the agencies would have
recognized in the reproposal for purposes of reducing the required amount of seller’s
interest would have been an eligible horizontal residual interest the sponsor
simultaneously held in the securitization’s outstanding series of ABS interests. The

100

One group of commenters also said the obligation to pay default-rate interest is
typically subordinated to payment of the contract-rate interest and coverage for allocated
charge-offs. The agencies regard this as desirable in that it uses available excess spread
first to protect investors from losses. At any rate, the arrangement described by
commenters in this regard means that the sponsor only claims excess interest and fee
collections remaining after covering both types of “interest,” which is in compliance with
the rule text.

101

Commenters requested the agencies eliminate the separate waterfall requirement from
the option, citing concern that single-waterfall revolving pool securitizations could not
utilize the structure. Commenters did not elaborate on how the residual ABS interest in
excess interest and fees would be separately identified or valued in such an approach.
Since the separate waterfall requirement is a central element of the option, the agencies
have retained it.

102

This eliminates possible incentives for sponsors to attempt to cluster charge-offs into
particular periods.

128

reproposal required these interests to meet all the requirements for the standard form of
eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to section 4 of the reproposed rule.
Commenters asserted that revolving pool securitizations that retain a residual ABS
interest in excess interest and fees could not simultaneously satisfy the requirement
pursuant to section 4 that the eligible horizontal residual interest have the most
subordinated claim to interest and principal. Commenters said a residual ABS interest in
excess interest and fees is typically structured first to apply a series’ share of excess
interest and fees each period to cover the series’ share of trust expenses and the interest
due to each tranche of ABS interests in the series; second to apply remaining excess
interest and fees to cover charge-offs allocated to more senior ABS interests in the series;
and third to make the remainder available to the sponsor (net of portions shared with
other series, in some structures). Commenters said that this subordinated interest is
typically structured to pay interest to the holder before excess interest and fee collections
are applied to cover the series’ share of charge-offs. Accordingly, this residual interest
would not have the most subordinated claim to interest. 103 The agencies note that, now
that the final rule recognizes subordinated forms of seller’s interest, the residual interest
may not be the most subordinated claim to principal distributions to the sponsor from the
seller’s interest, depending on the particulars of the transaction.
In order to permit sponsors to offset their seller’s interest with either of the two
forms of horizontal risk retention included in the reproposal, the agencies have modified

103

Commenters also said the cash flow restrictions in section 4 were not workable for
revolving pool securitizations. As discussed elsewhere in this Supplementary
Information, these restrictions are not included in the final rule.

129

the subordination requirements that would be required for eligible horizontal residual
interest, to accommodate the issues described in the preceding paragraph. The final rule
provides that a sponsor may take the seller’s interest offset for ABS interests that would
meet the definition of eligible horizontal residual interest in section 2 of the rule but for
the sponsor’s simultaneous holding of subordinated seller’s interests, residual ABS
interest in excess interest and fees, or a combination thereof. In connection with this
approach, the sponsor’s fair value determination for this horizontal residual interest must
not incorporate any value attributable to the sponsor’s holdings of subordinated seller’s
interest or residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees.
Under the final rule, if the sponsor is also taking risk retention credit for its
residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, the sponsor may not include any of the
interest payments to itself on this offset eligible horizontal residual interest (“offset
EHRI”) in determining the fair value of the offset EHRI. Similarly, if the sponsor is
taking risk retention credit for subordinated seller’s interest that is used to reduce chargeoffs that would otherwise be allocated to reduce the principal of the offset EHRI, the
sponsor may not include any principal payments on the offset EHRI in determining the
fair value of the offset EHRI. The agencies believe this bright-line rule provides an
appropriate compromise between flexibility for sponsors and clarity for investors and
regulators as to the nature of the risk retention interests upon which a sponsor relies to
comply with the final rule.
Under the final rule, if the sponsor seeks to rely on offset EHRI as part of its risk
retention interest for purpose of compliance with the rule, any subordinated seller’s
interest or residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees retained by the sponsor must

130

also comply with the applicable requirements of section 5 of the rule. This is true even if
the sponsor is not asserting reliance on these subordinated seller’s interests or residual
ABS interests in excess interest and fees as part of its retained risk retention interests to
comply with the rule.
Commenters said that sponsors sought the ability to continue incorporating
subordinated seller’s interest or residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees into their
deal structures and simultaneously retain a junior bond, while still having the flexibility
to choose which combination of those interests the sponsor would use to comply with the
risk retention requirements. Commenters placed particular importance on retaining the
flexibility to do this without being required to engage in fair value determinations for the
interests the sponsor does not count for purposes of regulatory compliance. Taken
together, the agencies believe that these rules for offset EHRI provide an appropriate
framework to accommodate that flexibility. 104
The final rule requires the sponsor to make the percentage fair value determination for offset EHRI, and to make investor disclosures, at the same time and in the same
manner as is required for the standard form of eligible horizontal residual interest
pursuant to section 4 of the rule. Consistent with the treatment of the standard form of
eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to section 4 of the rule, the sponsor is only

104

As an example, a sponsor could rely on a pari passu seller’s interest and supplement it
with the fair value of principal payments on an offset EHRI, at the same time the sponsor
retained a residual interest in excess spread but did not rely on that interest for purposes
of satisfying its risk retention requirements. Or for a revolving pool securitization of
assets that do not generate significant excess spread, the sponsor might rely on a
subordinated seller’s interest and supplement it with the fair value of interest payments
on an offset EHRI, since its residual interest in excess interest and fee collections would
provide a lesser contribution to satisfying the sponsor’s risk retention obligations.

131

required to perform the fair value determination for offset EHRI with respect to the initial
issuance of the ABS interests supported by the offset eligible horizontal residual interest.
The final rule similarly requires a sponsor using a residual ABS interest in excess interest
and fees to disclose the fair value of the interest in the same manner as required for
eligible horizontal residual interests pursuant to section 4. To accommodate the
fluctuating nature of securitized assets and outstanding investor ABS interests present in
revolving pool securitizations, the final rule’s valuation and disclosure provisions for
offset EHRI and residual ABS interests in excess interest and fees allow the use of
specific dates for data on securitized assets and outstanding investor ABS interests, and
adjustments to these amounts in connection with pre-sale disclosures. These provisions
are the same as those governing the determination of minimum seller’s interest, as
described above.
Consistent with the agencies’ reproposal, the final rule also makes clear that there
is no sunset date for revolving pool securitization risk retention interests. The basis for
the agencies’ decision to propose a sunset date for risk retention was that sound
underwriting is less likely to be effectively promoted by risk retention after a certain
period of time has passed and a peak number of delinquencies for an asset class has
occurred. In the case of a revolving pool securitization, this rationale does not apply,
since the sponsor continually transfers additional assets into the common pool of
collateral. 105 For a seller’s interest, the rule text continues to specify that the seller’s

105

Even if the pool consists of receivables created by revolving accounts, successful
underwriting of revolving account credits is an ongoing process for the life of the credit
line.

132

interest must be measured and satisfied at least monthly until no ABS interest in the
issuing entity is held by any person which is not a wholly-owned affiliate of the
sponsor. 106 For other forms of risk retention employed by a revolving pool securitization
sponsor, the applicable provision on sunset is in section 12(f) of the rule. Notably, this
provision only lifts the transfer and hedging restrictions of section 12 of the rule at “the
latest of” amortization of the securitized assets to 33 percent of the original balance,
amortization of the principal amount of the ABS interests to 33 percent of their original
balance, or two years after closing. Since the common pool of securitized assets
continually revolves and the ABS interests typically are not paid principal until maturity,
neither the securitized assets nor the ABS interests amortize down to 33 percent of the
original unpaid balance (absent an early amortization).
Commenters requested several additional changes concerning the rules for
holding and measuring a seller’s interest. One commenter requested the agencies strike
the element of the definition of seller’s interest that describes it as an ABS interest. The
commenter requested the agencies allow sponsors to hold anything that was the economic
equivalent of the seller’s interest, regardless of form. The agencies are not making this
change because they believe the rule’s definition of “ABS interest” provides sufficient
flexibility, balanced against the agencies’ interest in certainty and clarity regarding how a
sponsor achieves compliance with the rule. With respect to the form requirements for an
ABS interest, the definition applies to any type of interest, whether certificated or

106

The agencies have modified the rule text to clarify that holding by an affiliate for
these purposes means holding by a wholly-owned affiliate. This is consistent with the
other affiliation requirements of section 5 of the rule.

133

uncertificated, and includes beneficial interests and residual interests. This provides
flexibility for sponsors and imposes no specific requirements as to form or
documentation, but at the same time maintains a basic requirement for the sponsor to be
able to demonstrate that the legal source of its entitlement to payments from, and its
obligation to share losses of, the securitized assets are consistent with the rule’s
requirements for a risk retention interest.
Another group of commenters requested the agencies modify the holding
requirements for sponsors reducing their 5 percent seller’s interest requirement with
offsetting horizontal interests. As described above, the sponsor must demonstrate that it
holds the offset percentage as a minimum percentage for every series of outstanding
investor ABS interests. 107 Commenters requested the agencies permit sponsors to
determine they satisfied the requirement on a weighted average basis taken across all
outstanding series. The agencies decline to incorporate this approach because it would
result in at least some series of outstanding investor ABS interests with less than 5
percent risk retention. Commenters also requested sponsors be permitted to take partial
risk retention credit for horizontal interests the sponsor holds jointly with another party,
on a pro rata basis. The agencies note this is not permitted for the standard form of

107

Commenters also expressed the view that the reproposal did not provide sponsors
with the flexibility to offset their minimum seller’s interest percentage with a form of
horizontal risk retention that supported more than one outstanding series. In this regard,
the agencies note that the final rule requires the sponsor to satisfy the minimum floor for
every series issued after the applicable effective date of the rule, but that it does not
require them to hold that risk retention in each series. The rule does not prevent sponsors
from incorporating residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees or offset EHRI that
are structured to support more than one series, or structured to support delinked
structures, so long as the sponsor demonstrates the structure satisfies the rule’s
requirements as to the terms of those horizontal interests.

134

eligible horizontal residual interest, and commenters did not provide sufficient
justification for treating offset EHRI any differently.
The agencies revised the disclosure requirements of section 5 of the rule in a
manner consistent with the agencies’ revisions to the disclosure requirements throughout
the rule, with appropriate variations for valuation of seller’s interest and offsetting
subordinated interests as described above.
The reproposal also included provisions clarifying that a master trust entering
early amortization and winding down would not, as a result, violate the rule’s
requirement that the seller’s interest be pari passu. Commenters requested changes to the
details of these provisions, to reflect more accurately the way early amortization triggers
are actually structured. In response to commenter concerns, the agencies have revised the
rule text to apply when the securitization has entered early amortization, rather than
focusing on the technical trigger events that result in an early amortization
commencing. 108 Nevertheless, the agencies also believe that the revisions permitting
subordination of the seller’s interest make this portion of the final rule less significant
than it was when the agencies would have required the seller’s interest to be pari passu.
For servicing advance receivables, the agencies note that the final rule permits
sponsors of revolving pool securitizations to rely on subordinated forms of seller’s

108

The agencies have also eliminated the paragraph limiting the provision to pools of
revolving assets. The language was included in the reproposal based on concerns about
potential evasive structures, but the agencies have now directly addressed that issue in the
discussion of revolving pool securitizations that amortize without issuing a second series
of investor ABS interests collateralized by the common pool of assets.

135

interest to meet their risk retention requirements, which largely addresses the source of
the commenters’ concerns.
3. Representative Sample
a. Overview of Reproposal and Public Comment
The original proposal would have allowed a sponsor to satisfy its risk retention
requirement for a securitization transaction by retaining ownership of a randomly
selected representative sample of assets. To ensure that the sponsor retained exposure to
substantially the same type of credit risk as investors in the securitized transaction, the
sponsor electing to use the representatives sample option would have been required to
construct a “designated pool” of assets consisting of at least 1,000 separate assets from
which the securitized assets and the assets comprising the representative sample would be
drawn. The original proposal also would have required a number of other measures in
calculating the representative sample to ensure the integrity of the process of selection,
including a requirement to obtain a report regarding agreed-upon procedures from an
independent public accounting firm. 109
Many commenters opposed the representative sample in the original proposal,
noting that it would be impractical to implement this option for a variety of reasons,
including that it would be unworkable with respect to various asset classes, would be
subject to manipulation, and was too burdensome with respect to its disclosure
requirements. Due to these concerns and a conclusion that the representative sample
option would likely be too difficult to implement, the agencies did not include a

109

See Original Proposal, 76 FR at 24104.

136

representative sample option in the reproposed rule. Instead, the agencies invited
comment on whether a representative sample option should be included as a form of risk
retention, and, if so, how should such an option be constructed, and what benefits such an
option might provide.
The agencies received several responses to this request for comment. While some
commenters were supportive of the reproposal’s elimination of the representative sample
option, many commenters urged the agencies to reconsider including the option in a
simplified form. Several commenters recommended a simplified version of a
representative sample option similar to the representative sample option included in the
FDIC’s safe harbor for securitizations, which (prior to the applicable effective date of the
final rule) requires that the retained sample be representative of the securitized asset pool,
but does not specify the requirements for establishing that the sample is representative
and, accordingly, does not itemize specific items, such as servicing, accountant reports or
other requirements. 110 Commenters asserted that the representative sample option is one
of the two permitted forms of risk retention under the existing FDIC safe harbor and that
the approach has been working effectively for several banks that issue asset-backed
securities. One commenter stated that its sponsor members would strongly prefer to have
a representative sample method as an alternative option, even if the final rule is more
burdensome than they would prefer.
Commenters indicated that the representative sample is one of the alternative
methods of risk retention permitted under Article 122a of the European Union’s Capital

110

See 12 CFR 360.6.

137

Markets Directive, and that if the representative sample is not included it may place U.S.
issuers at a competitive disadvantage against asset-backed securities issuers from outside
the United States, and could make it more difficult for global offerings of asset-backed
securities originated outside the United States to be sold to investors in the United States.
Many commenters indicated that a revised representative sample option would be
particularly useful for automobile loan and lease securitizations. Commenters also stated
that the option would be useful more generally for large pools of consumer or retail
assets, such as student loans, and for sponsors that do not securitize all of their assets. In
order to facilitate use by sponsors for these types of securitizations, commenters
generally agreed that the agencies should revise the option so that (i) a sponsor selects a
designated pool of assets for securitization (ii) then uses a random selection process to
select a ‘sample’ of assets with an aggregate unpaid principal balance equal to 5 percent
of the pool and (iii) that the pool should be sufficiently large to ensure that the sample is
representative of the assets in the pool. To accomplish (iii), commenters suggested that a
pool size of 5,500 or 6,000 loans would be sufficient to achieve a high confidence level
that the sample shares significant asset characteristics with the securitized pool.
A commenter suggested that additional criteria could be added such as
documentation of material asset characteristics and a description of the policies and
procedures that the sponsor used to ensure that the sample identification process complies
with the risk retention requirement. The commenter also recommended that
documentation identifying the representative sample be maintained for the same duration
required for a vertical risk retention interest and that the assets be excluded from the
securitization pool and from any other securitization for such time period. Other

138

commenters favored simpler disclosures, such as a statement that the composition of the
sample was prepared in accordance with the rule’s requirements, and a description of the
method used to randomly select assets.
A few commenters suggested that additional criteria could be added specifically
to address smaller pool sizes, such as the criteria above, or a ‘resampling’ requirement if
the sample is not sufficiently similar to the securitized pool. Other commenters
expressed the view that a sponsor should not be required to ‘rework’ the pool based on a
post hoc examination of the performance of the sample pool compared to the securitized
pool.
b. Response to Comments and Final Rule
Having considered the comments, the agencies have concluded that adopting the
recommendations made by commenters would be insufficient to address concerns about
the practicality of obtaining an adequate and truly representative sample, while providing
sufficient flexibility for use of the option in more than extremely limited scenarios.
Furthermore, the agencies concur with commenters’ views that, at a minimum, a large
number of loans would be required depending on the variability of asset characteristics in
order to ensure an adequate sample, which greatly reduces the number of asset classes
that would be able to utilize the option.
The agencies do not believe that adopting the disclosure, servicing, and
independent review requirements as recommended by commenters would be sufficiently
robust to ensure the effectiveness of the representative sample option and to minimize the
ability of sponsors to “cherry pick” assets favorable to them, which would result in the
risk retention sample having a better risk profile than the assets collateralizing the ABS

139

issued to investors. In addition, unless large pools of loans are already largely
homogeneous, a random sample will not necessarily be a representative sample. The
agencies do not believe that effective pool consistency standards would be any less
burdensome or objectionable than the sample validation standards. Even if an approach
that met the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act could be developed, the
agencies acknowledge that the costs of such requirements could be overly burdensome
for sponsors. Furthermore, in light of the revisions that have been made to other aspects
of the rule, the agencies believe that the final rule’s risk retention options should provide
a workable risk retention option for various asset classes including auto loan, auto lease,
and student loan securitizations. The agencies believe these additional risk retention
options will be more cost effective than the representative sample option in the original
proposal and will more effectively align the interests of sponsors and investors.
Therefore, the final rule does not include a representative sample option.
4. Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Conduits
a. Overview of the Reproposal and Public Comments
As explained in the original proposal and reproposal, ABCP is a type of liability
that is typically issued to investors by a special purpose vehicle (commonly referred to as
a “conduit”) sponsored by a financial institution or other sponsor. The commercial paper
issued by the ABCP conduit is collateralized by a pool of asset-backed securities, which
may change over the life of the entity. Depending on the type of ABCP conduit, the
securitized assets collateralizing the ABS interests that support the ABCP may consist of
a wide range of assets including securitized automobile loans, commercial loans, trade
receivables, credit card receivables, student loans, and other loans. Historically, these

140

programs came about as a way for banks to extend commercial firms credit at a lower
cost than bank-funded working capital lines or trade receivable financing. Like other
types of commercial paper, the term of ABCP typically is short, and the liabilities are
“rolled,” or refinanced, at regular intervals. Thus, ABCP conduits generally fund longerterm assets with shorter-term liabilities. 111 During the financial crisis, however, ABCP
conduits experienced acute distress, which revealed significant structural weaknesses in
certain ABCP conduit structures, particularly those ABCP conduits that did not have 100
percent liquidity commitments, and exposed investors and the financial system to
significant risks. 112
In a typical ABCP conduit, the sponsor approves the originators whose loans or
receivables will collateralize the ABS interests that support the ABCP issued by the
conduit. Banks can use ABCP conduits that they sponsor to meet the borrowing needs of
a bank customer and offer that customer a more attractive cost of funds than a
commercial loan or a traditional debt or equity financing. In such a transaction, the
customer (an “originator-seller”) may sell loans or receivables to an intermediate,
bankruptcy remote SPV. The credit risk of the loans or receivables transferred to the
intermediate SPV then typically is separated into two classes – a senior ABS interest that
is acquired by the ABCP conduit and a residual ABS interest that absorbs first losses on
the loans or receivables and that is retained by the originator-seller. The residual ABS

111

See section 9 of the Original Proposal.

112

Daniel M. Covitz, Nellie Liang, and Gustavo A. Suarez, “The Evolution of a
Financial Crisis: Panic in the Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Market,” Finance and
Economics Discussion Series 2009-36 (Washington: Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, August 2009).

141

interest retained by the originator-seller typically is sized with the intention that it be
sufficiently large to absorb all losses on the securitized assets.
In this structure, the ABCP conduit, in turn, issues short-term ABCP that is
collateralized by the senior ABS interests purchased from one or more intermediate SPVs
(which are supported by the subordination provided by the residual ABS interests
retained by the originator-sellers). The sponsor of this type of ABCP conduit, which is
usually a bank or other regulated financial institution or an affiliate or subsidiary of a
bank or other regulated financial institution, also typically provides (or arranges for
another regulated financial institution or group of financial institution to provide) 100
percent liquidity coverage on the ABCP issued by the conduit. This liquidity coverage
typically requires the support provider to provide funding to, or purchase assets or ABCP
from, the ABCP conduit in the event that the conduit lacks the funds necessary to repay
maturing ABCP issued by the conduit.
The agencies’ original proposal included an ABCP option that incorporated
several conditions designed to ensure that the ABCP option would have been available
only to the type of single-seller or multi-seller ABCP conduits described above. The
proposed ABCP option would only have been available to ABCP conduits that issued
ABCP with a maximum maturity at the time of issuance of nine months. Under the
original proposal, a sponsor of an ABCP conduit program would have been eligible for
the proposed ABCP option if a “regulated liquidity provider” (defined in the rule
generally to mean banks and certain bank affiliates) provided 100 percent liquidity
support to the ABCP conduit and the originator-sellers retained a 5 percent horizontal
residual interest in each intermediate special purpose vehicle containing the assets they

142

finance through the ABCP conduit. Under the original proposal, this risk retention option
would have been available to ABCP conduits collateralized by ABS interests that were
issued or initially sold by intermediate SPVs that sold ABS interests exclusively to ABCP
conduits and would not have been available to ABCP conduits that purchased securities
in the secondary market or operated securities arbitrage programs. 113.
In the reproposal, the agencies maintained an option tailored for ABCP
securitization transactions that retained the basic structure of the original proposal with
modifications based in part on comments. The modifications were intended to
accommodate certain market practices referred to by commenters, while maintaining a
meaningful risk retention requirement. The reproposal would have permitted the sponsor
of an eligible ABCP conduit to satisfy its risk retention requirement if, for each ABS
interest the ABCP conduit acquired from an intermediate SPV, the intermediate SPV’s
sponsor (the ‘originator-seller’ with respect to the ABCP conduit) retained an exposure to
the assets collateralizing the intermediate SPV in the appropriate form and amount under
the rule, provided that all other conditions to this option were satisfied. The agencies
reaffirmed the view expressed in the original proposal that such an approach is
appropriate in light of the considerations set forth in section 15G(d)(2) of the Exchange
Act. 114

113

Such ABCP conduits purchase securities in the secondary market and typically either
lack such liquidity facilities or have liquidity coverage that is more limited than those of
the ABCP conduits eligible to rely on this option for purposes of the proposed rule.

114

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57949; Original Proposal, 76 FR at 24107.

143

In response to comments, the reproposal would have included additional
flexibility not present in the original proposal to permit affiliated groups of originatorsellers to finance credits through a single intermediate SPV. Under the reproposal, both
an originator-seller and a “majority-owned originator-seller affiliate” (majority-owned
OS affiliate) could have sold or transferred assets that these entities had originated to an
intermediate SPV. A majority-owned OS affiliate was defined as an entity that, directly
or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by, or is under common majority
control with, an originator-seller. For purposes of this definition, majority control would
have meant ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity or ownership of
any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.
However, consistent with the original proposal, intermediate SPVs would not be
permitted to acquire assets from non-affiliates.
The reproposal required the ABCP conduit sponsor to: (i) approve each
originator-seller and majority-owned OS affiliate permitted to sell or transfer assets,
directly or indirectly, to an intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit
acquires ABS interests; (ii) approve each intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP
conduit is permitted to acquire ABS interests; (iii) establish criteria governing the ABS
interests, and the assets underlying the ABS interests, acquired by the ABCP conduit; (iv)
administer the ABCP conduit by monitoring the ABS interests acquired by the ABCP
conduit and the assets supporting those ABS interests, arranging for debt placement,
compiling monthly reports, and ensuring compliance with the ABCP conduit documents
and with the ABCP conduit’s credit and investment policy; and (v) maintain and adhere

144

to policies and procedures for ensuring that the requirements described above have been
met.
The reproposal also permitted there to be one or more intermediate SPVs between
an originator-seller and/or any majority-owned OS affiliate and the intermediate SPV that
issues ABS interests purchased by the ABCP conduit. 115 The reproposal redefined
“intermediate SPV” as a direct or indirect wholly-owned affiliate 116 of the originatorseller that is bankruptcy remote or otherwise isolated for insolvency purposes from the
eligible ABCP conduit, the originator-seller, and any majority-owned OS affiliate that,
directly or indirectly, sells or transfers assets to such intermediate SPV. 117 Consequently,
an intermediate SPV was permitted to acquire assets originated by the originator-seller or
one or more of its majority-owned OS affiliates, or it could also have acquired assets
from another intermediate SPV or asset-backed securities from another intermediate SPV
collateralized solely by securitized assets originated by the originator-seller or one or
more of its majority-owned OS affiliate and servicing assets. 118 ABS interests
collateralized by assets not originated by the originator-seller or by a majority-owned OS
affiliate would have been ineligible as collateral for the ABCP conduit.

115

As indicated in the comments on the original proposal, there are instances where, for
legal or other purposes, there is a need for multiple intermediate SPVs.

116

See section 2 of the Revised Proposal (definition of “affiliate”).

117

See section 2 of the Revised Proposal (definition of “Intermediate SPV”).

118

The reproposal required each intermediate SPV in structures with one or more
multiple intermediate SPVs that do not issue asset-backed securities collateralized solely
by ABS interests to be a pass-through entity that either transfers assets to another SPV in
anticipation of securitization (e.g., a depositor) or transfer ABS interests to the ABCP
conduit or another intermediate SPV.

145

The reproposal also would have relaxed activity restrictions on intermediate
SPVs, by permitting an intermediate SPV to sell asset-backed securities that it issues to
third parties other than ABCP conduits. 119
The reproposal would have clarified and expanded (as compared to the original
proposal) the types of collateral that an eligible ABCP conduit could acquire from an
originator-seller and its majority-owned affiliates. 120 Under the revised reproposal
definition of “eligible ABCP conduit”, an ABCP conduit could acquire any of the
following types of assets: (1) ABS interests collateralized by securitized assets originated
by an originator-seller or one or more majority-owned OS affiliates of the originatorseller and servicing assets; (2) special units of beneficial interest or similar interests in a
trust or special purpose vehicle that retains legal title to leased property underlying leases
that are transferred to an intermediate SPV in connection with a securitization
collateralized solely by such leases originated by an originator-seller or one or more
majority-owned OS affiliates and servicing assets; and (3) interests in a revolving master
trust collateralized solely by assets originated by an originator-seller or one or more

119

As explained in the reproposal, the agencies believe that some originator-sellers
operate a revolving master trust to finance extensions of credit the originator-seller
creates in connection with its business operations. The master trust sometimes issues a
series of asset-backed securities collateralized by an interest in those credits directly to
investors through a private placement transaction or registered offering, and other times
issues an interest to an eligible ABCP conduit. The reproposal was designed to
accommodate such practices.

120

The purpose of this clarification was to allow originator-sellers certain additional
flexibility in structuring their participation in eligible ABCP conduits, while retaining the
core principle that the assets being financed have been originated by the originator-seller
or a majority-controlled OS affiliate, not purchased in the secondary market and
aggregated.

146

majority-owned OS affiliates and servicing assets. 121 Under the proposal, the ABCP
option would have been available only for ABCP conduits that were bankruptcy remote
or otherwise isolated from insolvency of the sponsor and from any intermediate SPV.
Assets other than the ABS interests and servicing assets, such as loans or receivables
purchased directly by an ABCP conduit or loans or receivables acquired by an originatorseller, its majority-owned OS affiliates or an intermediate SPV in the secondary market,
would have been expressly disqualified.
The reproposal also would have expanded the risk retention options available to
an originator-seller, in its capacity as sponsor of the underlying ABS interests issued by
the intermediate SPV, by allowing an eligible ABCP conduit to purchase interests for
which the originator-seller or a majority-owned OS affiliate retained risk using the
standard risk retention or seller’s interest options.
The reproposal also would have required a regulated liquidity provider to enter
into a legally binding commitment to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage of all the
ABCP issued by the issuing entity and would have clarified that 100 percent liquidity
coverage means that, in the event that the ABCP conduit is unable for any reason to repay
maturing ABCP issued by the issuing entity, the total amount for which the liquidity
provider may be obligated is equal to 100 percent of the amount of ABCP outstanding
plus accrued and unpaid interest. In response to commenters on the original proposal, the
reproposal clarified that the required liquidity coverage would not be subject to credit
performance of the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit or reduced by the amount of

121

The definition of “servicing assets” is discussed in Part II.B of this Supplementary
Information. The agencies are allowing an ABCP conduit to hold servicing assets.

147

credit support provided to the ABCP conduit and that liquidity coverage that only funds
performing assets will not meet the requirements of the ABCP option.
Consistent with the original proposal, under the reproposal the sponsor of an
eligible ABCP conduit would have retained responsibility for ensuring compliance with
the requirements of the ABCP option. 122
With respect to disclosures, the reproposal did not include a requirement that the
sponsor of the ABCP conduit disclose the names of the originator-sellers who sponsored
the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit and instead included a requirement that an
ABCP conduit sponsor promptly notify investors, the Commission, and its appropriate
Federal banking agency, if any, in writing of (1) the name and form of organization of
any originator-seller that fails to maintain its risk retention as required and the amount of
asset-backed securities issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held
by the ABCP conduit; (2) the name and form of organization of any originator-seller or
majority-owned OS affiliate that hedges, directly or indirectly through an intermediate
SPV, its risk retention in violation of its risk retention requirements and the amount of
asset-backed securities issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller or
majority-owned OS affiliate and held by the ABCP conduit; and (3) and any remedial
actions taken by the ABCP conduit sponsor or other party with respect to such assetbacked securities. Consistent with the original proposal, the reproposal would have

122

In response to commenters on the original proposal who requested that the agencies
replace the monitoring obligation with a contractual obligation of an originator-seller to
maintain compliance, the agencies noted their belief that the sponsor of an ABCP conduit
is in the best position to monitor compliance by originator-sellers and majority-owned OS
affiliates.

148

required the sponsor of an ABCP conduit to provide to each purchaser of ABCP
information regarding the regulated liquidity provider, a description of the liquidity
coverage, and notice of any failure to fund. The reproposal also retained the requirement
that a sponsor provide information regarding the collateral underlying ABS interests held
by the ABCP conduit and entities holding risk retention, as well as a description of the
risk retention interests. The reproposal also retained the requirement that a sponsor
provide to the appropriate Federal regulators, upon request, all of the information
required to be provided to investors, as well as the name and form of organization of each
originator-seller or majority-owned OS affiliate retaining an interest in the underlying
securitization transactions. 123
Finally, under the reproposal, the sponsor of an ABCP conduit would have been
required to take other appropriate steps upon learning of a violation by an originatorseller or majority-owned OS affiliate of its risk retention obligations, and listed, as
examples of steps that may be taken, curing any breach of the requirements, or removing
from the eligible ABCP conduit any asset-backed security that does not comply with the
applicable requirements.
Many commenters expressed general support for the revisions made to the ABCP
option and stated that the reproposal provided significantly more flexibility than the
original proposal. However, commenters also indicated that additional revisions would
be necessary in order to ensure that the ABCP option is available to the types of ABCP
programs predominantly available in the current market.

123

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57948.

149

Many commenters requested that the agencies permit additional forms of risk
retention within the ABCP option. Commenters encouraged the agencies to recognize
standby letters of credit, guarantees, liquidity facilities, unfunded liquidity, asset purchase
agreements, repurchase agreements, and other similar support arrangements and credit
enhancements to satisfy the risk retention requirement. Commenters expressed the view
that allowing such additional forms of risk retention would reduce the inconsistency
between the European Union risk retention regime and the U.S. proposal, thus improving
the possibility of cross border offerings. 124 Commenters asserted that these ABCP
conduit features serve the purpose of credit risk retention by allocating credit risk
between asset originators and ABCP conduit sponsors, and aligning incentives between
ABCP conduit sponsors and investors. For example, one commenter asserted that under
existing market practice, transferors of assets into ABCP conduits routinely retain credit
risk in the financed assets in an amount equal to not less than 5 percent of the related
subordinated ABCP notes, so that there is no need for the rule to impose duplicative risk
retention requirements on ABCP conduit managers.
Another commenter asserted that the reproposed rule would increase the costs of
ABCP conduits and substantially reduce the market for ABCP financing, and that the
rules were not necessary to promote high-quality underwriting of ABCP, which the
commenter asserted is already present in the multi-seller ABCP conduits operating in the
current markets. This commenter proposed that sponsors of ABCP collateralized by

124

The European Union credit risk retention regime consists of Articles 405–410 of the
Capital Requirements Regulation developed by the European Banking Authority, and is
available at https://www.eba.europa.eu/regulation-and-policy/single-rulebook/interactivesingle-rulebook/-/interactive-single-rulebook/toc/504.

150

originator-seller asset pools that are underwritten to high credit quality standards should
be permitted to fund 5 percent risk retention either through a cash reserve or through a
cash substitute (e.g., irrevocable unconditional letter of credit or credit facility) and
should be permitted to rely on committed liquidity facilities that are limited to financing
only performing assets.
One commenter expressed the view that the risk retention requirement should not
apply to ABCP conduits collateralized by repurchase agreements because the repurchase
agreements provide liquidity. One commenter stated that some conduits do not apply
asset collections to the payment of ABCP issued by such conduits but instead, in the
ordinary course, pay their maturing notes directly from funds provided by their liquidity
support providers. This commenter stated that, although the agencies have to date
declined to recognize unfunded loan commitments to ABCP conduits as valid risk
retention, a repurchase counterparty is contractually obligated from the outset to
repurchase the assets from the ABCP conduit, and therefore retains credit risk throughout
the term of the transaction. 125
Many commenters requested a full exemption from risk retention under section
15G of the Exchange Act for ABCP conduits with certain features or structures. For
example, one commenter asserted that fully-supported bank-sponsored conduits should
be exempt from risk retention, regardless of whether the conduit satisfied other criteria

125

The agencies do not believe there is sufficient basis to distinguish an ABCP conduit
collateralized by repurchase agreements from other issuances of ABS interests. As a
result, the sponsor of an ABCP conduit collateralized by repurchase agreements would be
required to satisfy the requirements of the final rule.

151

set forth in the rule, because 100 percent of the credit risk is retained by the bank sponsor,
and the only risk to investors would be the risk of the sponsoring institution itself.
Some commenters asserted that arrangers and managers of ABCP conduits are not
“sponsors,” and claimed that there is no valid basis for imposing risk retention
requirements on these parties. One commenter asked for clarification as to who will be
deemed a sponsor of ABCP issued by an ABCP conduit. One of these commenters
disagreed with the agencies’ position that in selecting the assets, one can be characterized
as “transferring” those assets to the issuer. This commenter expressed the view that the
word “transfer,” as used in section 15G and in the reproposal, cannot reasonably be
interpreted to include a conduit manager’s selection of the assets that its conduit will
purchase. This commenter cited to case law that the term “transfer” should be defined by
reference to its “commonly accepted meaning”; and a conduit manager does not itself
sell, assign or deliver any assets to the conduit, so that it has not engaged in a “transfer.”
Several commenters expressed the view that the proposed nine-month restriction
on the maximum maturity at issuance for ABCP would be unnecessarily restrictive.
Commenters asserted that while historical commercial paper maturities may have been
shorter, many aspects of the international liquidity standards for banking organizations
established by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision’s “Basel liquidity
standards,” including the liquidity coverage ratio and the proposed net stable funding
ratio may combine to push average maturities out further. To address these concerns,
commenters suggested that the maximum maturity for ABCP held by an eligible ABCP
conduit be extended to 397 days, which is the maximum remaining maturity for securities

152

that are eligible for purchase by money market mutual funds pursuant to Rule 2a-7 under
the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended. 126
The agencies received several comments regarding the definition of “eligible
ABCP conduit.” Several commenters expressed concern that limitations on assets that
may be acquired by ABCP conduits were too restrictive. Commenters stated that many
ABCP conduits hold assets that are not asset-backed securities, such as loans or
receivables purchased directly from originators under a deferred purchase price note,
which the commenters asserted is a customary structure by which conduits now finance
originator-seller’s assets, not the originator-seller securitization structure required by the
reproposal. Commenters also expressed concern that ABCP conduits often hold assetbacked securities that are acquired from various sources, including other ABCP conduits
and in the secondary market. One commenter asserted that there is no need to limit
permitted investments of fully supported conduits, because investors in ABCP issued by
fully-supported conduits base their investment decisions on the liquidity provider’s
financial strength and reputation (rather than relying on asset quality). A few
commenters requested that the ABCP option be modified to permit originator-sellers to
convey to intermediate SPVs, in addition to assets originated by them, assets acquired in
business combinations and asset purchases.
Another commenter asserted that the proposed limitation on eligible collateral
would not permit conduits to acquire assets through an assignment from another ABCP
conduit. One commenter requested that the final rules permit transfers between conduits

126

See 17 CFR 270.2a7.

153

with a common liquidity provider and transfers of positions between one funding
agent/liquidity provider/conduit group and another such group.
Several commenters expressed concern regarding the proposed definition of 100
percent liquidity coverage, noting that a significant percentage of existing conduits are
partially-supported or do not have 100 percent liquidity coverage as defined by the
proposal. Most of these commenters suggested that the definition of 100 percent liquidity
coverage be revised to include coverage in a structure under which the liquidity
provider’s funding obligation is reduced by non-performing or defaulted assets, if the
conduit includes some form of credit enhancement equal to at least 5 percent of the
outstanding ABCP. One commenter requested that the agencies align the 100 percent
liquidity coverage requirement with the regulatory capital treatment applicable to
unfunded credit enhancements under the Basel regulatory capital framework for banking
organizations, which generally calculates a banking organization’s exposure to an eligible
ABCP liquidity facility based on the maximum potential amount that the banking
organization could be required to fund given the ABCP program’s current underlying
assets (calculated without regard to the current credit quality of those assets).
Several commenters interpreted the reproposal’s requirement that an eligible
ABCP conduit obtain from a regulated liquidity provider a legally binding commitment
to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage to all the ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit as
limiting an ABCP conduit to one regulated liquidity provider. Commenters opposed the
requirement in the definition of “eligible ABCP conduit” that requires liquidity support
from a single liquidity provider. One of these commenters suggested that, although most
fully-supported multi-seller conduits currently have 100 percent liquidity support from an

154

affiliate of the conduit manager, the final rule permit conduits to have multiple liquidity
providers.
Other commenters stated that syndication of backstop liquidity is market practice,
and that there is no reason to limit the number of liquidity providers. One commenter
recommended that the agencies revise the definition of “eligible ABCP conduit” to
clarify that eligible liquidity facilities may include facilities entered into by an affiliate of
a regulated liquidity provider, if the regulated liquidity provider unconditionally
guarantees its affiliate’s obligations.
Commenters generally supported the proposed definition of majority-owned OS
affiliate. One commenter observed that the rule text in the reproposal only referred to the
originator-seller as the risk retainer, but does not mention its majority-controlled
affiliates. This commenter requested that the final rules conform to the preamble of the
original proposal by stating that majority-controlled originator-seller affiliates (including
an SPV) can satisfy the originator-seller’s risk retention requirements.
The agencies received several comments on the proposed definition of
intermediate SPV. One commenter stated that in certain circumstances an intermediate
SPV is not a direct or indirect wholly owned affiliate of the originator-seller but instead is
an “orphan” SPV that is owned by a corporate service provider or a charitable trust.
One commenter stated that it was not clear under the reproposal whether an
ABCP conduit sponsor would no longer be able to rely on the option if a single asset held
by its conduit does not comply with the rule. This commenter requested that the rule
prescribe cure periods (of not less than 30 days) and threshold amounts (1 percent of the

155

conduit’s assets), so that the conduit will not be forced to unwind based on a single
noncompliant asset.
Commenters raised several concerns with respect to the reproposal’s disclosure
requirements for the ABCP option. One commenter indicated that the asset disclosures in
ABCP programs are collectively negotiated and agreed-upon by ABCP investors and
conduit arrangers, and the reproposal’s calculation and reporting requirements would
deter borrowers from financing assets through ABCP conduits.
One commenter indicated that the scope of the proposed disclosure requirements
set forth in section 4(c) of the reproposal is unclear, and the proposed requirement to
disclose fair value calculations and supporting information would not be feasible. This
commenter said that because the conduits typically treat their extensions of credit as
loans for accounting purposes, and do not periodically revalue the assets, a requirement
to disclose fair value would not conform to existing accounting practices. This
commenter stated that many ABCP financings are revolving transactions in which the
principal balance of the outstanding notes may change every business day. This
commenter also asserted that, because investors in fully supported conduits do not rely on
the market value of the assets in their investment decisions, there would be no need to
require fully supported conduits to provide asset-level disclosures. The commenter also
asserted that to the extent a conduit finances assets for many different originator-sellers,
the volume and frequency of disclosures under this requirement would be substantial and
unreasonable. This commenter expressed the view that the agencies should not impose
unnecessarily broad disclosure requirements that would result in a narrowing of the shortterm financing options available to businesses. Another commenter said that the

156

requirement to report the fair value of each of the conduit’s interests is unduly
burdensome to a sponsor, given the dynamic nature of a conduit’s assets. This
commenter proposed that a sponsor be required to report only certain items.
Some commenters stated that investors in ABCP fully supported by liquidity
facilities do not want or need disclosure from conduit managers of an originator-seller’s
failure to comply with risk retention requirements. One of these commenters stated that
the disclosure requirement would discourage originators from financing assets through
ABCP conduits. This commenter stated that since the reproposal did not generally
require sponsors of an ABS interests to notify investors of the failure to comply with risk
retention requirements, and it was not clear why this obligation was imposed solely for
fully-supported ABCP conduits.
One commenter asserted that a sponsor should not be required to develop separate
policies or procedures to actively monitor each originator-seller; instead a sponsor should
be allowed to rely on an originator-seller’s representations and warranties in satisfying its
compliance and monitoring requirements. This commenter also proposed that a sponsor
be required to notify only regulators upon the actual discovery or knowledge of an
originator-seller’s failure to comply.
One commenter asserted that investors have generally not requested any
significant changes to ABCP disclosure requirements in recent years, and that reports
currently being made contain sufficient information for ABCP investors to monitor their
investments, especially since the most important economic factors will continue to be the
performance of the assets themselves, the 100 percent liquidity coverage, and (in the case

157

of partially supported ABCP conduits) the sponsor’s 5 percent or more credit
enhancement – but not continued risk retention on the part of the originator-sellers.
Some commenters requested a complete exemption from the credit risk retention
requirements for conduits with underlying assets that were originated before the
applicable effective date of the rule that may be securitized through an ABCP conduit.
One commenter claimed that it would be impractical to impose credit risk retention on an
originator-seller that has already entered into a financing transaction with a conduit,
because the conduits would not be able to timely renegotiate terms.
b. Overview of the Final Rule
The final rule includes a specific option for ABCP securitization transactions that
retains the basic structure of the reproposed ABCP option, with modifications intended to
address issues raised by commenters. As with the reproposal, the final rule provides that
an eligible ABCP conduit sponsor will satisfy the base risk retention requirement if, for
each ABS interest the ABCP conduit acquires from an intermediate SPV, the
intermediate SPV’s originator-seller 127 retains an economic interest in the credit risk of
the assets collateralizing the ABS interest acquired by the eligible ABCP conduit using
either standard risk retention or the revolving pool securitization risk retention option (as
revised in the final rule). 128 As noted in the reproposal, the use of the ABCP option by

127

See infra footnote 130.

128

An originator-seller will be subject to the same requirements and have the same
benefits under the risk retention rule as any other sponsor that retains risk, including
restrictions on transferring or hedging the retained interest to a third party as applied to
sponsors. See section 5(b)(1) of the final rule (intermediate SPV’s originator-seller to
retain an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets in the amount and
manner required under section 4 or 5 of the rule). For example, an originator-seller
158

the sponsor of an eligible ABCP conduit does not relieve the originator-seller from its
independent obligation to comply with its own risk retention obligations as a sponsor of
an ABS interest under the revised proposal, if any. The originator-seller will be the
sponsor of the asset-backed securities issued by an intermediate SPV and will therefore
be required under the final rule to hold an economic interest in the credit risk of the assets
collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued by the intermediate SPV.
Under the final rule, a sponsor of an ABCP conduit is not limited to using the
ABCP option to satisfy its risk retention requirements. An ABCP conduit sponsor may
rely on any of the risk retention options described in section 4 of the rule, provided it
meets the criteria for such option. Consistent with the reproposal, standby letters of
credit, guarantees, repurchase agreements, asset purchase agreements, and other
unfunded forms of credit enhancement cannot be used to satisfy the risk retention
requirement.
In response to comments questioning the application of the rule’s requirements to
an ABCP conduit arranger or manager, the agencies are affirming their view that an
arranger or manager of an ABCP conduit is a sponsor or “securitizer” under section 15G
of the Exchange Act. The agencies believe this is consistent with part (B) of the
definition of securitizer which includes “a person who organizes and initiates an asset-

retaining risk in its intermediate SPV in the same amount and manner required under
section 4 of the rule, as an eligible horizontal residual interest, would be permitted to
transfer that interest to a majority-owned affiliate as permitted under section 3 of the rule,
subject to the additional restrictions of section 12 of the rule, but an originator-seller
retaining risk in its intermediate SPV in the same amount and manner permitted under
section 5 of the rule, as a revolving pool securitization seller’s interest, could only
transfer it to a wholly-owned affiliate, as required by section 5(e)(1) of the rule. See infra
note 130 for a discussion of the definition of the term “originator-seller.”

159

backed securities transaction by selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly,
including through an affiliate, to the issuer.” 129 The arranger or manager of an ABCP
conduit typically organizes and initiates the transaction as it selects and approves the
originators whose loans or receivables will collateralize the ABS interests that support the
ABCP issued by the conduit. It also indirectly transfers the securitized assets to the
ABCP issuing entity by selecting and directing the ABCP issuing entity to purchase ABS
interests collateralized by the securitized assets. The agencies believe that reading the
definition of securitizer to include a typical arranger or manager of an ABCP conduit is
consistent with the purposes of the statute and principles of statutory interpretation.
Furthermore, the agencies believe that the narrow reading of “securitizer” supported by
commenters is not consistent with Section 15G and could lead to results that would
appear contrary to Congressional intent by opening the statute to easy evasion.
A more detailed discussion of the agencies’ interpretation of the term
“securitizer,” including analysis of the statutory text and legislative history can be found
in Part III.B.7 of this Supplementary Information.
The agencies have revised the definition of “eligible ABCP conduit” in the final
rule to accommodate certain business combinations and to clarify the requirements for
the types of assets that can be acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit. Other elements of
the definition, such as the requirement that an ABCP conduit must be bankruptcy remote
or otherwise isolated for insolvency purposes from the sponsor of the ABCP conduit and
from any intermediate SPV, and that an eligible liquidity provider enter into a legally

129

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(a)(3)(B).

160

binding commitment to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage to all the ABCP issued by
the ABCP conduit remain unchanged from the reproposal.
The final rule definition of eligible ABCP conduit requires that the ABS interests
acquired by the ABCP conduit are: (i) ABS interests collateralized solely by assets
originated by an originator-seller and by servicing assets; (ii) special units of beneficial
interest (or similar ABS interests) in a trust or special purpose vehicle that retains legal
title to leased property underlying leases originated by an originator-seller that were
transferred to an intermediate SPV in connection with a securitization collateralized
solely by such leases and by servicing assets; (iii) ABS interests in a revolving pool
securitization collateralized solely by assets originated by an originator-seller and by
servicing assets; or (iv) ABS interests that are collateralized, in whole or in part, by assets
acquired by an originator-seller in a business combination that qualifies for business
combination accounting under GAAP, and, if collateralized in part, the remainder of such
assets meet the criteria in items (i) through (iii). The ABS interests must be acquired by
the ABCP conduit in an initial issuance by or on behalf of an intermediate SPV: (1)
directly from the intermediate SPV, (2) from an underwriter of the ABS interests issued
by the intermediate SPV, or (3) from another person who acquired the ABS interests
directly from the intermediate SPV. Finally, the rule requires that an eligible ABCP
conduit is collateralized solely by ABS interests acquired from intermediate SPVs and
servicing assets.
The agencies continue to believe that a limitation on the types of assets that may
be acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit is appropriate. Although some commenters
suggested eligible ABCP conduits should be permitted to purchase assets directly from

161

originator-sellers under arrangements such as deferred purchase price notes, which
commenters argued impose continuing risk of loss on originator-sellers that would be
comparable to risk retention, the agencies are not incorporating this approach. The
agencies believe such an approach would add complexity to the rule, and that requiring
originator-sellers to retain risk in the same way as the rule requires for other securitizers
provides investors and regulators with better clarity and transparency as to the nature of
the originator-seller’s retention of risk in the transaction.
The agencies disagree with commenter assertions that, in the context of ABCP
conduits, loans or receivables originated before the applicable effective date of the rule
should not be subject to risk retention. Section 15G of the Exchange Act applies to any
issuance of asset-backed securities after the effective date of the rules, regardless of the
date the assets in the securitization were originated. The agencies note, however, that
loans or receivables meeting the seasoned loan exemption in section 19 of the rule would
not be subject to risk retention requirements, and an originator-seller that sponsors a
securitization of seasoned loans would not need to retain risk with respect to a
securitization of such assets under the ABCP option.
With respect to ABS interests, the agencies believe that in certain circumstances
described by commenters, acquisition of ABS interests from sources other than an
intermediate SPV or originator-seller may be accomplished in a manner consistent with
the purposes of section 15G of the Exchange Act. The overview of the final rule
discusses two revisions to collateral criteria for eligible ABCP conduits: one that would
permit limited transfers between certain ABCP conduits, and another that would permit
securitization of assets acquired as the result of certain business combinations.

162

The agencies are adopting as reproposed the requirements that an ABCP conduit
sponsor (i) approve each originator-seller permitted to sell or transfer assets, directly or
indirectly, to an intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit acquires ABS
interests; (ii) approve each intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit is
permitted to acquire ABS interests; (iii) establish criteria governing the ABS interests,
and the assets underlying the ABS interests, acquired by the ABCP conduit; (iv)
administer the ABCP conduit by monitoring the ABS interests acquired by the ABCP
conduit and the assets supporting those ABS interests, arranging for debt placement,
compiling monthly reports, and ensuring compliance with the ABCP conduit documents
and with the ABCP conduit’s credit and investment policy; and (v) maintain and adhere
to policies and procedures for ensuring that the requirements described above have been
met.
The final rule retains the concept that a majority-owned affiliate of an originatorseller may contribute assets it originates to the originator-seller’s intermediate SPV. To
simplify the rule text for most purposes, the final rule consolidates the reproposal’s
definition of “majority-owned OS affiliate” into the definition of originator-seller
itself. 130 In response to comments, the agencies seek to clarify that the originator-seller is
the sponsor of a securitization transaction in which an intermediate SPV of suchoriginator-seller issues ABS interests that are acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit, and
that the originator-seller may allocate risk retention to its majority owned-affiliates (or

130

In order to provide clarity in maintaining the distinction between originator-sellers
and majority-owned originator-seller affiliates, the agencies have included a provision in
the definition of “originator-seller” indicating that the majority-owned originator-seller
affiliate may not be a sponsor of the originator-seller’s intermediate SPV.

163

wholly-owned affiliates) as permitted in accordance with the sections 3, 4, and 5 of the
rule, as applicable. The sponsor of an ABCP conduit must fulfill the compliance
requirements of the ABCP option with respect to the originator-seller that is the sponsor
of the intermediate SPV.
The agencies have carefully considered commenters’ recommendations regarding
the definition of 100 percent liquidity coverage and are adopting the rule as proposed.
The agencies understand the concern raised by commenters that a significant number of
existing partially-supported conduits will likely not be able to use the ABCP option to
satisfy the risk retention requirement, because they are covered by a liquidity facility that
adjusts the funding obligation of the liquidity provider according to the performance of
the assets collateralizing the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit. 131 However, the
agencies observe that a liquidity facility of the type described by commenters, that
reduces the obligation of the liquidity provider to provide funding based on a formula that
takes into consideration the amount of non-performing assets could serve to insulate the
liquidity provider from the credit risk of non-performing assets in the securitization
transaction. The ABCP option is designed to accommodate conduits that expose the
liquidity provider to the full credit risk of the assets in the securitization, with the
expectation that exposure to the credit risk of such assets will provide the liquidity
providers with incentive to undertake robust credit underwriting and monitoring.

131

In response to commenters on the reproposal, the agencies acknowledge that liquidity
coverage that does not require the regulated liquidity provider to pay in the event of a
bankruptcy of the ABCP conduit would meet the requirements of the ABCP option
adopted in the final rule.

164

The final rule adopts as proposed the requirement that a regulated liquidity
provider enter into a legally binding commitment to provide 100 percent liquidity
coverage (in the form of a lending facility, an asset purchase agreement, a repurchase
agreement, or other similar arrangement) to all the ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit by
lending to, purchasing ABCP issued by, or purchasing assets from, the ABCP conduit in
the event that funds are required to repay maturing ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit.
While the final rule continues to require that there be only one registered liquidity
provider with responsibility to make payment in respect of the commercial paper notes,
the regulated liquidity provider is not prohibited from hedging its liquidity obligation or
from backstopping the obligation by entering into sub-participations or other
arrangements in respect of this commitment, so long as one regulated liquidity provider
remains directly responsible to all holders of ABCP issued by the conduit. To the extent
that the regulated liquidity provider that provides liquidity support to the ABCP conduit
is exposed to the credit risk of the assets covered by such liquidity support, the agencies
believe the incentives that encourage robust underwriting remain appropriately aligned.
The agencies continue to believe that unfunded risk retention is not consistent
with the regulatory goal of meaningful risk retention. As such, the requirement in the
ABCP credit risk retention option for 100 percent non-asset tested liquidity is not a
substitute for risk retention by the ABCP sponsor, but rather a recognition of an integral
part of the overall ABCP conduit securitization structure. As the liquidity support is not
an ABS interest retained to satisfy a risk retention requirement under the rule, the
liquidity provider is not subject to the prohibitions on transfer and hedging in section 12
of the rule with respect to the liquidity support.

165

The agencies were persuaded by commenters views regarding the likelihood that
many conduits will need to issue ABCP with a longer maturity in the future in order to
accommodate the needs of regulated institutions that are subject to new liquidity
requirements under the Basel liquidity standards. Accordingly, the final rule extends the
nine month maximum maturity and defines ABCP as asset-backed commercial paper that
has a maturity at the time of issuance not exceeding 397 days, exclusive of grace periods,
or any renewal thereof the maturity of which is likewise limited.
The agencies did not receive any comments regarding the reproposal’s definition
of ABCP conduit. Accordingly, as with the reproposal, the final rule defines an ABCP
conduit as an issuing entity with respect to ABCP.
In response to comments, the final rule permits eligible ABCP conduits to acquire
ABS interests from other eligible ABCP conduits with the same regulated liquidity
provider. Under the final rule, an eligible ABCP conduit may acquire an ABS interest
from another eligible ABCP conduit if: (i) the sponsors of both eligible ABCP conduits
are in compliance with section 6 of the rule; and (ii) the same regulated liquidity provider
has entered into one or more legally binding commitments to provide 100 percent
liquidity coverage to all of the ABCP issued by both eligible ABCP conduits.
However, because the agencies continue to be concerned about asset aggregators
that acquire loans and receivables from multiple sources in the market, place them in an
intermediate SPV, and issue interests to ABCP conduits the agencies have declined to
extend the ABCP option to ABCP conduits that purchase ABS interests other than in an
initial issuance by or on behalf of an originator-seller’s intermediate SPV.

166

In order to accommodate certain market practices, as referred to in the comments
to the reproposal, the agencies are revising the definition of “intermediate SPV” in the
final rule. The final rule revises this provision to include a special purpose vehicle, often
referred to as an “orphan SPV,” that has nominal equity owned by a trust or corporate
service provider that specializes in providing independent ownership of special purpose
vehicles, and such trust or corporate service provider is not affiliated with any other
transaction parties. For purposes of the final rule, “owned by a trust” includes “held by a
trustee in trust” and “issued to a trustee.” In addition, the corporate service provider will
not be affiliated solely because it provides professional directors or administrative
services to the orphan SPV or the trust. Finally, the nominal equity in the orphan SPV
will not be entitled to a share of the profits and losses or any other economic indicia of
ownership.
Consistent with the reproposal, the final rule allows an intermediate SPV to sell
ABS interests that it issues to third parties other than ABCP conduits. However, the
agencies emphasize that, except as otherwise provided for loans or receivables acquired
as part of certain business combinations, the ABS interests acquired by the conduit
cannot not be collateralized by securitized assets otherwise purchased or acquired by the
intermediate SPV’s originator-seller, the originator-seller’s majority-owned affiliates, or
by the intermediate SPV from unaffiliated originators or sellers. Commenters requested
the addition of a cure period, expressing concern as to whether a conduit would be
considered to be in violation of the rule any time one of its originator-sellers failed to
comply, and the agencies have addressed this issue. The final rule includes the
reproposal’s provisions obligating the sponsor to monitor originator-sellers’ compliance,

167

notify investors of any failure of compliance by an originator-seller, and take appropriate
steps to cure the breach. A sponsor of an eligible ABCP conduit that notifies investors
and takes appropriate steps in accordance with the terms of the rule will be in compliance
with its obligations under the rule, and, accordingly, no “cure period” is necessary.
Although commenters objected to the requirement to identify originator-sellers by name
in these circumstances, the agencies believe it is an important part of incentivizing the
originator-seller and ABCP conduit sponsor to comply with the requirements of the
ABCP option.
The final rule requires an ABCP conduit sponsor to provide, or cause to be
provided, certain disclosures to ABCP investors. In response to commenters’ concerns,
the disclosure requirement requires that the information about the underlying ABS
interests be updated at least monthly, rather than updated in connection with each
issuance of ABCP. The final rule requires that disclosures be provided before or
contemporaneously with the first sale of ABCP to the investor and must be provided on
at least a monthly basis to all conduit investors. In order to implement this requirement,
the agencies have required that the disclosures to investors must be based on information
as of a date not more than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors in order to
accommodate variations in reporting timelines and incorporation of information received
from originator-sellers.
The agencies are persuaded by commenters who expressed concern that the
reproposal’s disclosure requirements for the details of each originator-seller’s risk
retention interest, together with the same information as the originator-seller would be
required to provide direct investors pursuant to the rule, provides more information than

168

necessary. Accordingly, the final rule revises this disclosure to simplify it significantly.
The disclosure must contain the following information as of a date not more than 60 days
prior to the date of first use with investors:
(i) The name and form of organization of the regulated liquidity provider that
provides liquidity coverage to the eligible ABCP conduit, including a description of the
material terms of such liquidity coverage, and notice of any failure to fund;
(ii) The asset class or brief description of the underlying securitized assets;
(iii) The standard industrial category code (SIC Code) for the originator-seller that
will retain (or has retained) pursuant to this section an interest in the securitization
transaction; and
(iv) A description of the percentage amount of risk retention by the originatorseller, and whether it is in the form of an eligible horizontal residual interest, vertical
interest, or revolving pool securitization seller’s interest, as applicable, pursuant to the
rule.
The final rule also requires that an ABCP sponsor provide, or cause to be
provided, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if
any, in writing, all of the information required to be provided to investors, and the name
and form of organization of each originator-seller that will retain (or has retained) a rulecompliant interest in the securitization transaction. As investors in ABCP initially will
have significantly less information about the risk retention held by the originator-sellers
that sponsor ABS interests collateralizing the ABCP than investors in other forms of ABS
interests, the requirement that sponsors disclose a breach by an originator-seller will

169

provide them with relevant information about the originator-seller upon the occurrence of
a breach.
5. Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities
a. Overview of the Reproposal and Public Comments
Section 15G(c)(1)(E) of the Exchange Act 132 provides that, with respect to
CMBS, the regulations prescribed by the agencies may provide for retention of the firstloss position by a third-party purchaser that specifically negotiates for the purchase of
such first-loss position, holds adequate financial resources to back losses, provides due
diligence on all individual assets in the pool before the issuance of the asset-backed
securities, and meets the same standards for risk retention as the Federal banking
agencies and the Commission require of the securitizer. In light of this provision and the
historical market practice of third-party purchasers acquiring first-loss positions in CMBS
transactions, the agencies proposed to permit a sponsor of ABS interests that is
collateralized by commercial real estate loans to meet its risk retention requirements if
third-party purchasers acquired eligible horizontal residual interests in the issuing
entity. 133 The reproposal would have permitted one or two third-party purchasers to
satisfy the risk retention requirement, so long as their eligible horizontal residual interests
were pari passu with each other, so that neither third-party purchaser’s losses were
subordinate to the other’s losses. The eligible horizontal residual interest held by the

132

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(1)(E).

133

Such third-party purchasers are commonly referred to in the CMBS market as “Bpiece buyers” and the eligible horizontal residual interest is commonly referred to as the
“B-piece.”

170

third-party purchasers would have been permitted to be used to satisfy the risk retention
requirements either by itself as the sole credit risk retained, or in combination with a
vertical interest held by the sponsor.
The CMBS risk retention option in the reproposal would have been available only
for securitization transactions collateralized solely by commercial real estate loans and
servicing assets. In addition, the following eight requirements would have been required
to be met:
(1) Each third-party purchaser retains an eligible horizontal residual interest in the
securitization in the same form, amount, and manner as would have been required of the
sponsor under the horizontal risk retention option;
(2) Each third-party purchaser pays for the first-loss subordinated interest in cash
at the closing of the securitization;
(3) No third-party purchaser obtains financing, directly or indirectly, from any
other person party to the securitization transaction (including, but not limited to, the
sponsor, depositor, or an unaffiliated servicer), other than a person that is a party solely
by reason of being an investor;
(4) Each third-party purchaser performs a review of the credit risk of each asset in
the pool prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities;
(5) Except for an affiliation with the special servicer in the securitization
transaction or an originator of less than 10 percent of the unpaid principal balance of the
securitized assets, no third-party purchaser can be affiliated with any other party to the
securitization transaction (other than investors);

171

(6) The transaction documents provide for the appointment of an operating
advisor (Operating Advisor), subject to certain terms and conditions;
(7) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential purchasers certain
information concerning the third-party purchasers and other information concerning the
transaction; and
(8) Any third-party purchaser acquiring an eligible horizontal residual interest
under the CMBS option complies with the hedging, transfer and other restrictions
applicable to such interest under the reproposed rule as if such third-party purchaser was
a sponsor who had acquired the interest under the horizontal risk retention option.
Generally, commenters supported the CMBS risk retention option described in the
reproposal. One commenter cautioned against further modifications to the proposed
CMBS option, expressing its view that CMBS underwriting standards were beginning to
deteriorate.
Another commenter, however, pointed out that risk retention is better
implemented where the sponsor retains some “skin in the game.” This commenter
suggested that the rule require the sharing of risk retention between the sponsor and the
third-party purchasers. This commenter suggested that third-party purchasers not be
allowed to hold more than 2.5 percent of the risk retention requirements, and that they be
required to hold the first-loss position for more than 5 years before being allowed to
transfer the position even to another qualified third-party purchaser (barring an earlier
sunset). Another commenter requested clarification as to whether multiple sponsors can
divide a vertical interest among themselves, on a pro rata basis, based on their
contribution to the transaction, with no minimum retention for any one sponsor. Another

172

commenter requested clarification as to whether a sponsor holding an eligible vertical
interest in a CMBS transaction would need to retain a portion of the eligible horizontal
residual interest as part of that vertical interest, expressing the preference of its CMBS
sponsor members that the eligible horizontal residual interest not be included as part of
the eligible vertical interest.
After considering these comments, the agencies do not believe it is necessary to
require that the sponsor retain or share with third-party purchasers the credit risk in
CMBS transactions because third-party purchasers, under the framework of the final rule,
must hold the risk and independently review each securitized asset. The agencies observe
that under the final rule, the sponsor remains responsible for compliance with the CMBS
option and risk retention and must monitor a third-party purchaser’s compliance with the
CMBS option. 134 The agencies also do not believe it is necessary to limit the amount of
risk retention held by the third-party purchaser in an L-shaped structure. This approach
provides parties to CMBS transactions with flexibility to choose how to structure their
retention of credit risk in a manner compatible with the practices of the CMBS market.
Further, consistent with the reproposal, the agencies continue to believe that the interests of
the third-party purchaser and other investors are aligned through other provisions of the
proposed CMBS option, such as the Operating Advisor provisions and the sponsor’s
disclosure requirements discussed below. The agencies also do not believe it is necessary

to extend the five-year holding period after which the third-party purchaser may transfer
the eligible horizontal residual interest to another third-party purchaser. As stated in the

134

See section 7(c) of the final rule.

173

reproposal, the agencies selected five years as a holding period that was sufficiently long
to enable underwriting defects to manifest themselves. The agencies did not receive
sufficient data or information demonstrating that a longer holding period was warranted.
Additionally, the agencies have determined that it would unduly dilute the credit
risk being retained in the CMBS transaction if multiple sponsors were allowed to divide
the vertical interest. Consistent with the standard risk retention option generally where
multiple sponsors are not permitted to divide the requisite 5 percent credit retention
among themselves, in a CMBS transaction with multiple sponsors, if any portion of the
required 5 percent retention is to be held by a sponsor (i.e., if any portion of the eligible
horizontal residual interest is not sold to a qualified third-party purchaser or an eligible
vertical interest is being used to meet the 5 percent retention requirement), that portion of
the 5 percent required retention must be held by a single sponsor (and its majority-owned
affiliates).
As the agencies stated in the reproposal, the eligible horizontal residual interest
held by the third-party purchasers can be used to satisfy the risk retention requirements in
combination with a vertical interest held by a sponsor. Consistent with this approach,
where the eligible horizontal residual interest is held by a third-party purchaser, and the
sponsor holds a vertical interest, the sponsor must, as part of that vertical interest, also
retain a portion of the eligible horizontal residual interest, as the vertical interest must

174

constitute 5 percent of the cash flows of each tranche, including the eligible horizontal
residual interest. 135
The agencies also received many comments with respect to the more specific
aspects of the CMBS option in the reproposal. These comments and the final rule for
these aspects of the CMBS option are discussed below.
b. Third-Party Purchasers
i. Number of Third-Party Purchasers and Retention of Eligible Horizontal
Residual Interest
While commenters generally supported allowing up to two third-party purchasers
to hold risk retention, one commenter recommended expanding the number of third-party
purchasers to allow participation by more than two B-piece investors.
Several commenters recommended allowing the third-party purchasers to hold the
interests in a senior-subordinated structure, rather than pari passu, provided that the
holder of the subordinated interest retains at least half of the requisite eligible horizontal
residual interest, and that both third-party purchasers independently satisfy all of the
requirements and obligations imposed on third-party purchasers. These commenters
suggested that a senior-subordinated structure would better allow the market to
appropriately and efficiently price the interests in a manner that is commensurate with the
risk of loss of each interest, and to address the different risk tolerance levels of each
third-party purchaser. One of these commenters asserted that the pari passu requirement

135

If there is no third-party purchaser and the sponsor holds all of the required retention
in the form of a vertical interest, the sponsor must hold 5 percent of each tranche
including the most subordinated tranche in the structure.

175

would reduce the capacity of third-party purchasers to invest in the eligible horizontal
residual interest. However, two commenters strongly opposed allowing third-party
purchasers to satisfy the risk retention requirements through a senior-subordinated
structure, commenting that such a change would significantly dilute and render
ineffective the risk retention requirements.
As stated in the reproposal, the agencies provided additional flexibility for the
CMBS option by allowing up to two third-party purchasers to satisfy the risk retention
requirement. The agencies do not believe it would be appropriate to allow more than two
third-party purchasers in a single transaction, because it could dilute the incentives
generated by the risk retention requirement to monitor the credit quality of the
commercial mortgages in the pool. Similarly, the agencies agree that allowing the thirdparty purchasers to satisfy the risk retention requirement through a senior-subordinated
structure would significantly dilute the effectiveness of the risk retention requirements.
Accordingly, the agencies therefore are adopting as proposed the pari passu requirement
with respect to the retained interests held by third-party purchasers in a CMBS
transaction.
ii. Third-Party Purchaser Qualifying Criteria
The agencies did not propose any qualifying criteria for third-party purchasers in
the original proposal or the reproposal.
In response, one commenter requested that third-party purchasers be “qualified”
based on predetermined criteria of experience, financial analysis capability, capability to
direct the special servicer, and capability to sustain losses. Another commenter requested
that if a third-party purchaser’s affiliate contributes more than 10 percent of the

176

securitized assets to a CMBS transaction, that third-party purchaser should be precluded
from holding the eligible horizontal residual interest.
Another commenter stated its belief that it is common for several funds within a
fund complex that are managed by the same or affiliated investment adviser to purchase
eligible horizontal residual interests in the same CMBS transaction and, to be consistent
with practice, the definition of third-party purchaser should be expanded to include
multiple funds that are managed by the same or affiliated investment advisers.
Consistent with the reproposal, the agencies are not adopting specific qualifying
criteria for third-party purchasers. The agencies believe that investors in the business of
purchasing first-loss positions or “B-piece” interests in CMBS transactions have the
requisite experience and capabilities to make an informed decision regarding their
purchases. B-piece interests are not offered or sold through registered offerings –
typically a B-piece interest will be sold in reliance on Securities Act Rule 144A, which
requires purchasers to be qualified institutional buyers. The agencies observed that Bpiece CMBS investors are typically real estate specialists who use their knowledge about
the underlying assets and mortgages in the pools to conduct extensive due diligence on
new deals. The agencies also observed that the B-piece market has very few participants.
According to Commercial Mortgage Alert data, in 2009-2013, there were 38 different Bpiece buyers with nine of them participating in 70 percent of CMBS deals. Furthermore,
as discussed below, the agencies believe that the reproposed rule’s disclosure
requirements with respect to the identity and CMBS investment experience of third-party
purchasers are sufficient to allow investors in a CMBS transaction to assess the
investment experience and other qualifications of third-party purchasers and other

177

material information necessary to make an informed investment decision. If, in the
future, the agencies observe adverse changes in the experience and capabilities of thirdparty purchasers in CMBS transactions, the agencies may consider whether modifications
to the rule should be made to address these issues.
Also consistent with the reproposal, the final rule retains the requirement that
third-party purchasers be independent from originators of more than 10 percent of the
securitized assets. The agencies believe that the independence requirement will help
ensure a new review by the third-party purchaser of the underwriting of the securitized
loans and do not believe that the requirement will adversely affect the number of thirdparty purchasers willing to assume the risk retention obligations in CMBS transactions.
Last, the agencies are not expanding the definition of third-party purchaser to include
multiple funds that are managed by the same or affiliated investment adviser. The
agencies introduced the concept of a “majority-owned affiliate” in the reproposal, which
would permit risk retention to be retained by a third-party purchaser or its majorityowned affiliate. The final rule retains the reproposal’s provisions allowing sponsors and
third-party purchasers to transfer retained risk to their majority-owned affiliates. The
final rule does not allow sponsors or third-party purchasers to transfer retained risk to
parties other than majority-owned affiliates, as the agencies believe the rule being
adopted today already includes flexibility with respect to risk retention held by an entity
that is a majority-owned affiliate of a third-party purchaser, and that further expansion of
the definition of third-party purchaser is not necessary and would dilute the risk required
to be retained by a sponsor or third-party purchaser.

178

c. Operating Advisor
i. Applicability of the Operating Advisor Requirement
The reproposal included a requirement that all CMBS transactions that use the
third-party purchaser option to satisfy the risk retention requirement must appoint an
Operating Advisor that is not affiliated with other parties to the securitization transaction.
The reproposal would have prohibited the Operating Advisor from having, directly or
indirectly, any financial interest in the securitization transaction, other than fees from its
role as Operating Advisor, and would have required the Operating Advisor to act in the
best interest of, and for the benefit of, investors as a collective whole.
Multiple commenters expressed support for the Operating Advisor requirement,
noting that it was a helpful governance mechanism and reflective of current market
practice. One of these commenters advocated expanding the Operating Advisor
requirement to all CMBS transactions, and not simply those relying on the CMBS option.
Another commenter recommended that the Operating Advisor be prohibited from having
any direct or indirect financial interest in, or financial relationship with, the special
servicer.
After considering the comments received, the agencies have decided not to
expand the Operating Advisor requirement to CMBS transactions that do not rely on the
third-party purchaser CMBS option. As stated in the reproposal, the agencies believe that
there is generally a strong connection between third-party purchasers and the special
exercise of the servicing rights in CMBS transactions. In CMBS transactions where
credit risk is being retained by a third-party purchaser, the agencies believe there is a
particular need to provide a check on third-party purchasers by limiting their ability to
179

manipulate cash flows through the exercise of the special servicing rights. The agencies
are providing this check by requiring an Operating Advisor in CMBS transaction where
the third-party purchaser is holding the risk retention. The agencies note that the
requirement that there be an Operating Advisor for any transaction relying on the CMBS
option means that the Operating Advisor must be in place at any time that a third-party
purchaser holds any portion of the required risk retention. Accordingly, whether the Bpiece is initially sold to a third-party purchaser or sold to a third-party purchaser after the
initial five year holding period expires, the transaction must have an Operating Advisor in
place at all times that a third-party purchaser holds any portion of the required risk
retention.
Consistent with the reproposal, the agencies are adopting the requirement that the
Operating Advisor be a party that is not affiliated with other parties to the securitization
transaction, and does not have, directly or indirectly, any financial interest in the
securitization transaction other than fees from its role as Operating Advisor. The
agencies continue to believe that this requirement sufficiently establishes the
independence of the Operating Advisor and protects investors’ interests.
ii. Qualifications of the Operating Advisor
The agencies included in the reproposal certain general qualifications for the
Operating Advisor. The reproposal would have required underlying transaction
documents in a CMBS transaction to provide standards with respect to the Operating
Advisor’s experience, expertise and financial strength to fulfill its duties and obligations
under the applicable transaction documents over the life of the securitization transaction.

180

One commenter cautioned against the requirement that qualification standards for
the Operating Advisor be specified in the transaction documents. This commenter
asserted that the requirements must ensure that a sufficient number of qualified and
independent Operating Advisors will be available to fill the role. Additionally, this
commenter encouraged the agencies to clarify the mechanism by which the acceptability
of the Operating Advisor may be determined.
The agencies do not believe that the rule should mandate the mechanism by which
the acceptability of the Operating Advisor is determined, but that the CMBS transaction
parties should have the flexibility to establish the appropriate standards for the Operating
Advisor in each transaction. As a result, the agencies are adopting the qualification
requirements as proposed.
iii. Role of the Operating Advisor
Under the reproposal, once the eligible horizontal residual interest held by thirdparty purchasers reaches a principal balance of 25 percent or less of its initial principal
balance, the special servicers would have been required to consult with the independent
Operating Advisor in connection with, and prior to, any major investing decisions related
to the servicing of the securitized assets. The reproposal would have required that the
Operating Advisor be provided with adequate and timely access to information and
reports necessary to fulfill its duties under the transaction documents. It also would have
required that the Operating Advisor be responsible for reviewing the actions of the
special servicer, reviewing all reports made by the special servicer to the issuing entity,
reviewing for accuracy and consistency in calculations made by the special servicer in

181

accordance with the transaction documents, and issuing a report to investors and the
issuing entity on the special servicer’s performance.
One commenter supported this requirement, but requested that the agencies
clarify the scope of the decisions on which the special servicer was to consult with the
Operating Advisor’s review, and the scope of the reports to be provided to the Operating
Advisor. Several commenters requested that the agencies clarify that the calculation of
the principal balance could take into account appraisal reductions and realized losses, in
order to be consistent with current market practice. Another commenter questioned the
usefulness of the consultation requirement, noting that there is no meaningful connection
between the 25 percent threshold and the goal of risk retention. This commenter
proposed either eliminating this requirement or limiting the consultation right to the
period from the closing of the transaction until the holder of risk retention loses control
over the special servicing rights. Another commenter believed that the 25 percent
threshold should be reduced to 10 percent.
After considering the comments received, the agencies are adopting the proposed
consultation requirement, with some modifications in response to comments. For
purposes of determining the principal balance, the agencies are clarifying in the final rule
that the calculation should be performed in a manner that is consistent with the
calculation as permitted under the transaction documents, and take into account any
realized losses and appraisal reduction amounts to the extent permitted under the terms
and conditions of the transaction documents. In terms of the scope of reports made by
the special servicer to the issuing entity that the Operating Advisor must review, the
agencies are clarifying in the final rule that the Operating Advisor shall have adequate

182

and timely access to all reports delivered to all classes of bondholders as well as the
holders of the eligible horizontal residual interest. Finally, the agencies believe that
section 7(b)(6)(iv) of the final rule sufficiently describes the types of decisions that are
subject to consultation — specifically, any material decision in connection with the
servicing of the securitized assets which includes, without limitation, any material
modification or waiver of any provision of a loan agreement, any foreclosure or similar
conversion of the ownership of a property, or any acquisition of a property.
iv. Special Servicer Removal Provisions
The reproposal would have required that the Operating Advisor have the authority
to recommend the removal and replacement of the special servicer. Under the
reproposal, the removal of the special servicer would have required the affirmative vote
of a majority of the outstanding principal balance of all ABS interests voting on the
matter, and required a quorum of 5 percent of the outstanding principal balance of all
ABS interests.
The agencies received many comments with respect to the Operating Advisor’s
ability to remove the special servicer. Commenters generally supported retaining the
Operating Advisor’s ability to recommend the replacement of the special servicer,
especially when the special servicer had not acted in the best interest of all investors.
However, commenters differed on their views of the appropriate voting quorum
requirements.
One commenter believed that the special servicer removal provisions should
mirror current CMBS transactions, which typically provide that (i) the Operating Advisor
may recommend to remove the special servicer only after the most senior tranche of the

183

B-piece has been reduced to less than 25 percent of its initial principal balance, and (ii)
removal can only take place if more than 50 percent of the aggregate outstanding
principal balance of all classes affirmatively vote for such removal.
One commenter recommended providing Operating Advisors with a safe harbor
from liability, except in the case of gross negligence, fraud or willful misconduct, for
recommending replacement of the special servicer. This commenter also recommended
requiring the maintenance of an investor registry, so that investors can be easily contacted
if the Operating Advisor makes a replacement recommendation that requires a vote.
Commenters submitted a wide range of comments on the quorum requirement for
removal of the special servicer. Two commenters asserted that the quorum requirement
would be more appropriately specified by the underlying transaction documents, rather
than in the final rule, in order to accommodate any future changes in the market. One
commenter favored a requirement that in order to reach a quorum, no fewer than three
unaffiliated investors participate in the vote. Another commenter recommended two
options: (i) increasing the quorum to 15 percent and requiring the participation of three
unaffiliated investors, or (ii) increasing the quorum to 20 percent with no minimum
unaffiliated investor-voting requirement. This commenter opposed a more substantive
increase to the quorum requirement, asserting that it would be nearly impossible for
interest holders to remove the special servicer. Both of these commenters recommended
adding a provision that specified that the third-party purchaser may not unilaterally reappoint the original special servicer or its affiliate following a removal and replacement
process.

184

One commenter highlighted a split in views among those parties who contributed
to its comments. Some favored increasing the voting quorum requirement to two-thirds
of all investors eligible to vote (before the eligible horizontal residual interest has been
reduced below 25 percent), and to one-third of all investors eligible to vote (after the
eligible horizontal residual interest has been reduced below 25 percent). Others
supported a quorum requirement of at least 20 percent, with at least three independent
investors participating in the vote.
After considering the comments received, the agencies have decided to permit
CMBS transaction parties to specify in the underlying transaction documents the quorum
required for a vote to remove the special servicer. However, the transaction documents
may not specify a quorum of more than the holders of 20 percent of the outstanding
principal balance of all ABS interests in the issuing entity, with such quorum including at
least three ABS interest holders that are not affiliated with each other. The agencies
believe that this balanced approach provides CMBS transaction parties with the
flexibility to establish the quorum required to remove the special servicer in the
applicable transaction documents, as is commonly done, while addressing commenter
concerns that a quorum requirement of more than 20 percent may make is difficult for
interest holders to remove the special servicer.
The agencies do not believe that it would be appropriate to include a safe harbor
for the Operating Advisor or a requirement that there be an investor registry requirement
in the final rule since the agencies believe the Operating Advisor’s indemnification rights
and the trustee’s investor communication provisions should be set forth in, and governed
by, the transaction documents.

185

Finally, the agencies agree with comments requesting that the third-party
purchaser should not have the unilateral ability to reappoint the original special servicer
or its affiliate. The rule requires the replacement of the special servicer following the
recommendation of the Operating Advisor and an affirmative vote of the requisite
number of ABS holders. The agencies believe that the independence of the Operating
Advisor as otherwise required by the final rule sufficiently ensures that the
recommendation of the replacement special servicer will be made independent of thirdparty purchasers, and that the voting and enhanced quorum requirements being adopted
today provide additional assurance in this regard. The quorum and voting requirements
effectively require that the third-party purchasers not have the unilateral ability to reappoint the original special servicer or its affiliate.
d. Disclosures
The reproposal would have required the sponsor to provide, or cause to be
provided, to potential purchasers and federal regulators certain information concerning
the third-party purchasers and other information concerning the CMBS transaction, such
as each third-party purchaser’s name and form of organization, experience investing in
CMBS, and any other information about the third-party purchaser deemed material to
investors in light of the particular securitization transaction.
Additionally, it would have required a sponsor to disclose to investors the amount
of the eligible horizontal residual interest that each third-party purchaser will retain (or
has retained) in the transaction (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all ABS
interests issued in the securitization transaction and the dollar amount of the fair value of
such ABS interests); the purchase price paid for such interest; the material terms of such

186

interest; the amount of the interest that the sponsor would have been required to retain if
the sponsor had retained an interest in the transaction; the material assumptions and
methodology used in determining the aggregate amount of ABS interests of the issuing
entity; the representations and warranties concerning the securitized assets; a schedule of
exceptions to these representations and warranties; and information about the factors that
were used to make the determination that such exceptions should be included in the pool
even though they did not meet the representations and warranties.
In addition, the reproposal would have required that certain material information
with respect to the Operating Advisor be disclosed in the applicable transaction
documents, including, without limitation, the name and form of organization of the
Operating Advisor, the qualification standards applicable to the Operating Advisor, how
the Operating Advisor satisfies these qualification standards, and the terms of the
Operating Advisor’s compensation.
The reproposal also would have required the sponsor to maintain and adhere to
policies and procedures to actively monitor the third-party purchaser’s compliance with
the CMBS option, and to notify investors if the sponsor learns that a third-party purchaser
no longer complies with such requirements.
The agencies received a few comments regarding the disclosure requirements
under the CMBS risk retention option. Two commenters opposed the disclosure of the
purchase price paid by third-party purchasers for the eligible horizontal residual interest.
These commenters pointed out that such information has traditionally been viewed by all
market participants as highly confidential and proprietary, and that the disclosure
requirement would deter B-piece buyers from retaining risk. One of these commenters

187

suggested that the issuer or third-party purchaser could instead provide the purchase price
to the appropriate regulatory agency on a confidential basis, or disclose only that it has
fulfilled the risk retention requirement.
The investment grade investor members of an industry association requested that
two additional disclosures be required with respect to the Operating Advisor: (1) any
material conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest of the Operating Advisor; and
(2) additional information regarding the formula for calculating the Operating Advisor’s
compensation.
The agencies are adopting the disclosure requirements for the CMBS option, with
some modifications in response to comments. As stated in the reproposal, the agencies
believe that the importance of the disclosures to investors with respect to third-party
purchasers outweighs potential issues associated with the sponsor or third-party purchaser
making such information available. The agencies believe that the disclosure
requirements with respect to the identity and experience of third-party purchasers in the
CMBS transaction that are being adopted today will alert investors in the transaction as to
the experience of third-party purchasers and other material information necessary to
make an informed investment decision. In this regard, the rule retains the requirement
that the price at which the B-piece is sold be disclosed. Disclosure of the price of the Bpiece is consistent with other fair value disclosures. The agencies believe these
disclosures are necessary to allow other investors to assess the risk being retained, and
that the ability of investors to assess the value of the retained risk outweighs the
preferences of some B-piece buyers to keep the price confidential.

188

With respect to requests that the rule require the disclosure of the method of
calculating the Operating Advisor’s compensation, the agencies believe the requirement
to disclose the terms of the Operating Advisor’s compensation already encompasses
disclosure as to how such compensation is calculated. Therefore, the agencies believe
that no change to the reproposed rule is required in this respect.
With respect to the request that the rule require disclosure of any material
conflicts of interest involving the Operating Advisor, the agencies agree that disclosure of
any material or potential material conflicts of interest of the Operating Advisor with
respect to the securitization transaction should be disclosed. Such disclosure will allow
transaction parties to better ensure that the Operating Advisor will act independently.
Accordingly, the agencies have added this disclosure requirement to the final rule.
e. Transfer of B-Piece
As discussed above, consistent with the reproposal, the rule allows a sponsor of a
CMBS transaction to meet its risk retention requirement where a third-party purchaser
acquires the B-piece, and all other criteria and conditions for this CMBS option as
described are met.
The reproposal would have permitted, as an exception to the transfer and hedging
restrictions in that reproposed rule and section 15G of the Exchange Act, the transfer of
the retained interest by any initial third-party purchaser to another third-party purchaser at
any time after five years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction,
provided that the transferee satisfies each of the conditions applicable to the initial thirdparty purchaser under the CMBS option in connection with such purchase. Conditions
that an initial third-party purchaser was required to satisfy at or prior to the closing of the

189

securitization transaction would be required to be satisfied by the transferee at or prior to
the time of the transfer to the transferee. The reproposed rule also would have permitted
transfers by any such subsequent third-party purchaser to any other purchaser satisfying
the criteria applicable to initial third-party purchasers. In addition, if the sponsor retained
the B-piece at closing, the reproposed rule would have permitted the sponsor to transfer
such interest to a purchaser satisfying the criteria applicable to subsequent third-party
purchasers after a five-year period following the closing of the securitization transaction
has expired. The reproposed rule also would have required that any transferring thirdparty purchaser provide the sponsor with complete identifying information as to the
transferee third-party purchaser.
Comments on the proposed rule included objections that the five-year holding
period was too long and that a sponsor that retained the B-piece at closing should not be
required to hold the position for five years before transfer to a qualifying third-party
purchaser. Concern was also expressed that imposing the five-year holding period, in
tandem with the limitation that there can be no more than two third parties sharing the Bpiece on a pari passu basis only, could decrease the liquidity of the B-piece and,
therefore, disrupt the CMBS market.
Many commenters stated that the five-year transfer restriction period should be
reduced, because it would significantly impair the liquidity of CMBS and render the Bpiece interests much less desirable. However, these commenters differed on their
suggested alternative approaches. One commenter recommended a tiered approach by
requiring a third-party purchaser to retain its interest for one year, allowing such thirdparty purchaser to transfer its interest to a “qualified transferee” who meets the same

190

criteria as the third-party purchaser for the following four years, and having no transfer or
hedging restrictions after that time. Another commenter asserted that there should be no
minimum holding requirement as long as the third-party purchaser transfers the interest to
a subsequent third-party purchaser meeting the same qualification requirements as the
initial third-party purchaser. Another commenter recommended reducing the transfer
restriction period to three years because performance and other pool data are readily
available from multiple sources, and investors would have the opportunity to determine
loan performance and to identify loans that are not performing as expected.
One commenter suggested reducing the 5 percent risk retention requirement if a
five-year holding period is imposed, or allowing the third-party purchaser to transfer to a
qualified transferee who meets the same criteria as the third-party purchaser, a qualified
institutional buyer under Rule 144A under the Securities Act, or an institutional
accredited investor under Rule 501 under the Securities Act. Another commenter
recommended allowing sponsors to transfer the retained interest to a qualified third-party
purchaser within 90 days after the date of closing of the transaction. One commenter also
pointed out the five-year period applicable to holders of eligible horizontal residual
interests and contained in section 7 of the reproposal is inconsistent with, and suggested
that it be harmonized with, the general transfer restriction period that is contained in
section 12 of the reproposal 136 and that it should apply to vertical risk retention in a

136

Section 12(f)(1) of the reproposal sets forth the hedging and transfer restriction period
that would be generally applicable to risk retention, which is the latest of (i) the date on
which the total unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets that collateralize the
securitization transaction has been reduced to 33 percent of the total unpaid principal
balance of the securitized assets as of the closing of the securitization transaction; (ii) the
191

CMBS transaction, and that both holding periods should be reduced to three years.
Several commenters suggested that, if a sponsor holds the B-piece, it should not be
subject to the five-year holding period or should be allowed to transfer the B-piece within
some short period after the transaction closing. One commenter requested that the final
rule state that a sponsor’s risk retention obligation be terminated with respect to a CMBS
transaction once all of the loans have been defeased.
The final rule, as it relates to the rights to transfer the B-piece, is substantially the
same as the reproposal, in which the agencies attempted to balance two overriding goals:
(1) not disrupting the existing CMBS third-party purchaser structure and (2) ensuring that
risk retention promotes good underwriting. In formulating the reproposal, the agencies
reasoned that, after a five-year period, the quality of the underwriting would be
sufficiently evident that the initial third-party purchaser or, if there was no initial thirdparty purchaser, the sponsor, would suffer the consequences of poor underwriting in the
form of a reduced sales price for such interest. The agencies also believe that the initial
holder of the B-piece, whether a third-party purchaser or the sponsor, would need to
assume that holding the B-piece for a five-year period would result in such holder bearing
the consequences of poor underwriting. Thus, by permitting transfer after the five yearperiod, the agencies do not believe that they are creating a structure which would result in
the initial holder being less demanding of the underwriting than if it was required to
retain the B-piece until expiration of the full sunset period applicable to CMBS

date on which the total unpaid principal obligations under the ABS interests issued in the
securitization transaction has been reduced to 33 percent of the total unpaid principal
obligations of the ABS interests at closing of the securitization transaction; or (iii) two
years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction.

192

securitizations. In connection with this, the agencies view the requirement (among other
conditions) that a subsequent purchaser, like the initial third-party purchaser, conduct an
independent review of the credit risk of each securitized asset to be important, as this
requirement will emphasize to the initial B-piece holder that the performance of the
securitized assets will be scrutinized by any potential purchaser, thus exposing the initial
purchaser to the full risks of poor underwriting.
The only change in the final rule from the reproposal is that it allows the risk
retention obligation to terminate once all of the loans in a CMBS transaction are fully
defeased. A loan is deemed to be defeased if cash or cash equivalents have been pledged
to the issuing entity as collateral for the loan and are in such amounts and payable at such
times as necessary to timely generate cash sufficient to make all remaining debt service
payments due on such loan and the issuing entity has an obligation to release its lien on
the loan. Once the collateral securing a loan is replaced with cash or cash equivalent
instruments in the full amount remaining due on the loan, thereby defeasing the loan, any
risk associated with poor underwriting is eliminated and there is no need to require risk
retention to continue to be held.
The standards for the agencies to provide exemptions to the risk requirements and
prohibition on hedging are outlined in section 15G. The exemption allowing for a
transfer of the B-piece by one qualified third-party purchaser to another qualified thirdparty purchaser after five years meets these requirements. The agencies decided that
unless there was a holding period that was sufficiently long enough to enable
underwriting defects to manifest themselves, the original third-party purchaser might not
be incentivized to insist on effective underwriting of the securitized assets. The agencies

193

believe that under 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)(2), a five-year retention duration helps ensure
high-quality underwriting standards for the securitizers and originators of assets that are
securitized or available for securitization by forcing sponsors or initial third-party
purchasers to bear the risk of losses related to underwriting deficiencies. Furthermore,
the agencies believe that this exemption meets the statute’s requirement that the
exemption encourage appropriate risk management practices by the securitizers and
originators of assets, improve the access of consumers and businesses to credit on
reasonable terms, or otherwise is in the public interest and for the protection of investors.
The approach of requiring the third-party purchaser to hold for at least five years
accommodates continuing participation of B-piece buyers in the market, in a way that
requires meaningful risk retention as an incentive to good risk management practices by
securitizers in selecting assets and addresses specific concerns about maintaining
consumers’ and businesses’ access to commercial mortgage credit. 137
6. Government-Sponsored Enterprises
a. Overview of the Reproposal and Public Comment
The reproposal provided in section 8 that the full guarantee (for timely payment
of principal and interest) by the Enterprises while they operate under the conservatorship
or receivership of FHFA with capital support from the United States would have satisfied
the risk retention requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act with respect to the

137

While more than one commenter suggested that a sponsor who retains the B-piece be
allowed to transfer the B-piece within the five year-period, the agencies do not agree that
the sponsor should be treated differently from a third-party purchaser in this regard. The
obligation to hold the B-piece for the five year-period is designed to, and will help,
ensure high quality underwriting regardless of whether it is held by the sponsor or a third
party.

194

mortgage-backed securities issued by the Enterprises. Similarly, an equivalent guarantee
provided by a limited-life regulated entity that succeeds to the charter of an Enterprise,
and that is operating under the authority and oversight of FHFA under section 1367(i) of
the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, would
have satisfied the risk retention requirements, provided that the entity is operating with
capital support from the United States. The reproposal also provided that the hedging
and finance provisions would not have applied to an Enterprise while operating under
conservatorship or receivership with capital support from the United States, or to a
limited-life regulated entity that succeeded to the charter of an Enterprise and is operating
under the authority and oversight of FHFA with capital support from the United States.
Under the reproposal, a sponsor (that is, an Enterprise) utilizing this option would have
been required to provide to investors, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk
Retention” and, upon request, to FHFA and the Commission, a description of the manner
in which it met the credit risk retention requirements.
As the agencies emphasized, if either an Enterprise or a successor limited-life
regulated entity began to operate other than as described, the Enterprise or successor
entity would no longer be able to avail itself of the credit risk retention option provided
by section 8 of the reproposal and would have become subject to the related requirements
and prohibitions set forth elsewhere in the reproposal. The reproposal did not alter the
approach to the risk retention requirements for the Enterprises in the original proposal.
In explaining their reasons for this approach, the agencies observed that because
the Enterprises fully guarantee the timely payment of principal and interest on the
mortgage-backed securities they issue, the Enterprises were exposed to the entire credit

195

risk of the mortgages that collateralize those securities. 138 The agencies also highlighted
that the Enterprises had been operating under the conservatorship of FHFA since
September 6, 2008, and that as conservator, FHFA had assumed all powers formerly held
by each Enterprise’s officers, directors, and shareholders and was directing its efforts as
conservator toward minimizing losses, limiting risk exposure, and ensuring that the
Enterprises priced their services to adequately address their costs and risk. Finally, the
agencies described how each Enterprise, concurrent with being placed in conservatorship,
entered into a Senior Preferred Stock Purchase Agreement (PSPA) with the United States
Department of the Treasury (Treasury) and that the PSPAs provided capital support to the
relevant Enterprise if the Enterprise’s liabilities exceeded its assets under GAAP. 139
The agencies received only a few comments on proposed section 8, and those
commenters generally supported allowing the Enterprises’ guarantee to be an acceptable

138

See Original Proposal, 76 FR at 24111-24112; Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 5795957961.
139

Under each PSPA as amended, Treasury purchased senior preferred stock of each
Enterprise. In exchange for this cash contribution, the liquidation preference of the
senior preferred stock that Treasury purchased from the Enterprise under the respective
PSPA increases in an equivalent amount. The senior preferred stock of each Enterprise
purchased by Treasury is senior to all other preferred stock, common stock or other
capital stock issued by the Enterprise.
Treasury’s commitment to each Enterprise is the greater of: (1) $200 billion; or (2) $200
billion plus the cumulative amount of the Enterprise’s net worth deficit as of the end of
any calendar quarter in 2010, 2011 and 2012, less any positive net worth as of December
31, 2012. Under amendments to each PSPA signed in August 2012, the fixed-rate
quarterly dividend that each Enterprise had been required to pay to Treasury was
replaced, beginning on January 1, 2013, with a variable dividend based on each
Enterprise’s net worth, helping to ensure the continued adequacy of the financial
commitment made under the PSPA and eliminating the need for an Enterprise to borrow
additional amounts to pay quarterly dividends to Treasury. The PSPAs also require the
Enterprises to reduce their retained mortgage portfolios over time.

196

form of risk retention in accordance with the conditions proposed. As a consequence the
agencies have decided to adopt section 8 without any change.
While the agencies understand the issues involved with the Enterprises’
participation in the mortgage market, the agencies continue to believe that it is
appropriate, from a public policy perspective, to recognize the guarantee of the
Enterprises as fulfilling their risk retention requirement under section 15G of the
Exchange Act, while in conservatorship or receivership with the capital support of the
United States. 140 The authority and oversight of the FHFA over the operations of the
Enterprises or any successor limited-life regulated entity during a conservatorship or
receivership, the full guarantee provided by these entities on the timely payment of
principal and interest on the mortgage-backed securities that they issue, and the capital
support provided by Treasury under the PSPAs 141 provide a reasonable basis consistent
with the goals and intent of section 15G for recognizing the Enterprise guarantee as
meeting the Enterprises’ risk retention requirement.
For similar reasons, the agencies believe that final rule’s restrictions and
prohibitions on hedging and transfers of retained interests should not apply to an
Enterprise or any successor limited-life regulated entity, as long as the Enterprise (or
limited-life successor entity) is operating consistent with the conditions set out in the rule.
In the past, the Enterprises have sometimes acquired pool insurance to cover a percentage

140

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57960.

141

By its terms, a PSPA with an Enterprise may not be assigned, transferred, inure to the
benefit of, any limited-life, regulated entity established with respect to the Enterprise
without the prior written consent of Treasury.

197

of losses on the mortgage loans comprising the pool. 142 FHFA also has made risksharing through a variety of alternative mechanisms a major goal of its Strategic Plan for
the Enterprise Conservatorships. 143 Because each Enterprise, while in conservatorship or
receivership and operating with capital support from the United States, will need to fully
guarantee, and hold the credit risk on, the mortgage-backed securities that it issues for the
provisions of section 8 of the rule to apply, the prohibition on hedging the credit risk that
a retaining sponsor is otherwise required to retain would have limited the ability of the
Enterprises to acquire such pool insurance in the future or take other reasonable actions to
limit losses that would otherwise arise from the Enterprises’ full exposure to the credit
risk of the securities that they issue.
If any of the conditions in the rule cease to apply, an Enterprise or any successor
organization will no longer be able to rely on its guarantee to meet the risk retention
requirement under section 15G of the Exchange Act and will need to retain risk in
accordance with one of the other applicable sections of this risk retention rule. Because
section 8 of the rule applies only so long as the relevant Enterprise operates under the
authority and control of FHFA and with capital support from the United States, the
agencies continue to believe that the rule’s approach with regard to the Enterprises’
compliance with the risk retention requirement of section 15G of the Exchange Act is

142

Typically, insurers would pay the first losses on a pool of loans, up to 1 or 2 percent
of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of the pool.

143

See, e.g., FHFA 2012 Report at 7-11; FHFA 2013 Report at 7-11.

198

consistent with the maintenance of quality underwriting standards, in the public interest,
and consistent with the protection of investors. 144
The agencies recognize ongoing activity related to reform of the Enterprises, and
expect to revisit and, if appropriate, modify this and other provisions after the future of
the Enterprises and of the statutory and regulatory framework for the Enterprises
becomes clearer. The agencies will continue to consider the impact of potential arbitrage
between various markets and market participants, and in particular between the
Enterprises and the private securitization markets, and whether adjustments should be
made to enhance investor protection and financial stability.
7. Open Market Collateralized Loan Obligations
a. Background
A CLO is an asset-backed security that is typically collateralized by portions of
tranches of senior, secured commercial loans or similar obligations of borrowers who are
of lower credit quality or that do not have a third-party evaluation of the likelihood of
timely payment of interest and repayment of principal. As discussed in the reproposal,
commenters distinguished between two general types of CLOs: open market CLOs and
balance sheet CLOs. As described by commenters, a balance sheet CLO securitizes loans
already held by a single institution or its affiliates in portfolio (including assets originated
by the institution or its affiliate) and an open market CLO securitizes assets purchased on
the secondary market, in accordance with investment guidelines.

144

See Original Proposal, 76 FR at 24112; Revised Proposal 78 FR at 57961.

199

CLOs are organized and initiated by a CLO manager usually when the CLO
manager partners with a structuring bank that assists in financing asset purchases that
occur before the legal formation of the CLO. 145 After the terms of a CLO transaction,
including investment guidelines, are agreed upon with key investors, the CLO manager
will usually have sole discretion under the governing documents to select portions of
tranches of syndicated commercial loans on the primary or secondary market to be
acquired by the CLO in compliance with the investment guidelines. An SPV (issuing
entity) is formed to issue the asset-backed securities collateralized by commercial loans
that the CLO manager has selected and directed the CLO issuing entity to purchase. The
CLO manager retains the obligation to actively manage the asset portfolio, in accordance
with the investment guidelines, and earns management fees and performance fees 146 for
management services provided.
CLOs are a type of CDO. Both are organized and initiated by an asset manager
that also actively manages the assets for a period of time after closing in compliance with
investment guidelines. Typically, both CLOs and CDOs are characterized by relatively
simple sequential pay capital structures and significant participation by key investors in
the negotiation of investment guidelines.
As discussed in the reproposal and below, the agencies believe that the risk
retention rules apply to CLOs because CLO managers clearly fall within the statutory

145

Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Report to the Congress on Risk
Retention 22 (Oct. 2010).
146

In many cases, a portion of the manager’s fees are subordinated or contingent upon
asset performance.

200

definition of “securitizer” set forth in Exchange Act section 15G. Moreover, the agencies
believe it is consistent with the purpose of section 15G of the Exchange Act and
principles of statutory interpretation to apply the risk retention rules to CLOs. There is
no indication that Congress sought to exclude any specific type of securitization structure
from the requirements of section 15G. Other than mandating specific types of
exemptions based on underwriting quality and for securitizations involving certain public
entities, 147 Congress directed the agencies to apply risk retention generally with respect to
all asset-backed securities. Subject only to specific limitations, authority to determine
other exemptions was left to the implementing agencies.
Moreover, contrary to commenters’ suggestions, as discussed below,
developments in the CLO and leveraged loan market suggest that CLOs present many of
the same incentive alignment and systemic risk concerns that the risk retention
requirements of section 15G were intended to address. CLO issuance has been increasing
in recent years. 148 Paralleling this increase has been rapid growth in the issuance of
leveraged loans, 149 which are the primary assets purchased by most CLOs. Heightened
activity in the leveraged loan market has been driven by search for yield and a
corresponding increase in risk appetite by investors. 150 The agencies note that there is
evidence that this increased activity in the leveraged loan market has coincided with

147

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e).

148

Monetary Policy Report, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, at 23
(July 2014).
149

Id. at 22; Semiannual Risk Perspective: Spring 2014, Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, at 29 (June 2014).
150

Monetary Policy Report, at 1-2, 22.

201

widespread loosening of underwriting standards. 151 In fact, a recent review of a sample
of leveraged loans by the Federal banking agencies found that forty-two percent of
leveraged loans examined were criticized by examiners. 152 The agencies believe that
increases in the origination and pooling of poorly underwritten leveraged loans could
expose the financial system to risks. 153 The Federal banking agencies have been
monitoring this market closely and have responded to concerns by issuing updated
leveraged lending supervisory guidance, which outlines principles related to safe and
sound leveraged lending activities, including expectations that banks and thrifts exercise
prudent underwriting standards when originating leveraged loans, regardless of intent to
hold or distribute them. 154 As discussed in more detail below, these developments in the
leveraged loan and CLO market represent similar dynamics to issues in the originate-todistribute model that were a major factor in the recent financial crisis and that section
15G was intended to address.
For these reasons, and others discussed below, the agencies believe it is
appropriate to apply risk retention rules to open market CLOs as well as balance sheet
CLOs.

151

Id.; Semiannual Risk Perspective: Spring 2014, at 5.

152

Shared National Credits Program: 2013 Review, Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency, at 3 (September 2013) (“A focused review of leveraged loans found material
widespread weakness in underwriting practices, including excessive leverage, inability to
amortize debt over a reasonable period, and lack of meaningful financial covenants.”).
153

See, e.g., Semiannual Risk Perspective: Spring 2014, at 8.

154

See “Interagency Guidance on Leveraged Lending,” Final Supervisory Guidance, 78
FR 17766 (March 22, 2013), at http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/FR-2013-03-22/pdf/201306567.pdf (Leveraged Lending Guidance).

202

b. Overview of Original Proposal and Reproposal
In the original proposal, the agencies observed that a CLO manager generally acts
as the sponsor by selecting the commercial loans to be purchased by the CLO issuing
entity and managing the securitized assets once deposited in the CLO structure. 155
Accordingly, the original proposal would have required the CLO manager to satisfy the
minimum risk retention requirement for each CLO securitization transaction that it
managed by holding a sufficient amount of standard risk retention. The original proposal
did not include a form of risk retention designed specifically for CLO securitizations.
As discussed in the reproposal, many commenters on the original proposal raised
concerns regarding the impact of the proposal on open market CLOs. Some commenters
asserted that most asset management firms currently serving as open market CLO
managers do not have the balance sheet capacity to fund 5 percent horizontal or vertical
slices of the CLO. They asserted that imposing standard risk retention requirements on
these managers could cause independent CLO managers to exit the market or be acquired
by larger firms. According to these commenters, the resulting erosion in market
competition could increase the cost of credit for large companies that are of lower credit
quality or that do not have a third-party evaluation of the likelihood of timely payment of
interest and repayment of principal and that are represented in CLO portfolios above the
level that otherwise would be consistent with the credit quality of these companies.
Certain commenters also asserted that open market CLO managers are not
“securitizers” under section 15G of the Exchange Act and, therefore, the agencies do not

155

See Original Proposal, 76 FR at 24098 n. 42.

203

have the statutory authority to subject them to risk retention requirements. These
commenters asserted that CLO managers are not “securitizers” as defined in section 15G
of the Exchange Act because they do not own, sell, or transfer the loans that comprised
the CLO’s collateral pool, but only direct which assets would be purchased by the CLO
issuing entity.
In the reproposal, the agencies discussed these comments and explained that the
definition of “securitizer” under section 15G of the Exchange Act applied to open market
CLO managers. 156 To help address concerns raised by commenters to the initial
proposal, the agencies proposed an alternative method for risk retention compliance for
CLOs that the agencies believed would be consistent with the purposes of risk retention.
This alternate approach would be available under the reproposal to an open market CLO,
the assets of which consist primarily of portions of senior, secured syndicated loans
acquired by the issuing entity directly from sellers in open market transactions and
servicing assets, and that holds less than 50 percent of its assets by aggregate outstanding
principal amount in loans syndicated by lead arrangers that are affiliates of the CLO or
CLO manager or originated by originators that are affiliates of the CLO or CLO manager
(lead arranger option).
Under the reproposal, as an alternative to the standard options for vertical or
horizontal risk retention, the sponsor of an open market CLO could avail itself of the lead
arranger option only if, among other requirements: (1) the CLO did not hold or acquire
any assets other than CLO-eligible loan tranches (discussed below) and servicing assets

156

See 2013 Reproposal, 78 FR at 57962.

204

(as defined in the reproposed rule); (2) the CLO did not invest in ABS interests or credit
derivatives (other than permitted hedges of interest rate or currency risk); and (3) all
purchases of assets by the CLO issuing entity (directly or through a warehouse facility
used to accumulate the loans prior to the issuance of the CLO’s liabilities) were made in
open market transactions on an arm’s length basis. In addition, to be eligible for the
option, the governing documents of the open market CLO would have to require, at all
times, that the assets of the open market CLO consist only of CLO-eligible loan tranches
and servicing assets.
Under the reproposal’s lead arranger option, a term loan of a syndicated credit
facility to a commercial borrower would have qualified as a CLO-eligible loan tranche if
the firm serving as lead arranger for the term loan tranche were to retain at least 5 percent
of the face amount of the term loan tranche. The lead arranger would have been required
to retain this portion of the loan tranche until the repayment, maturity, involuntary and
unscheduled acceleration, payment default, or bankruptcy default of the loan tranche.
This requirement would have applied regardless of whether the loan tranche was
purchased on the primary or secondary market, or was held at any particular time by an
open market CLO, and was designed to allow meaningful risk retention to be held by a
party that has significant control over the underwriting of assets that are typically
securitized in CLOs, without causing significant disruption to the CLO market.
In order to ensure that a lead arranger retaining risk had a meaningful level of
influence on loan underwriting terms, the reproposal would have required that the lead
arranger be identified in the legal documents governing the origination, participation or
syndication of the syndicated loan or credit facility and that such documents include

205

covenants by the lead arranger that it will fulfill the requirement to retain a minimum of 5
percent of the face amount of the CLO-eligible loan tranche. The lead arranger also
would be required to take on an initial allocation of at least 20 percent of the face amount
of the broader syndicated loan or credit facility, with no other member of the syndicate
assuming a larger allocation or commitment. Additionally, a retaining lead arranger
would have been required to comply with the same sales and hedging restrictions as
sponsors of other securitizations until the repayment, maturity, involuntary and
unscheduled acceleration, payment default, or bankruptcy default of the loan tranche.
Voting rights within the broader syndicated loan or credit facility would also have to be
defined in such a way that holders of the “CLO-eligible” loan tranche had, at a minimum,
consent rights with respect to any material waivers and amendments of the legal
documents governing the underlying CLO-eligible loan tranche. Additionally, the pro
rata provisions, voting provisions, and security associated with the CLO-eligible loan
tranche could not be materially less advantageous to the holders of that tranche than the
terms of other tranches of comparable seniority in the broader syndicated credit facility.
Under the reproposal’s lead arranger option for open market CLOs, the sponsor
would have been required to disclose a complete list of every asset held by an open
market CLO (or before the CLO’s closing, in a warehouse facility in anticipation of
transfer into the CLO at closing). This list would have been required to include the
following information (i) the full legal name and Standard Industrial Classification
category code of the obligor of the loan or asset; (ii) the full name of the specific CLOeligible loan tranche held by the CLO; (iii) the face amount of the CLO-eligible loan
tranche held by the CLO; (iv) the price at which the CLO-eligible loan tranche was

206

acquired by the CLO; and (v) for each loan tranche, the full legal name of the lead
arranger subject to the sales and hedging restrictions. Second, the sponsor would have
been required to disclose the full legal name and form of organization of the CLO
manager. This information would have been required to be disclosed a reasonable period
of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction
(and at least annually with respect to information regarding the assets held by the CLO)
and, upon request, to the Commission and the sponsor’s appropriate Federal banking
agency, if any. Further, the lead arranger and CLO manager would be required to certify
or represent as to the adequacy of the collateral and the attributes of the borrowers of the
senior, secured syndicated loans acquired by the CLO and certain other matters.
c. Overview of Public Comments
The agencies received many comments asserting that the proposed options for
open market CLOs would be unworkable under existing CLO practices and would lead to
a significant reduction in CLO offerings and a corresponding reduction in credit to
commercial borrowers. These commenters asserted that the likelihood of a significant
number of lead arrangers retaining 5 percent risk retention (in any of the forms permitted
by the rule) would be remote and only the largest CLO managers would be able to
finance the proposed risk retention requirement through the standard risk retention
option. While larger managers might have sufficient financing, several commented that
the risk retention requirements would make the management of CLOs less profitable and
might cause many managers to decrease their activity in the market. One commenter
highlighted a recently issued paper by the Bank of England and the European Central
Bank to suggest that risk retention rules in Europe that apply to CLO managers have

207

contributed to a reduction in European CLO issuance. 157 Several commenters asserted
that if the risk retention requirement causes a reduction in participation by open market
CLOs in the leveraged loan market, some of the resulting reduced credit availability
would be replaced by non-CLO credit providers, but cost of capital and instability in the
market would increase.
Some commenters expressed specific concerns about the proposed lead arranger
option. These commenters stated that having lead arrangers hold a portion of the loan
would increase the costs of arranging loans, thus restricting the availability of credit to
borrowers or increasing the cost of credit to borrowers. In addition, commenters
expressed concern that few loans would satisfy the definition of “CLO-eligible loan
tranche.” Furthermore, they asserted that the additional voting rights required by the
reproposal would be administratively unworkable and commercially unacceptable.
Several commenters also raised concerns that the proposed option would expose the
arranger to potential liability and litigation risks that arrangers should not be expected,
and would not be willing, to assume. Commenters raised particular concern about the
requirement that a lead arranger represent that the loans and collateral meet specified
criteria. They asserted that such a representation would require the lead arranger to make
subjective and difficult determinations regarding the adequacy of collateral, and the
sufficiency of the security interest in the collateral and certain other matters, and could
expose the lead arranger to potential liability.

157

The Case for a Better Functioning Securitisation Market in the European Union, Bank
of England and the European Central Bank (May 2014), available at
https://www.ecb.europa.eu/pub/pdf/other/ecbboe_case_better_functioning_securitisation_marketen.pdf.

208

Another concern raised by several commenters was that the proposed lead
arranger option would prevent prudent risk management practices and thus invite
criticism from lead arrangers’ bank regulators because the hedging restriction would
prohibit arrangers from actively managing the risks and disposing of loan assets in
response to market conditions, and would limit lead arrangers’ capacities to provide other
forms of credit to borrowers. Further, commenters stated that use of the option would
increase the capital and FDIC assessment charges for lead arranger banks and cause
corresponding increases in the pricing of CLO-eligible tranches. In addition, some
commenters raised concerns that the proposed option’s creation of both CLO-eligible
loans and non-eligible loans with otherwise comparable characteristics would distort and
restrict the initial syndication process and the secondary loan market, as the secondary
loan market would place a premium on CLO-eligible loans and liquidity related to noneligible loans would be reduced. Relative to a “normal” market, both types of loans
would be less liquid because they would each reflect a smaller, divided market.
As discussed in Part B.1 of this Supplementary Information, a number of
commenters expressed concern that the proposed restriction on cash flow distributions to
eligible horizontal residual interests would make the eligible horizontal residual interest
an unworkable option for CLOs. They suggested that the cash flow distribution
restriction would significantly reduce returns to equity investors, making CLOs
unattractive investments and cause dramatically reduced CLO issuances. Further, a few
commenters supported a phase-in period while markets adjust to the final rule or a
grandfathering for certain legacy CLOs. Two commenters also recommended that the

209

risk retention rules follow the European risk retention rules with respect to CLOs. 158 One
such commenter expressed concerns that inconsistent regulations would cause bifurcation
of the CLO market and substantially reduce market liquidity. Further, a few commenters
asserted that the costs of imposing risk retention on CLO managers exceeds the benefits
and that the agencies have not performed an adequate economic analysis in connection
with the CLO option.
Some commenters continued to assert that open market CLO managers are not
“securitizers” and are, therefore, not subject to section 15G. These commenters asserted
that under the plain language of the statute, CLO managers cannot “sell” or “transfer” the
assets securitized through the CLO because they do not own, possess, or control the
assets. Additionally, commenters asserted that the CLO manager acts as an agent to the
CLO issuing entity in directing the purchase of assets, so it could not sell or transfer the
assets to a third party to meet the definition, because it would be equivalent to selling or
transferring the assets to itself. They asserted that the use of “indirectly” in the definition
of securitizer was intended to prevent the party that originates a loan from avoiding risk
retention obligations by passing the loan through an associated intermediary that
organized and initiated the securitization.
The commenters also asserted that the interpretation is not supported by the
legislative history or statutory purpose of the Dodd-Frank Act. They suggested that
Congress primarily intended to address problems with the originate-to-distribute model

158

The agencies note that Articles 404-410 of the EU Capital Requirements Regulation
significantly amended Article 122a of the European Union’s Capital Markets Directive
with respect to the use of third parties to retain risk.

210

and transparency issues in securitization transactions, but open market CLOs differ from
the originate-to-distribute model and are more transparent than the products Congress
sought to regulate. The commenters stated that in the originate-to-distribute model
originators receive significant up-front fees for originating loans, which they transfer into
securitization pools to promote the business of creating additional loans. They asserted
that CLOs differ from this model because the primary purpose of CLOs is to provide
investors with the ability to gain exposure to commercial loans on a diversified basis, not
to finance the creation of financial assets. They also asserted that, unlike originators in
the originate-to-distribute model, who receive their compensation by originating and
transferring the assets to securitization pools, the bulk of CLO managers’ compensation
is based on performance of the securitized assets in the CLO. Regarding the transparency
issues that Congress sought to address, the commenters suggested that the primary
concern of Congress was to apply risk retention to highly opaque and complex products
like re-securitizations of asset-backed securities. These commenters asserted that CLOs
are more transparent than such products because they contain fewer, larger, loans and the
obligors of such loans are typically known corporations on which investors can perform
extensive due diligence, and the loans are traded in a liquid market that assesses risks and
underwriting quality.
In addition to the above comments, some commenters requested alternative
options for meeting risk retention or that the agencies provide an exemption from risk
retention for managers of open market CLOs where certain criteria would be met because
of the nature and characteristics of open market CLOs. In this regard, commenters
asserted that open market CLOs operate independently of originators and are not part of,

211

and do not pose the same risks as, the originate-to-distribute model. They also suggested
that CLO managers’ interests are fully aligned with CLO investors’ interests because
CLO managers bear significant risk through their deferred, contingent compensation
structure, which they asserted is based heavily on performance of the securitized assets.
Further, commenters stated that most CLO managers are registered investment advisors
with associated fiduciary duties to their investors. One commenter also referred to other
regulations and guidance, asserting that they already provide meaningful protections
against imprudent or inferior underwriting, including the leveraged lending guidance
released by the Federal banking agencies in 2013. 159 Several commenters also supported
their arguments by indicating that the assets selected by CLO managers are evaluated
through multiple layers of underwriting and market decisions and CLO loan portfolios
are actively managed for much of the life of a CLO. Commenters further asserted that
CLO managers select senior secured commercial loans with investor protection features.
Some commenters asserted that, unlike many other securitizations, CLOs are
securitizations of liquid assets and they are structurally transparent. They also stated that
CLOs have historically performed well and that this strong performance is evidence that
further regulation is unnecessary and that customary features of CLOs, including
overcollateralization and interests coverage tests, protect investors. The alternative
options and exemption requests are discussed in further detail below.
d. Response to Comments
i. Definition of “Securitizer” and Legislative History of Section 15G

159

See Leveraged Lending Guidance.

212

The agencies have considered the concerns raised by commenters with respect to
the reproposal, including with respect to open market CLOs. As discussed above,
commenters asserted that CLO managers could not be “securitizers” within the definition
thereof in section 15G of the Exchange Act, including the contention that they do not
legally own, possess, or control the assets.
As explained in the reproposal, the agencies believe that CLO managers are
clearly included within the statutory definition of “securitizer” set forth in section 15G of
the Exchange Act. Subpart (a)(3)(B) of section 15G begins the definition of a
“securitizer” by describing a securitizer as a “person who organizes and initiates an assetbacked securities transaction.” CLOs clearly meet the definition of “asset-backed
security” set forth in section 3 of the Exchange Act, which defines “asset-backed
security” as “a fixed income or other security collateralized by any type of selfliquidating financial asset (including a loan, a lease, a mortgage, or a secured or
unsecured receivable) that allows the holder of the security to receive payments that
depend primarily on the cash flow from the asset.” 160 As discussed above, a CLO is a
fixed income or other security that is typically collateralized by portions of tranches of
senior, secured commercial loans or similar obligations. The holder of a CLO is
dependent upon the cash flow from the assets collateralizing the CLO in order to receive
payments. Accordingly, a CLO is an asset-backed securities transaction for purposes of
the risk retention rules. 161

160

See 15 U.S.C. § 78c(a)(79).

161

Furthermore, CDOs are specifically mentioned as examples both in the definition of
“asset-backed security” and elsewhere in section 941 of the Dodd-Frank Act. See 15
213

A CLO manager typically negotiates the primary deal terms of the transaction and
the primary rights of the issuing entity and uniformly directs such entity to acquire the
commercial loans that comprise its collateral pool. Under the plain language of the
statute, therefore, a CLO manager organizes and initiates an asset-backed securities
transaction. 162
The definition continues that the organizer and initiator of a CLO does so “by
selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, to
the issuer.” A CLO manager indirectly transfers the assets to the CLO issuing entity
because the CLO manager has sole authority to select the commercial loans to be
purchased by the CLO issuing entity for inclusion in the CLO collateral pool, directs the
issuing entity to purchase such assets in accordance with investment guidelines, and
manages the securitized assets once deposited in the CLO structure. Most importantly,
an asset is not transferred to the CLO issuing entity unless the CLO manager has selected
the asset for inclusion in the CLO collateral pool and instructed the CLO issuing entity to
acquire it.
Although some commenters have narrowly interpreted the term “transferring” to
specifically require legal ownership or possession of the object being transferred, the
agencies observe that the plain meaning of “transfer” does not first require ownership or
possession and otherwise is not as narrow as these commenters assert. 163 “Transfer” is

U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)(A)(ii) and 78o-11(c)(1)(F). As discussed above, CLOs are a type of
CDO and CLOs and CDOs have the same general structure.
162

The definition of “sponsor” is discussed in Part II of this Supplementary Information.

163

See, e.g., Babbitt v. Sweet Home Chapter of Communities for a Great Or., 515 U.S.
687, 697-98 (1995) (rejecting the argument that the word “harm,” defined “to cause hurt
214

commonly defined as “to cause to pass from one to another,” which is precisely what the
CLO manager does. 164 The CLO manager causes assets to be passed from the seller to
the issuing entity because the CLO manager selects the assets for the collateral pool and
directs the issuing entity to purchase such assets. Therefore, the CLO manager
“transfers” the assets according to a commonly accepted definition of the word. There is
no indication in the statute that Congress intended to interpret the word “transfer” as
narrowly as commenters have advocated. If Congress had desired such an interpretation
that would be narrower than how the term is commonly defined, the agencies believe that
additional limiting language would have been included in the statute. CLO managers,
therefore, fall clearly within the statutory definition of “securitizer” as set forth in
Exchange Act section 15G.
Even if there were ambiguity as to whether CLO managers are covered by the
definition of “securitizer,” the agencies believe that the interpretation of “securitizer” to
include CLO managers is reasonable. In addition to being consistent with commonly
used definitions of “transfer,” as discussed above, the interpretation is consistent with the
context, purposes and legislative history of the statute. Further, the alternative
interpretation argued by commenters would lead to results that would be contrary to the
purposes of section 941 and Congressional intent.

or damage to: injure,” should be read so narrowly as to require a showing of direct injury
to something).
164

Merriam-Webster’s Collegiate Dictionary 1253 (10th ed. 1995); See also Random
House Webster’s College Dictionary 1366 (2nd ed. 1997); The New Oxford American
Dictionary 1797 (Elizabeth J. Jewell & Frank Abate eds., 2001).

215

The text surrounding the word “transfer” supports the agencies’ interpretation of
the word. To read “transfer” narrowly to require ownership or possession would make
the preceding word “sell” superfluous because the act of selling necessarily involves the
legal transfer of the asset. 165 In addition, the agencies do not believe that the phrase
“including through an affiliate” bolsters the commenters’ claim that “transfer” was
intended to be interpreted in this limited manner because the use of the word “include” in
a statute can signal that what follows is meant to be illustrative rather than exclusive. 166
As stated earlier, the agencies believe that a CLO manager generally acts as the sponsor
by selecting the commercial loans to be purchased by the CLO issuing entity and
managing the securitized assets once deposited in the CLO structure, which the agencies
believe is a transfer or indirect transfer of the assets.
The agencies also disagree with the commenters’ assertion that the CLO manager
does not transfer or sell assets because, as an agent of the CLO, it is on the same side of
the transaction as the purchaser (the special purpose issuing entity). Under the same
reasoning, one could claim that an originator of assets that creates a special purpose
vehicle to issue asset-backed securities and transfers assets to that special purpose vehicle
could never be a securitizer, because the originator also essentially would be transferring

165

Cf. Hibbs v. Winn, 542 U.S. 88, 101 (2004) (stating that it is one of the most basic
interpretive canons, that “ ‘[a] statute should be construed so that effect is given to all its
provisions, so that no part will be inoperative or superfluous, void or insignificant . . . .’”)
(quoting 2A N. Singer, Statutes and Statutory Construction § 46.06, pp.181–186 (rev. 6th
ed.2000)).
166

See Samantar v. Yousuf, 560 U.S. 305, 316-17 (2010). While Congress referred to
transferring through affiliates as an example of indirect transfer, it did not preclude other
forms of indirect transfer in the definition of “securitizer,” nor did it specifically limit the
definition to parties in the chain of title.

216

the assets to itself. If that were the case, then many types of securitizations would not
have an entity that would be subject to risk retention.
Moreover, the agencies disagree with commenters’ assertions that Congress
intended section 15G to apply primarily to securitizations within the originate-todistribute model. Congress did not specify that the requirements of the statute apply only
to certain types of securitization models or structures. Indeed, section 15G specifies that
risk retention applies to all securitizers, 167 unless they have a specific exemption under
the statute or the agencies provide a specific exemption in accordance with criteria set
forth in the statutory text.168 Congress did not specifically exclude securitizations that are
not part of an originate-to-distribute model – or any other particular market model or
structure of securitization – from risk retention. Although the legislative history indicates
that Congress was concerned about securitizations within the originate-to-distribute
model, nowhere in the text or legislative history did Congress indicate that it intended for
risk retention not to apply to transactions that some may assert are not “originate-todistribute” securitizations.
Furthermore, the leveraged loan market shares characteristics with the “originateto-distribute” model that led to the deterioration in underwriting standards that were a
major factor in the recent financial crisis. Originators of leveraged loans often retain
little or no interest in the assets they originate, and originate and underwrite with the

167

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(b)(1) (“[T]he Federal banking agencies and the Commission
shall jointly prescribe regulations to require any securitizer to retain an economic interest
in a portion of the credit risk for any asset that the securitizer, through the issuance of an
asset-backed security, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party.”).
168

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(1)(G)(i) and 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e).

217

intention of distributing the entire loan. In this regard, leveraged loans purchased by
CLOs are often originated as a fee-generating, rather than a lending business, and
originators do not have the same incentive to underwrite carefully as they would for loans
they intend to keep in portfolio. These characteristics of the leveraged loan market pose
potential systemic risks similar to those observed in the residential mortgage market
during the crisis, whether the loans are placed with CLOs or other types of institutional
investors.
Additionally, there is no evidence to support the notion that Congress expected
“securitizer” to be read narrowly so that risk retention requirements would apply only to
sponsors of securitizations which have a specific type of structure or only to sponsors that
fulfill a narrow and specific structural role in a securitization transaction. Furthermore,
the agencies believe that the narrow reading of “securitizer” supported by commenters
could lead to results that would appear contrary to Congressional intent by opening the
statute to easy evasion. Under such an interpretation, it would be feasible for many
sponsors to evade risk retention by hiring a third-party manager to “select” assets for
purchase by the issuing entity that have been pre-approved by the sponsor. This could
result in a situation in which no party to a securitization can be found to be a “securitizer”
because the party that organizes the transaction and has the most influence over the
quality of the securitized assets could avoid legally owning or possessing the assets. 169
Interpreting the term “securitizer” to produce such an easily evaded rule would be an

169

As discussed, Congress clearly expected this rule to apply to sponsors of CDOs, but
the commenters’ claims, if credited, would also exclude sponsors of CDOs from the
requirements of risk retention.

218

unreasonable result that cannot comport with the intent of Congress in enacting section
15G of the Exchange Act.
With respect to the issuance of asset-backed securities, there is always a sponsor
responsible for the organization and initiation of the issuance of asset-backed
securities. 170 The issuing entity for a CLO transaction is a special purpose vehicle
formed by some other party solely for the express purpose of issuing asset-backed
securities. However, some person or other entity -- namely, the sponsor -- “organized
and initiated” this special purpose vehicle with the intent that this special purpose vehicle
would issue asset-backed securities. The agencies do not believe that the special purpose
vehicle formed to issue asset-backed securities in a CLO transaction does so independent
of the actions of a sponsor. The agencies also note that the commenters did not identify
another party to an open market CLO transaction other than the CLO manager that should
be considered the sponsor.
As indicated in the legislative history of the Dodd-Frank Act, the broad purpose
of the statute was to “create incentives that will prevent a recurrence of the excesses and
abuses that preceded the crisis, restore investor confidence in asset-backed finance, and
permit securitization markets to resume their important role as sources of credit for
households and businesses.” 171 In drafting section 941, Congress recognized that it

170

Similar to the agencies interpretation of “securitizer” to include CLO managers, the
definitions of “issuer” in both the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Securities Act of
1933 include, with respect to certain kinds of vehicles, “the person or persons performing
the acts and assuming the duties of depositor or manager pursuant to the provisions of the
trust or other agreement or instrument under which the securities are issued.”

171

S. Rep. No. 111-176, at 128.

219

would be impractical for many investors to adequately assess and monitor the risks of
assets underlying complex securitization products.172 As a result, Congress sought to
encourage monitoring and assessment of such assets by the parties better suited to do so,
namely those who organize and initiate the securitizations.173 Like other securitization
sponsors, a CLO manager is the party best positioned to adequately monitor and assess
the risk of the securitized assets. For the reasons discussed above, the agencies continue
to find that a CLO manager is a “securitizer” under section 15G of the Exchange Act. 174
ii. Exemption Requests and Alternative Proposals
Many commenters suggested that the risk retention rules should not be applied to
open market CLOs because, as described above, they believe the structural and other
characteristics of open market CLOs make risk retention unnecessary. Among the
primary characteristics highlighted to justify an exemption, commenters asserted that
CLO managers’ subordinated compensation structure aligns their interests with those of
investors, CLOs differ from the originate-to-distribute model, and the underwriting of
CLOs’ assets is subject to multiple levels of scrutiny. As an alternative to an exemption
based solely on such characteristics, several commenters supported exemptions for open

172

Id.

173

Id. at 129 (“When securitizers retain . . . risk, they have ‘skin in the game,’ aligning
their economic interests with those of investors. . . . Securitizers who retain risk have a
strong incentive to monitor the quality of the assets they purchase from originators,
package into securities, and sell. . . . Originators . . . will come under increasing market
discipline because securitizers who retain risk will be unwilling to purchase poor-quality
assets.”).
174

Furthermore, the agencies believe that this applies to other issuances of asset-backed
securities in which the securitized assets are selected by a manager and no other
transaction party meets the definition of “sponsor.” See Parts III.B.4 and III.B.8 of this
Supplementary Information.

220

market CLOs meeting certain qualifications. One commenter proposed an exemption
from risk retention for open market CLOs that met the following conditions: (i) the asset
manager must be a registered investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of
1940; 175 (ii) all U.S. investors must be qualified purchasers or knowledgeable employees,
consistent with reliance on the section 3(c)(7) exemption from investment company
status under the Investment Company Act; 176 (iii) the pool of assets are permitted and
expected to be traded by the asset manager on behalf of the issuer in accordance with
contractually agreed restrictions; (iv) the asset management agreement establishes a
standard of care that requires the asset manager to employ a degree of skill and care no
less than it uses for its own investments and consistent with industry standards for asset
managers that are acting on behalf of comparable clients; and (v) the investment adviser
effects agency cross trades on behalf of its advisory client only in accordance with
section 275.206(3)-2 of the Commission’s rules under the Investment Advisers Act. 177
The agencies also received several comments in continued support of an option
that was suggested with respect to the original proposal that the agencies did not include
in the revised proposal. This suggestion would allow an open market CLO manager to
satisfy its risk retention requirement by holding a combination of notes issued by the
CLO, modeled to reflect the risks assumed by CLO managers through their subordinated
compensation structure, and equity securities issued by the CLO and purchased by the
CLO manager.

175

15 U.S.C. 80b-3(b).

176

15 U.S.C. 80a-3(c)(7).

177

17 CFR 275.206(3)-2.

221

Several commenters supported an option that would expand the above proposal
by allowing managers of “Qualified CLOs” to satisfy the risk retention requirement by
purchasing 5 percent of the CLO’s equity and maintaining a subordinated compensation
structure. Commenters proposed that, in order to be deemed a Qualified CLO, the CLO’s
governing transaction documents would have to include specific requirements in the
following areas: asset quality; portfolio composition; structural features; alignment of the
interests of the CLO manager and investors in the CLO’s securities; regulatory oversight;
and transparency and disclosure. Commenters suggested requirements under each of
these categories that they asserted would ensure high quality underwriting and investor
protection. They also suggested that this proposal should be adopted along with the
third-party option and pro rata risk retention reduction proposals described below, as they
do not feel that the option alone would sufficiently address the projected effects that the
rule will have on open market CLOs.
Several commenters suggested that the agencies could adopt the commenters’
exemption proposals under the agencies’ exemptive authority provided by section
15G(e). 178 Alternatively, commenters supporting the Qualified CLO proposal suggested
the proposal could be adopted as a construction of the statutory requirement that a
securitizer retain not less than 5 percent of the “credit risk” of any asset. In this regard,
the commenters asserted that by acquiring 5 percent of the equity interest in the CLO, and
by bearing the subordinated risk of non-payment embedded in the compensation structure
demanded by investors, the CLO manager would be retaining far more than 5 percent of

178

One commenter suggested that the Qualified CLO proposal could also be exempted
based on the agencies’ authority under section 15G(c)(1)(G)(i).

222

the credit risk associated with the CLO’s assets. As support for this suggestion, the
commenters cited research concluding that the majority of likely losses for a typical CLO
are borne by the bottom 20 percent of the CLO capital structure.
The agencies do not believe that it would be appropriate to exempt open market
CLOs from the risk retention requirement under section 15G(e). The statute permits the
agencies to adopt or issue exemptions, if the exemption would: (A) help ensure high
quality underwriting standards for the securitizers and originators of assets that are
securitized or available for securitization; and (B) encourage appropriate risk
management practices by the securitizers and originators of assets, improve the access of
consumers and businesses to credit on reasonable terms, or otherwise be in the public
interest and for the protection of investors. 179 While the agencies recognize that certain
structural features of CLOs contribute to aligning the interests of CLO managers with
investors, the agencies do not believe these structural features would support a finding
that the exemption would help ensure high quality underwriting standards and there are
reasons why such an exemption may run counter to the public interest and protection of
investors. 180
As discussed above, many of the structural features that commenters cited as
mitigating risk factors for CLOs were shared by other types of CDOs, such as CDOs of
asset-backed securities, that performed poorly during the financial crisis. Although the
structural features can offer protection to investors in senior tranches, such protections

179

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)(2).

180

For similar reasons, the agencies do not believe an exemption would be appropriate
under section 15G(c)(1)(G)(i).

223

are exhausted when a portfolio’s default rate significantly exceeds anticipated losses, as
was the case for CDOs of asset-backed securities during the financial crisis. In such a
situation, the manager may be incented to engage in even more risky behavior to
maintain cash flow and ensure the payment of its subordinated compensation. Although
CLOs performed better than other CDOs during the financial crisis, the better
performance of leveraged loans after the financial crisis in CLO portfolios could be
partially attributed to lowered interest rates and other government interventions. Some
commenters claimed that CLOs are composed of higher quality assets that undergo
significant underwriting scrutiny and that include investor protection features, but the
significant recent credit deterioration in the leveraged loan market, as described above,
demonstrates increasing risks in the types of assets held by CLOs. The agencies also note
that while the final rule does not include an exemption for open market CLOs, the
removal of the proposed restriction on cash flow distributions to the eligible horizontal
residual interest, as described in Part B.1 of this Supplementary Information, will provide
greater flexibility for CLO managers to satisfy the standard risk retention option, which
may reduce the cost of the standard risk retention option.
The agencies recognize that management fees incorporate credit risk sensitivity
and may contribute to some degree to aligning the interests of the CLO manager and
investors with respect to the quality of the securitized loans. On the other hand, as
discussed above, this subordinated compensation structure could also lead to a
misalignment of interests between the CLO manager and investors in certain
circumstances. Moreover, as discussed in the reproposal, these fees do not appear to
provide an adequate substitute for risk retention because they typically have small

224

expected value, especially given that CLOs securitize leveraged loans, which carry higher
risk than many other securitized assets. Even combining the expected value of the
manager’s compensation with a 5 percent interest in the equity of the CLO would be
inadequate because, as described by a commenter, such an equity interest would also
likely amount to under one percent of the fair value of the ABS interests issued to third
parties (which is less than the 5 percent required for an eligible horizontal residual
interest). Further, management fees are not funded in cash at closing and therefore may
not be available to absorb losses as expected. Generally, the agencies have declined to
recognize such unfunded forms of risk retention and the agencies are not persuaded that
an exception should be made for open market CLOs.
Some commenters supported an alternative approach that would reduce the risk
retention requirement for open market CLOs, on a pro rata basis, to the extent that the
commercial loans backing the issued CLO securities met certain underwriting criteria. In
order to qualify for reduced risk retention, the commercial loans would have to be senior
secured first lien loans that either (i) have a ratio of first lien debt to total capitalization of
less than or equal to 50 percent; or (ii) have a total leverage ratio of less than or equal to
4.5 times. 181 Further, this approach would reduce the risk retention requirement to the
extent that the CLO holds a subset of loans requiring certain specialized treatment. This
approach would require determination of whether a loan qualifies for reduced risk
retention treatment to be made at the time of origination. Further, this approach provided

181

In this context, leverage ratio refers to the borrower’s total debt divided by earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA).

225

that loans originated before the applicable effective date of the rule should not require
risk retention when securitized after such date.
The agencies are not persuaded that the risk retention requirement should be
reduced to the extent commercial loans backing the issued CLO securities meet the
criteria proposed by the commenters. As discussed in Part V.A of this Supplementary
Information, the final rule already provides exemptions from the risk retention
requirement for qualifying commercial loans that meet specific underwriting standards.
The agencies developed these standards to be reflective of very high quality loans. The
commenters’ approach relies on significantly weaker standards, and the agencies do not
believe that these criteria, which would permit securitization with no risk retention for
loans to borrowers who are of lower credit quality or that do not have a third-party
evaluation of the likelihood of timely payment of interest and repayment of principal,
would satisfy the statutory requirements for an exception to help ensure high quality
underwriting standards.
The agencies also disagree with the proposition that, in the context of CLOs,
loans originated before the applicable effective date of the rule should not be subject to
risk retention. Section 15G of the Exchange Act applies to any issuance of asset-backed
securities after the applicable effective date of the rule, regardless of the date the assets in
the securitization were originated. The agencies note, however, that securitizations of
loans meeting the seasoned loan exemption in section 19(b)(7) of the rule would not be
subject to risk retention requirements.
The agencies also received a number of comments in support of approaches to
allow a third party, rather than the CLO manager, to retain some or all of the required

226

credit risk in certain circumstances. To be eligible under these approaches, the third party
would be required to have a role in setting the selection criteria for the assets held by a
CLO and the power to veto any change to asset selection criteria. Specifically, the
commenters’ proposal would require: (i) prior to the CLO’s acquisition of the initial
CLO assets, the third party to review and assent to key transaction portfolio terms,
including the asset eligibility criteria, concentration limits, collateral quality tests, and
reinvestment criteria of the CLO’s asset pool; and (ii) any material change to the above
parameters to receive prior written consent by the third party retaining the CLO credit
risk. Further, to enable the third party retaining credit risk to evaluate, before the CLO
closes, whether the CLO manager is able to meet the asset selection criteria, the
commenters proposed that at least 50 percent of the initial asset pool would have to be
acquired (or be under a commitment to be acquired) by the closing date. One of the
approaches would also require that the CLO manager be a registered investment adviser
and would permit multiple parties to jointly satisfy the CLO’s risk retention requirement.
Another commenter proposed a different third-party retention option, under which
a sponsor’s risk retention requirement would be satisfied if one or more third parties
agreed to hold the required minimum risk retention. The commenter’s suggested option
would only apply to CLOs that are securitizations of corporate debt and servicing assets;
inclusion of other ABS interests would be prohibited. The third party or a party
appointed by the third party would be required to perform an independent review of the
credit risk of each securitized asset. Further, the proposal would require the CLO
manager to provide information to investors about the investment experience of each
third-party purchaser.

227

While the agencies considered the third-party retention proposals carefully, they
have concluded that the proposals would not provide an appropriate method of risk
retention. The proposed third-party retention options would result in retention of the
credit risk by a third party that would have less control over the CLO portfolio than the
CLO manager. These alternatives would result in weaker means of influencing the
underwriting quality in CLO portfolios and are therefore inadequate substitutes for risk
retention.
While, as discussed in Part III.B.5 of this Supplementary Information, the final
rule allows third-party purchasers to retain credit risk in CMBS transactions, CLO and
CMBS transactions vary in several significant ways that make such an option more
challenging in the CLO context. For example, differences between CMBS and CLO
transactions would make it more challenging for third-party investors to perform
thorough independent reviews of loans in CLO portfolios, including the dynamic nature
of CLO portfolios and the larger number of loans in typical CLO portfolios. In CMBS
transactions, the loan pool is chosen and is static before issuance, which permits loanlevel due diligence by the third-party investor. In CLOs, the loan pool is typically not
complete before issuance, and the pool is dynamic, limiting the ability of a third-party
investor to conduct loan-level due diligence before issuance. Under proposals submitted
by commenters, the third-party purchaser would be limited to evaluating investment
criteria for the CLO and would not conduct loan-level due diligence. In this regard, the
third-party purchaser would not be conducting loan-level re-underwriting, and
consequently is not a reasonable substitute for the original effort of the sponsor in
underwriting the loan pool. Furthermore, the third-party retention proposals would

228

provide the third-party purchaser with minimal power or influence over the composition
or quality of the CLO’s collateral pool after closing. In contrast to CMBS transactions
that generally give the third-party purchaser the right to reject loans from the pool, no
similar authority would be granted to CLO third-party purchasers under commenters’
proposals.
Given the weakening of underwriting and increase in risk in the leveraged loan
market, the agencies do not believe that existing market practice is sufficiently robust to
substitute for risk retention. Furthermore, the agencies do not believe the alternative
approaches suggested by commenters would significantly add protection to investors, as
investors in CLOs would presumably already have the opportunity to review and assent
to key portfolio transaction terms. 182 For these reasons, the agencies have decided
against adopting the third-party risk retention option. While the agencies considered
whether further parameters around a third-party risk retention option for CLO sponsors
would be appropriate, the agencies were not able to identify parameters that would
function well for CLOs or that would further the regulatory purposes of the risk retention
rules.
The agencies have also carefully considered commenters’ views about the impact
the proposed rules would have on CLO issuance and the commercial loan markets in
general. As discussed in the reproposal, the agencies acknowledge that requiring open

182

The risk retention approaches for CLOs suggested by commenters also reflect
standard market practices for certain other types of CDOs (e.g., CDOs of asset-backed
securities) that performed poorly during the financial crisis in which key investors
negotiated asset selection criteria and reinvestment criteria and changes to those criteria
required investor consent.

229

market CLO managers to satisfy the risk retention requirement could result in fewer CLO
issuances and less competition in this market. However, the agencies note that other
entities, such as hedge funds and loan mutual funds, also purchase commercial loans and
believe that the market will adjust to the rule and that lending to creditworthy commercial
borrowers, on appropriate terms, will continue at a healthy rate. The agencies also note
that commenters’ concerns about the impact of European risk retention requirements on
European CLO issuance may be misplaced, as economic conditions have constrained the
available supply of potential collateral for European CLOs.
Furthermore, the agencies believe projected impacts on the CLO market are
justified by the benefits that will be produced by subjecting open market CLOs to the risk
retention rules. As discussed, the agencies have significant concerns about recent activity
in the leveraged loan market. The search for yield in the low interest rate environment
has led investors to take on more risk in this market by investing in lower quality
commercial loans that contain fewer lender protections. 183 The agencies believe that
valuations on lower-rated corporate bonds and leveraged loans are stretched and excesses
in these markets could lead to higher levels of future defaults and losses. 184 The
origination and securitization of such poorly underwritten loans could generate systemic
financial risks. 185

183

See, e.g., Monetary Policy Report, at 1-2, 22; Semiannual Risk Perspective: Spring
2014, at 5.
184

See, e.g., Monetary Policy Report, at 1-2.

185

See, e.g., Leveraged Lending Guidance at 17771 (“[A] poorly underwritten leveraged
loan that is pooled with other loans or is participated with other institutions may generate
risk for the financial system.”); Shared National Credits Program: 2013 Review at 8
230

Increased appetite from investors for higher yielding and higher risk assets in the
leveraged loan market creates an environment susceptible to some of the abuses and
excesses that occurred in the residential and commercial mortgage markets that
contributed to the financial crisis. In particular, the agencies are concerned that this
environment could create incentives to originate an increased volume of loans, without
regard for quality or underwriting standards, for the purpose of distribution through
securitization. The agencies therefore have concluded that requiring open market CLO
managers or lead arrangers to retain economic exposure in the securitized assets will help
ensure the quality of assets purchased by CLOs, promote discipline in the underwriting
standards for such loans, and reduce the risk that such loans pose to financial stability.
For the reasons discussed above, the final rule requires open market CLO
managers to satisfy the minimum risk retention requirement for each CLO securitization
transaction that it manages by holding a sufficient amount of standard risk retention or
meet the requirements of the alternative lead arranger option. After considering all
comments, the agencies are adopting, largely as proposed, the lead arranger option for
open market CLOs, under which an open market CLO could satisfy the risk retention
requirement if the firm serving as lead arranger for each loan purchased by the CLO
retains at the origination of the syndicated loan at least 5 percent of the face amount of
the term loan tranche purchased by the CLO. The lead arranger is required to retain this
portion of the loan tranche until the repayment, maturity, involuntary and unscheduled
acceleration, payment default, or bankruptcy default of the loan. This requirement
(“Poorly underwritten or low quality leveraged loans, including those that are pooled
with other loans or participated with other institutions, may generate risks for the
financial system.”).

231

applies regardless of whether the loan tranche was purchased on the primary or secondary
market, or was held at any particular time by an open market CLO issuing entity.
Under the final rule’s lead arranger option, the sponsor is required to disclose a
complete list of every asset held by an open market CLO (or before the CLO’s closing, in
a warehouse facility in anticipation of transfer into the CLO at closing). This list requires
the following information (i) the full legal name, Standard Industrial Classification
category code and legal entity identifier (LEI) issued by a utility endorsed or otherwise
governed by the Global LEI Regulatory Oversight Committee or the Global LEI
Foundation (if an LEI has been obtained by the obligor) of the obligor of the loan or
asset; (ii) the full name of the specific CLO-eligible loan tranche held by the CLO; (iii)
the face amount of the CLO-eligible loan tranche held by the CLO; (iv) the price at which
the CLO-eligible loan tranche was acquired by the CLO; and (v) for each loan tranche,
the full legal name of the lead arranger subject to the sales and hedging restrictions.
Also, the final rule requires the sponsor to disclose the full legal name and form of
organization of the CLO manager. The sponsor is required to provide these disclosures a
reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the
securitization transaction (and at least annually with respect to information regarding the
assets held by the CLO) and, upon request, to the Commission and the sponsor’s
appropriate Federal banking agency, if any. Further, the CLO manager is required to
certify or represent as to the adequacy of the collateral and certain attributes of the
borrowers of the senior, secured syndicated loans acquired by the CLO and certain other
matters.

232

The agencies have added to the disclosure requirement the disclosure of an obligor’s

LEI issued by a utility endorsed or otherwise governed by the Global LEI Regulatory
Oversight Committee or the Global LEI Foundation, if an LEI has been obtained by the
obligor. The agencies believe that the LEI requirement allows investors in open-market
CLOs to better track the performance of assets originated by specific originators. The effort
to standardize a universal LEI has progressed significantly over the last few years. 186 As LEI
use becomes more mandated and widespread pursuant to other rules, the agencies anticipate
that LEI disclosure by obligors under the lead arranger option will become the standard.

In response to commenter concerns, the agencies have removed from the lead
arranger option for open market CLOs the requirement that lead arrangers and CLO
managers certify as to the adequacy of the collateral and the attributes of the borrowers of
the senior, secured syndicated loans that they purchase and certain other matters and
make certain covenants. Instead, a lead arranger will be required to certify that it has
evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process
for ensuring that loans included in a CLO-eligible tranche meet all of the requirements set
forth in section 9 of the rule applicable to CLO-eligible loan tranches and has concluded
that its internal supervisory controls are effective. CLO managers will be required to
certify that they have policies and procedures to evaluate the likelihood of repayment and
that they have followed such policies and procedures when determining the adequacy of

186

The Commission has prescribed the disclosure of LEI in other rulemakings. See, e.g.,
Nationally Recognized Statistical Rating Organizations; Final Rule, 79 FR 55078 (Sept.
15, 2014) and Reporting by Investment Advisers to Private Funds and Certain
Commodity Pool Operators and Commodity Trading Advisors on Form PF; Final Rule,
76 FR 71128 (Nov. 16, 2011).

233

the collateral and attributes of the borrowers of the loans that they purchase. These
certifications are similar to those required of depositors with respect to QRMs and other
qualifying asset classes. The agencies believe these modifications will reduce concerns
about risks and challenges that commenters asserted would be faced in connection with
the requirement that there be representations that the loans meet the rule’s criteria. The
agencies also note that the reference to “ensuring” that loans are CLO-eligible loans
should be interpreted in a manner similar to such reference in this Supplementary
Information with respect to QRMs and other qualifying asset classes.
As the agencies noted in the reproposal, the lead arranger option for open market
CLOs is intended to allocate risk retention to the parties that originate the underlying
loans and that likely exert the greatest influence on how the loans are underwritten, which
is an integral component of ensuring the quality of assets that are securitized. Subject to
considering certain factors, section 15G permits the agencies to allow an originator
(rather than a sponsor) to retain the required amount of credit risk and to reduce the
amount of credit risk required of the sponsor by the amount retained by the originator. 187
In developing the proposed lead arranger option, the agencies considered the factors set
forth in section 15G(d)(2) and concluded that it is consistent with the purposes of the
statute to allow lead arrangers of open market CLOs to satisfy the risk retention
requirement. 188

187

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(G)(iv), (d) (permitting the Commission and Federal banking
agencies to allow the allocation of risk retention from a sponsor to an originator).

188

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(d)(2). These factors are whether the assets sold to the securitizer
have terms, conditions, and characteristics that reflect low credit risk; whether the form
or volume of transactions in securitization markets creates incentives for imprudent
234

The agencies considered the commenters’ views that the option will not be widely
adopted by lead arranger banks, but the agencies believe the option provides additional
flexibility for lead arranger banks and non-banks and therefore may reduce disruption to
the market. The agencies also believe that this option for open market CLOs will
meaningfully align the incentives of the party most involved with the credit quality of
these loans – the lead arranger – with the interests of investors. Commenters raised
concerns that banks would likely not want to retain risk without being allowed to hedge
or transfer that risk due to concern about criticism from regulators. However, the
agencies note that these concerns were not raised for balance sheet CLOs where banks
would be required similarly to retain a portion of the loans’ risk without selling or
transferring that retained risk. In addition, to the extent the comments referred to
supervisory standards, the Federal banking agencies note that supervisors take into
account many considerations when reviewing loan portfolios, including applicable
regulations and guidance regarding underwriting and risk management. Alternatively,
incentives would be placed on the CLO manager to monitor the credit quality of loans it
securitizes, if it retains risk under the standard risk retention option.
For the reasons discussed above, open market CLO managers clearly fall within
the statutory definition of “securitizer” in Section 15G and therefore are subject to the
risk retention requirement. The agencies also believe that subjecting open market CLOs
and their managers to the risk retention requirement is within their authority and
consistent with the purposes of section 15G. The agencies believe the final rule places
origination of the type of loan or asset to be sold to the securitizer; and the potential
impact of risk retention obligations on the access of consumers and business to credit on
reasonable terms, which may not include the transfer of credit risk to a third party.

235

risk retention responsibility on the parties most capable of ensuring and monitoring the
credit quality of the assets collateralizing open market CLOs – the CLO manager or the
lead arranger. Further, the agencies believe these two options provide sufficient
flexibility to avoid significant disruptions to the CLO and credit markets.
8. Municipal Bond “Repackaging” Securitizations
a. Overview of the Reproposal and Public Comments
Several commenters on the original proposal requested that the agencies exempt
municipal bond repackaging securitizations from risk retention requirements, the most
common form of which are often referred to as “tender option bonds.” 189 In order to
reflect and incorporate the risk retention mechanisms currently implemented by the
market, the reproposal included two additional risk retention options for certain
municipal bond repackagings. The proposed rule closely tracked certain requirements for
these repackagings, outlined in IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-84, that are relevant to risk
retention. 190 Specifically, in the revised proposal, the agencies proposed additional risk

189

As described by one commenter, a typical tender option bond transaction consists of
the deposit of a single issue of highly rated, long-term municipal bonds in a trust and the
issuance by the trust of two classes of securities: floating rate, puttable securities (the
“floaters”), and an inverse floating rate security (the “residual”). The holders of floaters
have the right, generally on a daily or weekly basis, to put the floaters for purchase at par,
which put right is supported by a liquidity facility delivered by a highly rated provider
and causes the floaters to be a short-term security. The floaters are in large part
purchased and held by money market mutual funds. The residual is held by a longer term
investor (bank, insurance company, mutual fund, hedge fund, etc.). The residual investor
takes all of the market and structural risk related to the tender option bond structure, with
the floaters investors only taking limited, well-defined insolvency and default risks
associated with the underlying municipal bonds, which risks are equivalent to those
associated with investing in such municipal bonds directly.

190

Revenue Procedure 2003-84, 2003-48 I.R.B. 1159.

236

retention options for municipal bond repackagings issued by a “qualified tender option
bond entity,” which would be defined as an issuing entity of tender option bonds in
which:
•

Only two classes of securities are issued: a tender option bond and a residual

interest;
•

The tender option bond qualifies for purchase by money market funds under Rule

2a-7 under the Investment Company Act of 1940; 191
•

The holder of a tender option bond has the right to tender such bonds to the

issuing entity for purchase at any time upon no more than 30 days’ notice; 192
•

The collateral consists solely of municipal securities as defined in section 3(a)(29)

of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and servicing assets, and all the municipal
securities have the same municipal issuer and the same underlying obligor or source of
payment;
•

Each of the tender option bond, the residual interest and the underlying municipal

security are issued in compliance with the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
(the “IRS Code”), such that the interest payments made on those securities are excludable
from the gross income of the owners;
•

The issuing entity has a legally binding commitment from a regulated liquidity

provider to provide 100 percent guarantee or liquidity coverage with respect to all of the
issuing entity’s outstanding tender option bonds; 193 and

191

This requirement is in section 10 of the final rule (definition of “tender option bond”).

192

This requirement is in section 10 of the final rule (definition of “tender option bond”).

237

•

The issuing entity qualifies for monthly closing elections pursuant to IRS

Revenue Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Under the reproposal, the sponsor of a qualified tender option bond entity could
satisfy its risk retention requirements by retaining an interest that, upon issuance, would
meet the requirements of an eligible horizontal residual interest but that, upon the
occurrence of a “tender option termination event” as defined in section 4.01(5) of IRS
Revenue Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time, would meet
requirements of an eligible vertical interest. 194
Under the reproposal, the sponsor of a qualified tender option bond entity could
also satisfy its risk retention requirements by holding municipal securities from the same
issuance of municipal securities deposited in the qualified tender option bond entity, the

193

The final rule defines a regulated liquidity provider as a depository institution (as
defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813)); a bank
holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1841) or a subsidiary thereof; a savings and
loan holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1467a) provided all or substantially all of
the holding company’s activities are permissible for a financial holding company under
12 U.S.C. 1843(k) or a subsidiary thereof; or a foreign bank (or a subsidiary thereof)
whose home country supervisor (as defined in section 211.21 of the Board’s Regulation
K (12 CFR 211.21)) has adopted capital standards consistent with the Capital Accord of
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended, provided the foreign bank is
subject to such standards.

194

Section 4.01(5) of IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-84 defines a tender option
termination event as: (1) a bankruptcy filing by or against a tax-exempt bond issuer; (2) a
downgrade in the credit-rating of a tax-exempt bond and a downgrade in the credit rating
of any guarantor of the tax-exempt bond, if applicable, below investment grade; (3) a
payment default on a tax-exempt bond; (4) a final judicial determination or a final IRS
administrative determination of taxability of a tax-exempt bond for Federal default on the
underlying municipal securities and credit enhancement, where applicable; (5) a credit
rating downgrade below investment grade; (6) the bankruptcy of the issuer and, when
applicable, the credit enhancer; or (7) the determination that the municipal securities are
taxable.

238

face value of which retained municipal securities would be equal to 5 percent of the face
value of the municipal securities deposited in the qualified tender option bond entity.
The proposed prohibitions on transfer and hedging set forth in section 12 of the
reproposal applied to the holder of a residual interest in, as well as any municipal
securities retained by the sponsor of, a qualified tender option bond entity, if those
interests were held in satisfaction of the sponsor’s risk retention requirements under
section 10 of the reproposal.
The reproposal also would have allowed the sponsor of a qualified tender option
bond entity to satisfy its risk retention requirements under subpart B of the proposed rule
using any other risk retention option in the reproposal, provided the sponsor meets the
requirements of that option.
The agencies received many comments regarding the proposed tender option bond
options. Most of the comments requested an exemption from risk retention for tender
option bonds and, in the absence of an exemption, recommended either technical
clarifications or adjustments to the proposed options for tender option bonds to cover a
broader range of transaction structures.
Several commenters recommended that the final rule exclude issuance of tender
option bonds from the risk retention requirements for a variety of reasons, including:
•

The originate-to-distribute model that poses moral hazard risks in certain

securitization transactions is not present in a tender option bond program;
•

The tender option bond structure does not create information gaps for investors

because tender option bond programs do not involve pooling large numbers of unrelated assets;

239

•

The underlying bonds in a tender option bond structure generally are from one

original issuance with the same issuer and borrower/obligor;
•

The fund that selects the municipal bond to be deposited into a tender option bond

structure retains virtually all of the risk related to such municipal bonds, and the tender option
bond structure provides liquidity that is not found with typical asset-backed security products;
and
•

The industry generally does not define tender option bonds as structured finance

products or asset-backed securities.
Commenters urging exclusion of tender option bonds from the risk retention
requirements also stated that the current tender option bond market provides municipal issuers
with access to a diverse investor base and a more liquid market, and subjecting tender option
bonds to the risk retention requirements would significantly increase the costs of tender option
bond programs and adversely affect the state and local governments that indirectly receive
funding through these programs. They also commented that applying the risk retention rules to
these structures would decrease the availability of tax-exempt investments in the market for
money market funds, which are continuing to face limited investment options due to constraints
imposed by Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act.
A few commenters proposed that a sponsor of tender option bonds could satisfy its risk
retention requirements if the residual interest holder provides, either directly or indirectly
through an affiliate (i) 100 percent liquidity coverage on the floaters, (ii) a binding
reimbursement obligation to the provider of the 100 percent liquidity coverage, or (iii)
100 percent credit enhancement on the underlying municipal securities. A few commenters took
the position that any residual interest in any tender option bond structure should qualify as a risk

240

retention option under the rule if the residual interest is held by an unaffiliated entity that agrees
to subordinate its right to payment to the floater holders and the liquidity provider until the
occurrence of a tender option termination event.
One commenter recommended broadening the exemption relating to asset-backed
securities issued or guaranteed by a state or municipal entity to include securities collateralized
by such exempt securities. Several commenters proposed that only municipal bond repackaging
transactions with initial closing dates after the applicable effective date of the rule be subject to
the risk retention requirements.
Other commenters advocated for a broader tender option bond risk retention option that
would include most or all currently existing tender option bond programs, including those that
issue tender option bonds with a notice period for tender of up to 397 days, tender option bond
programs that hold assets other than tax-exempt municipal securities and servicing assets, 195
tender option bond programs that hold securities issued by more than one issuer, 196 and tender

195

One commenter explained that other qualifying assets should include taxable
municipal securities, preferred stock of registered closed-end investment companies that
primarily invest in municipal securities, tender option bonds or tender option bond
residual interests that are already issued and outstanding, and custodial receipts
representing beneficial interests in any of the foregoing. A second commenter’s
alternative proposal includes tender option bond programs that hold taxable municipal
securities and “securities evidencing a beneficial ownership interest in municipal
securities.” A third commenter’s alternative proposal included tender option bond
programs for which the “underlying collateral consists solely of tax-exempt assets or
beneficial interests in such assets.”

196

One commenter explained, in limited instances, assets held by tender option bond
trusts consist of municipal securities from different issues from the same issuer or of
more than one issuer.
241

option bond programs in which the required retained interest is held by multiple beneficial
owners, so long as all such owners are managed by a common regulated entity. 197
Several commenters suggested technical clarifications, adjustments and corrections,
including: the definition of qualified tender option bond entity should clarify the requirements
with respect to the liquidity guarantee; 198 the requirement that tender option bonds be eligible
securities under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment Company Act should be removed because it is
unnecessary in the risk retention context; the definition of tender option bond should be revised
so that the purchase price is par or face value plus accrued interest; the definition of qualified
tender option bond entity should require that the tender right be supported by a liquidity facility
or guarantee, except upon the occurrence of specified tender option termination events, and that
such liquidity facility or guarantee be enforceable against the entity obligated to support or
guarantee the purchase of the bonds upon tender; and the agencies should provide more specific
guidance on how the disclosure requirements would apply to tender option bonds. 199

197

One commenter explained that this allocation is common practice in large fund
complexes, and broadening this definition would not change the alignment of interests of
the trust holders. Another commenter requested that the agencies allow multiple
investment companies to satisfy the sponsor risk retention requirements.

198

One commenter explained that the liquidity facility in a tender option bond program
is typically structured as a credit enhancement of the underlying assets and not of the
floaters themselves.

199

One commenter asked that the agencies clarify that the disclosure requirements
applicable to the sponsor of a qualified municipal repackaging entity be limited to: (i) the
name and form of organization of the qualified municipal repackaging entity, (ii) a
description of the form and material terms of the retained interest, (iii) whether the
qualified municipal residual interest is held by the sponsor or a qualified residual holder,
and (iv) a description of the face value or fair value of the qualified municipal residual
interest or the municipal securities that are separately retained.

242

A few commenters expressed concern that the option to retain the residual interest only if
it otherwise qualified as an eligible horizontal residual interest before, and an eligible vertical
interest after, the occurrence of a tender option termination event was inconsistent with the
partnership tax analysis used to pass through the tax-exempt interest on the bonds because the
residual interest in a tender option bond structure is not legally subordinated at any time.
However, another commenter stated that a residual interest is substantially equivalent to an
eligible horizontal residual interest prior to the occurrence of a tender option termination event
and an eligible vertical interest after a tender option termination event because (i) prior to the
occurrence of a tender option termination event, the residual holder bears all the market risk, and
(ii) after a tender option termination event, any credit losses are shared pro rata between the
floaters and the residuals.
As part of a broader alternative definition for a qualified tender option bond entity, it was
suggested that the retained risk in a qualified municipal repackaging entity should be either a
residual or legally subordinate ABS interest equal to at least 5 percent of the face value (or fair
market value, if no face value is available) of the assets of the entity at closing.
A group of commenters suggested that, if the agencies do not provide a full exemption
for tender option bonds, the rule should state that retaining a residual interest in a qualified
tender option bond entity equal to 5 percent of the fair value (determined as of the date of
deposit) of the deposited assets should satisfy the risk retention requirements, without regard to
the requirements applicable to eligible horizontal residual interest or eligible vertical interest
requirements.
Other commenters recommended that the agencies permit the sponsor or the residual
holder to purchase and retain a residual interest with an upfront cash investment value equal to

243

5 percent of the initial market value of the municipal securities in the tender option bond
program. In addition, commenters asked that the rule allow a sponsor to aggregate the amount of
a tender option bond residual interest it holds, with the municipal securities it directly holds, as
of the date of deposit, in determining its risk retention requirement.
It was also suggested that the value of the collateral posted by a residual holder for a
liquidity facility should be recognized, and that the residual holder’s interest should be calculated
as the sum of (a) the face amount of the residual certificate and (b) the market value of the
collateral posted by the residual to secure the liquidity facility.
In terms of valuing the residual interest, one commenter suggested that the 5 percent
market value retention amount be calculated at the time of the purchase of the municipal bond or
the issuance of securities, to better conform to common industry practice and the realities of the
tender option bond program, if the agencies decide not to exempt tender option bonds. This
commenter explained that it would be impractical and costly to constantly monitor any
fluctuation in the market value of the municipal bonds, and that no adjustments should have to be
made if, during the life of the tender option bond trust, the market value of those bonds fluctuates
above or below the market value that is initially calculated.
Several commenters requested that the agencies permit a party other than the sponsor of
the issuing entity with respect to tender option bonds to be the risk retainer. Commenters stated
that such a party may include a third-party investor that selects the underlying asset for the
transaction and obtains the primary financing benefit of the structure, the funds or other investors
that purchase residuals in the tender option bond trust to satisfy the sponsor’s risk retention
obligations as third-party purchasers, and a third-party investor with respect to tender option
bond programs that are made available by sponsors and used by such third-party investors.

244

A few commenters requested that the final rule confirm that the “sponsor” is the bank
that creates the tender option bond program. Commenters explained that the residual holders do
not perform any of the traditional functions of a sponsor. One commenter claimed that deeming
the funds that purchase residuals to be the “sponsors” for purposes of risk retention would have
implications under other rules that use the term “sponsor,” including Rule 2a-7 under the
Investment Company Act and proposed Securities Act Rule 127B.
In connection with the prohibition on hedging in the reproposal, which prohibits hedges
that are “materially related to the credit risk” of the tender option bond residual interests and
securitized assets, a group of commenters requested that the agencies clarify the meaning of that
restriction to ensure that sponsors can manage the risks associated with up to 95 percent of the
assets held by a tender option bond program. It was also requested that the agencies exclude
from the hedging prohibition: (i) risk reducing and other transactions with regard to the
underlying municipal security that are entered into by the sponsor prior to the establishment of
the municipal bond repackaging structure, and (ii) transactions between the sponsor or its
affiliates and an unrelated third party where the purpose of such transaction is to provide
financing to such unrelated third party for such municipal securities on connection with a
municipal bond repackaging structure.
b. Final Rule
After considering carefully the comments received on the reproposal as well as
the purpose and language of section 15G of the Exchange Act, the agencies have adopted
in the final rule the proposed tender option bond options with some modifications. In
response to specific commenter concerns, the final rule incorporates certain technical
clarifications and adjustments.

245

The final rule does not provide an exemption from risk retention requirements for
sponsors of issuing entities with respect to tender option bonds. The agencies continue to
believe that tender options bonds are asset-backed securities under the definition in
section 15G because they are securities collateralized by self-liquidating financial assets
and the holders of the securities receive payments that depend primarily on cash flow
from the securitized assets. 200 Therefore, the sponsors of the issuing entities with respect
to tender option bonds are subject to section 15G and the credit risk retention rules.
Consistent with the treatment of sponsors of other asset-backed securities, the
holder of risk retention in connection with the issuance of tender option bonds may divide
the ABS interests or tax-exempt municipal securities required to be retained under the
final rule among its majority-owned affiliates, but may not do so among unrelated entities
that are managed by the sponsor or managed by an affiliate of the sponsor. Accordingly,
the sponsor of a tender option bond issuance under the rule may not sell the ABS interests
required to be retained under the rule to a fund it manages unless such fund is a majorityowned affiliate of the sponsor. Otherwise, the credit risk associated with holding the
ABS interest will be transferred to the investors in the fund that purchased those ABS
interests, which would undermine the purpose and intent of the statute.
The agencies believe that, with respect to some issuances of asset-backed
securities, it is possible that more than one party could meet the definition of sponsor in
the rule. 201 With respect to those issuances, it is the responsibility of the transaction

200

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(a).

201

The designation of a party as a sponsor of an issuance of asset-backed securities for
purposes of the final rule is not related to whether or not such party is the sponsor for
246

parties to designate which party is the sponsor and that party is then subject to the
requirements of the risk retention rules. 202 The agencies note that various commenters
requested that the agencies designate the bank that arranges and organizes the issuance of
tender option bonds or the party that owns the residual interest as the sponsor. Regarding
such requests, the agencies note that the party required to comply with the risk retention
rules with respect to a tender option bond issuance is the party or parties that meet the
definition of “sponsor” in the rule 203 and, depending on the specific facts and
circumstances of the issuance and how the parties structure the transaction, either the
arranging bank or the residual holder could be designated as the sponsor in accordance
with the final rule. 204
The purpose of the tender option bond risk retention options was to address
existing market practice for traditional tender option bond issuances that are specifically
purposes of other rules and regulations, including for example Rule 2a-7 under the
Investment Company Act (including the discussion of sponsor in the Money Market Fund
Reform, 79 FR at 47876) or section 13G of the Bank Holding Company Act (Volcker
Rule). Whether or not a party is the sponsor under a particular rule or regulation is
determined by reference to that rule or regulation and the related legal authority.
202

While this concern was specifically raised by commenters in the context of tender
option bonds, the agencies note that it is possible that any issuance of asset-backed
securities could have more than one party that meets the definition of sponsor, and the
analysis in this section would apply regardless of the securitization structure or
securitized assets.

203

As noted in the discussion of the definition of “securitizer” with respect to CLOs in
Part III.B.7 of this Supplementary Information, the agencies do not believe that a sponsor
is required to have had legal ownership or possession of the assets that collateralize an
issuance of asset-backed securities.

204

Nothing in the final rule prohibits the use by a sponsor of agents in order to meet the
sponsor’s obligations under the final rule, including the use of third-party service
providers, such as an underwriter or remarketing agent to distribute required disclosures
to investors in a timely manner. However, the sponsor remains liable for compliance
with its obligations under the final rule.

247

structured such that the interest payments made on those securities are excludable from
the gross income of the owners in the same way that the interest on the underlying
municipal securities is excludable. Certain commenters suggested that the requirement
that a residual interest in a tender option bond structure meet the requirements of an
eligible horizontal residual interest before, and an eligible vertical interest after, the
occurrence of a tender option termination event was inconsistent with the partnership tax
analysis required to be used to ensure the pass-through treatment of the tax-exempt
interest on the tender option bonds and tender option bond residuals. The agencies
acknowledge that some asset-backed securities are not legally structured as debt and, in
order to address this, the reproposal included and the final rule adopts a definition of
“collateral” which explicitly applies “irrespective of the legal structure of issuance” and
includes “fractional undivided property interests in the assets or other property of the
issuing entity, or any other property interest in such assets or other property.” The
agencies believe that a residual interest in a qualified tender option bond entity would
meet the requirements of an eligible horizontal residual interest before, and an eligible
vertical interest after, the occurrence of a tender option termination event if: (i) prior to
the occurrence of a tender option termination event, the residual holder bears all the
market risk associated with the underlying tax-exempt municipal security; and (ii) after
the occurrence of a tender option termination event, any credit losses are shared pro rata
between the tender option bonds and the residual interest.
The agencies do not agree with comments suggesting that tender option bond
structures with an initial closing date prior to the date on which rule becomes effective
should be exempt from the rule or “grandfathered.” Consistent with the statute, the

248

agencies believe that the sponsor of issuances of asset-backed securities after the
applicable effective date should be subject to risk retention requirements regardless of
when the structure that issues those securities was formed. A tender option bond
structure may issue additional asset-backed securities on multiple dates and may often
substitute collateral. These features, and the broad exemptive relief requested by
commenters, would allow for potentially limitless issuances of asset-backed securities
which would not be subject to any risk retention requirements. Requiring tender option
bond structures to meet the credit risk retention requirements regardless of their closing
date is consistent with treatment of other securitization structures that exist prior to and
continue to issue ABS interests after the applicable effective date of the rule, such as
ABCP conduits and revolving pool securitizations.
The agencies have determined not to revise the definition of qualified tender
option bond entity to expand the types of assets such structures can hold. 205 The tender
option bond option in section 10 of the final rule is narrowly drawn to address risk
retention practices in existing market structures and limit potential for abuse that could
result from a broad exemption based entirely on structural features. Accordingly, under
the final rule, sponsors of issuances of asset-backed securities that are subject to risk
retention and that are collateralized by assets other than tax-exempt municipal
securities 206 with the same municipal issuer and the same underlying obligor or source of

205

As proposed, the final rule requires that the collateral for a qualified tender option
bond entity to consist only of servicing assets and tax exempt municipal securities.

206

The agencies believe that a beneficial interest in a tax-exempt municipal security may
be held by a qualified tender option bond entity, but only if such beneficial interest is a
pass-through and pro rata interest in the underlying tax-exempt municipal security.
249

payment will need to comply with the requirements of one of the other credit risk
retention options. As a result, the final rule does not permit a qualified tender option
bond entity to hold a residual interest in another tender option bond program or preferred
stock in a closed-end investment company that invests in municipal securities.
The agencies have adopted the definition of tender option bond with one change
and a clarification. After considering comments, the agencies are permitting tender
option bonds with a notice period of up to 397 days to qualify for the specialized option.
The agencies note that this time frame corresponds to the maximum remaining maturity
of securities allowed to be purchased by money market funds under Rule 2a-7 under the
Investment Company Act. Consistent with the reproposal, the final rule requires that the
tender option bond have features which entitle the holder to tender the bond for a
purchase price equal to the approximate amortized cost of the security, plus accrued
interest, if any. The agencies believe that, in the context of a tender option bond,
“amortized cost plus accrued interest” typically equals face value or par value plus
accrued interest.
In response to commenters’ suggestions for valuation methodologies to determine
the fair value of a residual interest in a tender option bond issuance, to the extent that a
particular valuation methodology is appropriate in the fair value measurement framework
under GAAP to determine the fair value of a residual interest in a tender option bond
Therefore, a qualified tender option bond entity will be permitted to hold an asset-backed
security collateralized by a tax-exempt municipal security only if such asset-backed
security is a pass-through and pro rata interest in the underlying tax-exempt municipal
security and the cash flows supporting such asset-backed security are not tranched. A
qualified tender option bond entity will not be permitted to hold credit default swaps
referencing municipal obligations or tranched asset-backed securities, such as tender
option bonds.

250

issuance, then such valuation methodology would be permitted under the final rule to
determine the fair value of a retained residual interest in a tender option bond issuance.
After careful consideration of commenters’ suggestions for alternative valuation
methodologies, the agencies do not believe there is a compelling reason to treat tender
option bond residual interests differently from any other eligible horizontal residual
interest, and the final rule requires that the sponsor of a tender option bond calculate the
fair value of the residual interest.
Consistent with the reproposal, the final rule requires the amount of tax-exempt
municipal securities held by the sponsor or a majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor
outside of the qualified tender option bond entity to be determined by reference to the
face value of the municipal securities deposited in the qualified tender option bond entity.
For instance, if the face value of the tax-exempt municipal securities deposited into a
qualified tender option bond entity is $100 million, the sponsor or a majority-owned
affiliate of the sponsor will be required to hold tax-exempt municipal securities, identical
to those deposited in the tender option bond entity with respect to legal maturity and
coupon, with a face value of $5 million in order to satisfy its requirements under the final
rule. The agencies continue to believe that this approach is an accurate and easily
verifiable means of calculating 5 percent risk retention because the retained municipal
securities are identical to and fungible with the deposited municipal securities. This
approach should help to minimize operational costs, administrative burdens and
additional costs.
Regarding commenters’ requests that the agencies give a sponsor of a tender
option bond credit for cash held as collateral for the liquidity agreement, the final rule

251

does not allow such cash collateral credit to be credited toward satisfaction of the risk
retention requirements unless the cash is held in an account that meets the requirements
for an eligible horizontal cash reserve account. This result is consistent with the
approach regarding cash reserves connected to issuances of asset-backed securities under
other options in the final rule.
Regarding commenters’ requests for certain adjustments to, and clarification of,
the hedging prohibitions with respect to the tender option bond risk retention options and
with respect to tender option bond issuances generally, the agencies believe there is no
reason to treat sponsors of tender option bond structures any differently from sponsors of
other asset-backed securities issuances. Therefore, subject to provisions of the rule
regarding permitted hedges and the agencies’ interpretation of the hedging restrictions
discussed elsewhere in this preamble, the agencies believe that a hedging transaction
entered into prior to the establishment of the tender option bond trust should be subject to
the hedging prohibition. Permitting such hedges would allow the sponsor of a tender
option bond issuance to hedge its credit risk exposure to the tender option bond issuance
simply by hedging its expected exposure to the underlying assets prior to the initial
issuance of the tender option bonds, effectively eliminating the hedging prohibition.
Similarly, regarding commenters’ requests for an exclusion for hedging transactions
entered into between the sponsor of a tender option bond issuance or its affiliates and an
unrelated party where the purpose of such transaction is to provide financing to such third
party for the municipal securities to be deposited into a tender option bond structure, the
agencies believe that the holder of retained credit risk should not be permitted to hedge
its exposure to the retained credit risk. This approach is consistent with the treatment of

252

all other credit risk retention options in the final rule. The agencies further believe that
consideration of the purpose and intent of transactions that effectively hedge or reduce
the risks associated with credit risk retention would undermine the hedging prohibition
and the purpose and intent of section 15G.
Regarding commenters’ requests to clarify the phrase “materially related to the
credit risk” in the hedging prohibition, the agencies expect the sponsor of a tender option
bond issuance to make that determination based on the relevant facts and circumstances.
To the extent that the sponsor of a tender option bond issuance holds ABS interests or tax
exempt municipal securities in excess of the minimum requirement under the final rule,
then such sponsor would be permitted to hedge such excess interests, but must hold ABS
interests or tax exempt municipal securities unhedged in an amount that satisfies the
minimum risk retention requirements applicable to such retained risk.
The final rule does not include the requirement that the tender option bonds issued
by a qualified tender option entity be eligible assets under Rule 2a-7 under the Investment
Company Act. The agencies were persuaded by commenters that analyzing compliance
with such a requirement would involve an assessment of information that might not be
available to sponsors and was unnecessary given the other conditions to the sponsors’
ability to rely on the risk retention options specific to tender option bonds.
The agencies are adopting the proposed disclosure requirements for qualified
tender option bonds with some clarification and a minor addition. Based on comments,
the agencies have added specific disclosure requirements for sponsors that retain
municipal securities outside of the qualified tender option bond entity that are limited to
the name and form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity, the identity

253

of the issuer of the municipal securities, the face value of the municipal securities
deposited into the qualified tender option bond entity, and the face value of the municipal
securities retained by the sponsor or its majority-owned affiliates and subject to the
hedging prohibition.
Also, in response to commenters’ requests for clarification of the disclosure
obligations of a sponsor of a tender option bond issuance, the agencies believe that the
sponsor of a tender option bond that holds a residual interest that meets the requirements
of section 10(c) of the final rule should provide the disclosures required in section 4(c) of
the final rule for both an eligible horizontal residual interest and an eligible vertical
interest.
Under the final rule, the issuing entity of a qualified tender option bond must have
a legally binding commitment from a regulated liquidity provider to provide 100 percent
liquidity coverage with respect to all of the issuing entity’s outstanding tender option
bonds. 207 In response to commenters’ requests for certain clarifications with respect to
the required liquidity coverage, the agencies recognize that the liquidity coverage may
not be enforceable against the regulated liquidity provider upon the occurrence of a
tender option termination event. Liquidity coverage subject to this condition would
nevertheless satisfy the liquidity coverage requirement in the final rule.

207

The final rule does not require any specific form of liquidity coverage. Provided that
the liquidity coverage will cover an amount sufficient to pay 100 percent of the principal
outstanding and interest payable on the tender option bonds, the final rule permits
liquidity coverage structured as a guarantee, credit enhancement or credit support with
respect to the underlying securities or the floaters or an irrevocable put option.

254

As commenters requested, the final rule also permits the sponsor of a qualified
tender option bond entity to combine the tender option bond risk retention options with
each other and the other risk retention options under subpart B of the final rule. In any
such case, the sum of the percentages of risk retention held under each option and
measured in accordance with that option must total at least five. For example, if a
sponsor securitizes $100 million face value of bonds in a qualified tender option bond
entity and holds bonds outside the tender option structure whose face value is $3 million
or 3 percent of the face value of the bonds in the qualified tender option bond entity, it
must hold a residual interest in the structure that has a fair value of at least 2 percent of
the fair value of all ABS interests issued by the structure (the 3 percent plus the 2 percent
when aggregated equal 5 percent of the fair value). The final rule does not require a
minimum amount of risk retention in any specific risk retention option, only that the sum
of the percentages of risk retention totals at least 5 percent of the fair value. The agencies
believe that permitting this flexibility better enables sponsors of tender option bonds to
use the options afforded under the final rule.
The final rule requires the sponsor to calculate the fair value of all ABS interests
issued upon an issuance of tender option bonds that increases the face amount of tender
option bonds then outstanding. The agencies believe that this approach appropriately
balances the costs of determining the fair value of the tender option bond residual interest
with the statutory requirement for risk retention. This means that a sponsor of an
issuance of tender option bonds that would like to receive credit under the final rule for
retaining a residual interest in the qualifying tender option bond entity would calculate
the fair value of the residual interest in the qualifying tender option bond entity in

255

connection with the initial issuance of tender option bonds in accordance with section 10
of the final rule and would not be required to recalculate the fair value of such residual
interest unless either the face value of tender option bonds outstanding exceeds the face
value of bonds initially issued.
C. Allocation to the Originator
1. Overview of Proposal and Public Comment
As a general matter, the original proposal and reproposal were structured so that
the sponsor of a securitization transaction would be solely responsible for complying with
the risk retention requirements established under section 15G of the Exchange Act and
the implementing regulations, consistent with that statutory provision. However, subject
to a number of considerations, section 15G authorizes the agencies to allow a sponsor to
allocate at least a portion of the credit risk it is required to retain to the originator(s) of
securitized assets. 208 Accordingly, subject to conditions and restrictions, the reproposal
(like the original proposal) would have permitted a sponsor to reduce its required risk
retention obligations in a securitization transaction by the portion of risk retention
obligations assumed by one or more of the originators of the securitized assets.
When determining how to allocate the risk retention requirements, the agencies
are directed to consider whether the assets sold to the sponsor have terms, conditions, and
characteristics that reflect low credit risk; whether the form or volume of the transactions
in securitization markets creates incentives for imprudent origination of the type of loan

208

As discussed above, 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(a)(4) defines the term “originator” as a person
who, through the extension of credit or otherwise, creates a financial asset that
collateralizes an asset-backed security; and who sells an asset directly or indirectly to a
securitizer (i.e., a sponsor or depositor).

256

or asset to be sold to the sponsor; and the potential impact of the risk retention obligations
on the access of consumers and businesses to credit on reasonable terms, which may not
include the transfer of credit risk to a third party. 209
In the reproposal, the agencies proposed a framework that would have permitted a
sponsor of a securitization to allocate a portion of its risk retention obligation to an
originator that contributed a significant amount of assets to the underlying asset pool.
The agencies endeavored to create appropriate incentives for both the securitization
sponsor and the originator(s) to maintain and monitor appropriate underwriting standards
without creating undue complexity, which potentially could mislead investors and
confound supervisory efforts to monitor compliance. Importantly, the reproposal would
not have required allocation to an originator. Therefore, it did not raise the types of
concerns about allocation of burden and credit availability that might arise if certain
originators, such as mortgage brokers or small community banks (that may experience
difficulty obtaining funding to retain risk positions), were required to fulfill a sponsor’s
risk retention requirement.
The allocation to originator option in the reproposal was designed to work in
tandem with the standard risk retention option. Additionally, the reproposal would have
permitted a securitization sponsor to allocate a portion of its risk retention obligation to
any originator of the underlying assets that originated at least 20 percent of the

209

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(d)(2). The agencies note that section 15G(d) appears to contain an
erroneous cross-reference. Specifically, the reference at the beginning of section 15G(d)
to “paragraph (c)(1)(E)(iv)” is read to mean “paragraph (c)(1)(G)(iv)”, as the former
paragraph does not pertain to allocation, while the latter is the paragraph that permits the
agencies to provide for the allocation of risk retention obligations between a securitizer
and an originator in the case of a securitizer that purchases assets from an originator.

257

underlying assets in the pool. The amount of the retention interest held by each
originator that was allocated credit risk in accordance with the reproposal was required to
be at least 20 percent, but not in excess of the percentage of the securitized assets it
originated. The originator would have been required to hold its allocated share of the risk
retention obligation in the same manner as would have been required of the sponsor, and
subject to the same restrictions on transferring, hedging, and financing the retained
interest. Thus, for example, if the sponsor satisfied its risk retention requirements by
acquiring an eligible horizontal residual interest, an originator allocated risk would have
been required to acquire a portion of that interest, in an amount not exceeding the
percentage of securitized assets created by the originator. The sponsor’s risk retention
requirements would have been reduced by the amount allocated to the originator. The
sponsor would have had to provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors (and the
appropriate regulators upon request) the name and form of organization of any originator that
will acquire and retain (or has acquired and retained) an interest in the transaction, including
a description of the form, amount, and nature of the interest (e.g., senior or subordinated), as
well as the method of payment for such interest. Finally, the reproposal would have made

the sponsor responsible for any failure of an originator to abide by the transfer, hedging,
and financing restrictions included in the proposed rule.
Comments on the allocation to originator proposal focused on the 20 percent
threshold for allocation, the requirement that an originator to which risk retention was
allocated share pro rata in all of the losses allocated to the type of interest (i.e., horizontal
or vertical) it holds rather than only the losses on assets that it originated, and the
definition of originator. Some of the commenters requested that the 20 percent minimum

258

should be deleted and that it would hurt smaller originators while one commenter
supported the limit and asserted that it protected smaller originators. Comments as to the
required pro rata sharing by the originator included an analysis that because securitization
tranches are developed so that tranche holders share pari passu in losses, it would cause
unnecessary complexity to limit an originator’s interests to the loans that it had
originated. Finally, a commenter asserted that the definition of “originator” ought to
include parties that purchase assets from entities that create the assets.
2. Final Rule
The agencies have carefully considered the concerns raised by commenters with
respect to the reproposal on allocation to originators. For the reasons discussed below,
the agencies have concluded that the changes to the reproposal suggested by the
commenters are not necessary or appropriate. Therefore, the agencies are adopting the
proposed allocation to originator provision with minor drafting corrections and changes,
as discussed below.
The only modifications to this option from that proposed in the reproposal are a
drafting correction and changes to the formulation in section 11(a)(1)(ii) of the rule of the
limit on how much of its risk retention obligation a sponsor may allocate to an originator.
These changes to section 11(a)(1)(ii) of the rule reflect that no fair value computation is
required for a vertical interest (discussed above in Part III.B.1 of this Supplementary
Information) and, consequently, that in certain circumstances the fair value of the
retained interest as a percentage of all ABS interests issued in the securitization
transaction may not be determined. This change to the text of section 11(a)(1)(ii) of the

259

rule does not result in any substantive change to the allocation to originator provisions
contained in the reproposal.
While section 11(a)(1)(iv) is unchanged from the reproposal, it should be noted
that the amount that is required to be paid by the originator might need to be calculated
differently from how this amount would have been calculated under the reproposal. In
the event that the fair value of all ABS interests issued in a securitization transaction is
not calculated, which would be the case if the sponsor opted for all of its required risk
retention to be held as eligible vertical interests and one or more classes of ABS interests
were not sold to investors, the amount by which the sponsor’s risk retention is reduced by
the sale of a portion thereof to an originator will not be determinable from the
calculations required by section 4 of the rule. In this circumstance, the agencies would
expect that the value of the retained portion of any unsold tranches for purposes of
section 11 of the rule will be determined on a reasonable basis by the sponsor and the
originator.
The agencies note that the reference in section 11(a)(1)(ii) of the rule to the
interest retained by the sponsor refers to the amount of the interest required to be retained
by the sponsor before giving effect to any sale to an originator. Similarly, the provision
in section 11(a)(2) of the rule that a sponsor disclose the percentage of the interest sold to
an originator is intended to require calculation of such percentage based on the sponsor’s
risk retention amount before any sale to an originator.
The rule, like the proposal, requires that an originator to which a portion of the
sponsor’s risk retention obligation is allocated acquire and retain eligible vertical interests
or eligible horizontal residual interests in the same manner as would have been retained

260

by the sponsor. As under the reproposed rule, this condition will require an originator to
acquire horizontal and vertical interests in the securitization transaction in the same
proportion as the interests originally to be retained by the sponsor. This requirement
helps to align the interests of originators and sponsors, as both will face the same
likelihood and degree of losses if the securitized assets begin to default. In addition, if
originators were permitted to retain their share of the sponsor’s risk retention obligation
in a proportion that is different from the sponsor’s mix of the vertical and horizontal
interests, investor and regulatory monitoring of risk retention compliance could become
very complex.
As under the reproposal, the rule requires a sponsor that uses an eligible
horizontal cash reserve account and desires to allocate a portion of its risk retention
obligations to an originator to allocate a portion of the interest the sponsor holds in such
account to the originator. Such allocation may be effected by any method that results in
the sponsor and each originator to which any retention is allocated sharing, directly or
indirectly, on a pari passu basis in one or more eligible horizontal residual accounts. For
example, (1) the originator may deposit into the sponsor-established account funds in the
amount of the originator’s share of the sponsor’s risk retention obligations, in
replacement of a like amount of the funds originally deposited by the sponsor, or (2) the
originator may create a separate horizontal reserve account in the amount of its share of
the sponsor’s risk retention obligations, in substitution for a like amount of funds in the
sponsor’s reserve account. If an originator establishes a separate account, such account
must share pari passu with the sponsor’s eligible horizontal reserve account (and any

261

other originator’s eligible horizontal reserve account) in amounts released to satisfy
amounts due on ABS interests.
The rule does not modify the requirement that an originator to which a sponsor
may sell a portion of its required risk retention must have originated at least 20 percent of
the asset pool. As explained in the reproposal, by limiting this option to originators that
originate at least 20 percent of the asset pool, the agencies seek to ensure that the
originator retains risk in an amount significant enough to function as an actual incentive
for the originator to monitor the quality of all the securitized assets (and to which it
would retain some credit risk exposure). In addition, the 20 percent threshold serves to
make the allocation option available only for entities whose assets form a significant
portion of a pool and who, thus, ordinarily could be expected to have some bargaining
power with a sponsor.
By restricting originators to holding no more than their proportional share of the
risk retention obligation, the rule seeks to prevent sponsors from circumventing the
purpose of the risk retention obligation by transferring an outsized portion of the
obligation to an originator that may have been seeking to acquire a speculative
investment. These requirements are also intended to reduce the rule’s potential
complexity and facilitate investor and regulatory monitoring.
The rule does not incorporate the commenter suggestion that an originator be
allocated retention in only the loans that it originated. The operational burden on both
securitization sponsors and federal supervisors to ensure that retention is held by
originators on the correct individual loans would, for many different asset classes, be

262

exceedingly high. Therefore, the rule requires that originators allocated a portion of the
risk retention requirement be allocated a share of the entire securitization pool.
The rule does not modify the definition of originator from that set forth in the
reproposal and does not include persons that acquire loans and transfer them to a sponsor.
The agencies continue to believe that the definition of the term originator in section
15G 210 should not be interpreted to include such persons. Section 15G defines an
originator to a person that “through the extension of credit or otherwise, creates a
financial asset.” A person that acquires an asset created by another person would not be
the “creator” of such asset.
Finally, while the final rule omits the proposed requirement that a sponsor
disclose the dollar amount of the interests sold to originators because such amount may
not always be calculated, the disclosure requirements of the sponsor under section 4 of
the final rule remain applicable to the sponsor and should be construed to refer to the
required interest originally retained by the sponsor, even where the sponsor sells some or
all of its required retained interests to originators.
D. Hedging, Transfer, and Financing Restrictions
1. Overview of the Reproposal and Public Comment
Section 15G(c)(1)(A) provides that the risk retention regulations shall prohibit a
securitizer from directly or indirectly hedging or otherwise transferring the credit risk that
the securitizer is required to retain with respect to an asset. Consistent with this statutory
directive, the reproposal would have prohibited a sponsor from (i) transferring any

210

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(a)(4).

263

interest or assets that it was required to retain under the rule to any person other than a
majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor, (ii) hedging the credit risk the sponsor is required
to retain under the rule, unless the hedge positions are expressly permitted or not
materially related to the credit risk of the particular ABS interests or exposures required
to be retained by the sponsor, or (iii) pledging as collateral for any obligation any interest
or asset that the sponsor is required to retain, unless the pledge collateralizes an
obligation with full recourse to the sponsor or a consolidated affiliate.
The agencies did not receive any comments directly addressing the financing
restrictions in the reproposal. Several commenters addressed the hedging and transfer
provisions.
While some commenters supported the proposed restrictions on hedging, others
opposed the provisions as being overly restrictive, and certain commenters requested
clarification as to the scope of the proposed restrictions. One commenter advocated a
blanket exception from the hedging restriction for pool and asset level credit insurance
reasoning that such insurance reduces credit risk for the benefit of all holders of ABS
interests, and does not eliminate the retaining sponsor’s exposure to credit risk or change
the “relative distribution of risk among interest holders.” Another commenter expressed
the view that issuers of securities collateralized by “qualifying assets” should be able to
hold hedges, insurance policies and other forms of credit enhancement as discussed in
Items 1114 and 1115 of the Commission’s Regulation AB, and asserted that “interest rate
hedges, bond insurance policies, pool insurance policies and other forms of credit
enhancement form an important component of many securitization structures and provide
clear benefits to investors.”

264

Several commenters requested that the agencies clarify that the term “servicing
assets” (which are generally permitted to be held by issuers) includes hedge instruments.
One of these commenters asserted that the preamble to the reproposal indicated that the
term was intended to be defined broadly and included “interest rate and foreign currency
risk” hedges, but the definition of the term in the proposed regulation did not reflect that
breadth. The commenter expressed concern that, without clarification, issuers that used
other types of hedges would not be able to avail themselves of exemptions from risk
retention, with the result that costs would be borne by investors (in the form of less credit
enhancement) and borrowers (in the form of higher interest rates). Another commenter
requested that permitted hedging activities include “purchasing or selling a security or
other financial instrument to protect or mitigate credit risk in servicing assets for the
protection of all investors.” This commenter requested that hedges to mitigate risk with
respect to amounts due for services that are not financed as well as vehicle leases be
allowed.
One commenter suggested that the agencies consider whether the restriction
prohibiting the sponsor from transferring, selling, or otherwise encumbering its interest
for a period of time after establishing the securitization entity may have the unintended
consequence of creating a de facto agency relationship between the sponsor and the other
investors in the securitization entity under GAAP. The commenter asserted that a de
facto agency relationship between the sponsor and the other investors in a securitization
entity results in a higher likelihood that the sponsor would be required to consolidate the
securitization entity.
2. Final Rule

265

The agencies have carefully considered the comments received with respect to the
reproposal’s hedging, transfer, and financing restrictions, and for the reasons discussed
below, do not believe that any significant changes to the reproposal’s restrictions are
necessary or appropriate. Accordingly, the final rule contains hedging, transfer, and
financing restrictions that are substantially the same as those contained in the
reproposal. 211
The final rule prohibits a sponsor or any affiliate from hedging the credit risk the
sponsor is required to retain under the rule or from purchasing or selling a security or
other financial instrument, or entering into an agreement (including an insurance
contract), derivative or other position, with any other person if: (i) payments on the
security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative, or position are
materially related to the credit risk of one or more particular ABS interests that the
retaining sponsor is required to retain, or one or more of the particular securitized assets
that collateralize the asset-backed securities; and (ii) the security, instrument, agreement,
derivative, or position in any way reduces or limits the financial exposure of the sponsor
to the credit risk of one or more of the particular ABS interests or one or more of the
particular securitized assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities. 212

211

The sunset on hedging and transfer restrictions is discussed in Part III.F of this
Supplementary Information.

212

The two-part test requires that a position be both “materially related to the credit risk”
and actually offset credit risk. These concepts are often interrelated and, if significant
amounts of credit risk are offset, this may indicate a material relationship to the retained
ABS interests.

266

As in the reproposal, because the agencies believe it would not be “materially
related” to the particular interests or assets that the sponsor is required to retain, holding a
security tied to the return of an index (such as the subprime ABX.HE index) is not a
prohibited hedge so long as: (1) any class of ABS interests in the issuing entity that were
issued in connection with the securitization transaction and that are included in the index
represent no more than 10 percent of the dollar-weighted average of all instruments
included in the index, and (2) all classes of ABS interests in all issuing entities that were
issued in connection with any securitization transaction in which the sponsor was
required to retain an interest pursuant to the rule and that are included in the index
represent, in the aggregate, no more than 20 percent of the dollar weighted average of all
instruments included in the index. Such permitted positions include hedges related to
overall market movements, such as movements of market interest rates (but not the
specific interest rate risk, also known as spread risk, associated with the ABS interest that
is otherwise considered part of the credit risk), currency exchange rates, home prices, or
the overall value of a particular broad category of asset-backed securities.
In response to comments, the agencies also note that they do not believe that the
rule prohibits the retaining sponsor from benefiting from credit enhancements or risk
mitigation products that are designed to benefit all investors in the securitization in which
the sponsor is required to retain risk. For example, the retaining sponsor may benefit
from private mortgage insurance provided that the proceeds of such insurance are subject
to the priority of payments for all investors.
The agencies caution that a sponsor would not be in compliance with the rule if it
were to engage in, direct or control a series of transactions designed to add credit

267

enhancement to assets ultimately securitized by it in a manner that indirectly achieved
what the sponsor is prohibited from doing directly. The agencies believe that the hedging
and transfer prohibitions in the statute are intended to ensure that the sponsor retains
meaningful credit exposure to the securitized assets rather than credit exposure to a third
party. As a result, the agencies believe that the hedging prohibition would impose limits
on a sponsor benefitting from asset-level or pool-level insurance that covered 100 percent
of the credit risk of the securitized assets, unless the sponsor’s right to recover insurance
proceeds from such hedges is subordinated to the payment in full of all other investors.
A different approach is applicable when risk reducing transactions or instruments
cover either the ABS interests required to be retained by the sponsor, such as bond
insurance, or 100 percent of the credit risk of the securitized assets, such as municipal
bond insurance. Under this approach, the retaining sponsor would be precluded from
receiving distributions that, but for the proceeds from the insurance, would not be
available for distribution to that retaining sponsor unless, at the time of distribution, all
other amounts due at that time to be paid to all other holders of outstanding ABS interests
have been paid in full. Accordingly, until all other holders of obligations issued as part of
the securitization transaction are paid all amounts then due to them, a holder of an
eligible vertical interest would not be permitted to benefit from bond insurance on a
senior class or tranche and, thus, would be required to subordinate its interest in any bond
insurance proceeds to the payment of all amounts due to all other ABS interests.
Similarly, a sponsor would not be entitled to benefit from a pool insurance policy that
references amounts payable to a specific tranche or class of ABS interest unless, at the

268

time of distribution, all other ABS interests had been paid all amounts due to them at the
time.
The agencies are clarifying that the liquidity support provided by a regulated
liquidity provider in satisfaction of the requirements set forth in the tender option bond
risk retention option described in section 10 of the final rule or in satisfaction of the
requirements set forth in the ABCP risk retention option described in section 6 of the
final rule is not subject to the prohibition on hedging and transfer. 213 In both cases, the
liquidity support is an important aspect of the existing market practice and alignment of
interests in these transactions. The agencies note that, to the extent that a sponsor of an
ABCP conduit or tender option bond program is also the liquidity provider, a liquidity
agreement or credit guarantee would not violate the prohibition on hedging because such
an agreement would not hedge the sponsor’s credit risk retention. Additionally, with
respect to an eligible ABCP conduit, the originator-seller in its capacity as sponsor of the
intermediate SPV is subject to the hedging prohibition and would remain exposed to the
credit risk of the collateral supporting the ABS interests issued by the intermediate SPV.
As under the reproposal, because the agencies believe that they would not be
“materially related” to the particular interests or assets that the sponsor is required to
retain, hedges tied to securities that are collateralized by similar assets originated and
securitized by other sponsors would not be prohibited. On the other hand, a security,
instrument, derivative or contract generally would be “materially related” to the particular

213

Because a liquidity facility is required for the ABCP option and the qualified tender
option bond entity options, but does not itself constitute required risk retention, it is not
subject to the transfer or hedging restrictions.

269

interests or assets that the sponsor is required to retain if the security, instrument,
derivative or contract refers to those particular interests or assets or requires payment in
circumstances where there is or could reasonably be expected to be a loss due to the
credit risk of such interests or assets (e.g., a credit default swap for which the particular
interest or asset is the reference asset).
In response to comments requesting clarification as to whether servicing assets
could be hedged, the agencies are of the view that cash equivalents that are servicing
assets should be specifically limited so that they do not create additional risk for a
securitization transaction and they should not require hedging. 214 As for whether
servicing assets may include hedge instruments, the agencies note that interest rate and
foreign currency hedges are not prohibited hedges under section 12 of the final rule. As
noted earlier, the term “servicing assets” is similar to the definition of the term “eligible
assets” under Rule 3a-7 of the Investment Company Act.
Regarding commenters’ concerns that the rule’s transfer and hedging restrictions
may create a de facto agency relationship between the sponsor and the other investors in
the securitization entity under GAAP, the Commission notes, and the other agencies
concur, that a de facto agency relationship under GAAP will not be created by the
transfer, hedging, or financing restrictions in the final rule, and note that the definition of
a de facto agency relationship in GAAP relates to an agreement between variable interest
holders in an entity that restricts one variable interest holder from selling, transferring, or

214

One notable exception might arise for cash held in a currency different than the
currency of obligation for the securitization, where the amount of currency and time to
payment obligation are material from the standpoint of the securitization; however this
foreign exchange risk is more commonly hedged at the securitized asset level.

270

encumbering its interest in the entity without the prior approval of other variable interest
holders. A de facto agency relationship does not exist solely as a result of a regulatory
restriction imposed on an investor that prohibits its ability to transfer, sell, or otherwise
encumber its interest in an entity. As such, the Commission confirms, and the other
agencies concur, that the restriction in the final rule prohibiting the sponsor from
transferring, selling, or otherwise encumbering its interest for a period of time after
establishing the securitization entity does not create under GAAP a de facto agency
relationship between the sponsor and the other investors in the securitization entity.
E. Safe Harbor for Certain Foreign-Related Securitizations
Like the original proposal, the reproposal included a “safe harbor” provision for
certain securitization transactions with limited connections to the United States and U.S.
investors. 215 The safe harbor was intended to exclude from the risk retention
requirements transactions in which the effects on U.S. interests are sufficiently remote so
as not to significantly impact underwriting standards and risk management practices in
the United States or the interests of U.S. investors. Accordingly, reliance on the safe
harbor is conditioned upon limited involvement by persons in the United States with
respect to both securitized assets and the ABS interests sold in connection with the
transaction. The safe harbor would not have been available for any transaction or series
of transactions that, although in technical compliance with the conditions of the safe

215

As the agencies noted in the original proposal, the safe harbor is intended solely to
provide clarity that the agencies will not apply the requirements of the final rule to
transactions that meet all of the conditions of the safe harbor. The safe harbor should not
be interpreted as reflecting the views of any agency as to the potential scope of
transactions or persons subject to section 15G or the final rule.

271

harbor, is part of a plan or scheme to evade the requirements of section 15G of the
Exchange Act and these rules.
Under the reproposal, the risk retention requirement would not have applied to a
securitization transaction if: (1) the securitization transaction is not required to be and is
not registered under the Securities Act; (2) no more than 10 percent of the dollar value (or
equivalent if denominated in a foreign currency) of all classes of ABS interests in the
securitization transaction are sold or transferred to U.S. persons or for the account or
benefit of U.S. persons 216; (3) neither the sponsor of the securitization transaction nor the
issuing entity is (i) chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United
States, or a U.S. state, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands or any
other possession of the United States (any such state, other jurisdiction or possession, a
“U.S. state”), (ii) an unincorporated branch or office (wherever located) of an entity
chartered, incorporated or organized under the laws of the United States or any U.S. state,
or (iii) an unincorporated branch or office located in the United States or any U.S. state
(an “unincorporated U.S.-located entity”) of an entity not chartered, incorporated, or
organized under the laws of the United States, or a U.S. state; and (4) no more than 25
percent of the assets collateralizing the ABS interests sold in the securitization transaction
were acquired by the sponsor or issuing entity, directly or indirectly, from (i) a majorityowned affiliate of the sponsor or issuing entity that is chartered, incorporated or

216

The agencies note that the value of an ABS interest for this purpose would be its fair
value on the date of sale, determined using the fair value measurement framework under
GAAP.

272

organized under the laws of the United States or a U.S. state, or (ii) an unincorporated
U.S.-located entity of the sponsor or issuing entity.
Commenters on the reproposal generally supported the existence of a safe harbor
for certain foreign securitizations. A few commenters suggested increasing the 10
percent limit on the value of ABS interests permitted to be sold to or for the account of
U.S. persons. These commenters also requested that the agencies clarify that the 10
percent limit applies only at the time of initial issuance and does not include secondary
market transfers. Commenters also proposed to exclude from the 10 percent limitation
(A) securitization transactions with a sponsor or issuing entity that is a U.S. person which
makes no offers to U.S. persons and (B) issuances of asset-backed securities that comply
with Regulation S of the Securities Act.
Several commenters requested that the rule provide for coordination of the rule’s
risk retention requirement with foreign risk retention requirements, including by
permitting a foreign issuer to comply with home country or other applicable foreign risk
retention rules. In this regard, comment was made that U.S. risk retention rules may be
incompatible with foreign risk retention requirements, such as the European Union risk
retention requirements and, accordingly, that sponsors required to comply with U.S. as
well as foreign risk retention regulations could be subject to conflicting rules.
Commenters also requested that the agencies clarify how the dollar value of ABS
interests should be determined and that satisfaction of conditions to the safe harbor be
tested as of the date of issuance only and not on an ongoing basis.
The final rule sets forth a foreign safe harbor that is substantially similar to that
included in the reproposal. The agencies have retained the 10 percent limit on the value

273

of ABS interests sold to U.S. persons for safe harbor eligibility. The agencies continue to
believe that the 10 percent limit appropriately aligns the safe harbor with the objective of
the rule, which is to exclude only those transactions with limited effect on U.S. interests,
underwriting standards, risk management practices, or U.S. investors.
The agencies wish to make clear that, in general, the rule is intended to include in
the calculation of the 10 percent limit only ABS interests sold in the initial distribution of
ABS interests. Secondary sales to U.S. persons would not normally be included in the
calculation. However, secondary sales into the U.S. under circumstances that indicate
that such sales were contemplated at the time of the issuance (and not included for
purposes of calculating the 10 percent limit) might be viewed as part of a plan or scheme
to evade the requirements of the rule.
The 10 percent limit as applied to the sale or transfer of any ABS interest would
need to be computed only on the date of initial distribution of that ABS interest, not an
ongoing basis following such initial distribution. If different classes or portions of the
same class of ABS interests are distributed by or on behalf of the issuing entity or a
sponsor on different dates, the 10 percent limit would need to be calculated on each such
distribution date.
Under the rule, interests retained by the sponsor may be included, as part of the
aggregate ABS interests in the securitization transaction, in calculating the percentage of
those ABS interests sold to U.S. persons or for the account or benefit of U.S. persons.
The agencies considered the comments requesting a mutual recognition
framework and observe that such a framework has not been generally adopted in nonU.S. jurisdictions with risk retention requirements. As explained in the preamble to the

274

proposed rule, given the many differences between jurisdictions, such as securitization
frameworks that place the obligation to comply with risk retention requirements upon
different parties in the securitization transaction, different requirements for hedging, risk
transfer, or unfunded risk retention, and other material differences, the agencies believe
that it would likely not be practicable to construct such a “mutual recognition” system
that would meet all the requirements of section 15G of the Exchange Act. Moreover, in
several such jurisdictions, the risk retention framework recognizes unfunded forms of risk
retention, such as standby letters of credit, which the agencies do not believe provide
sufficient alignment of incentives and have rejected as eligible forms of risk retention
under the U.S. framework. Finally, the agencies believe that the rule incorporates
sufficient flexibility for sponsors with respect to forms of eligible risk retention to permit
foreign sponsors seeking a significant U.S. investor base to retain risk in a format that
satisfies applicable foreign and U.S. regulatory requirements, even though such dual
compliance requirements might cause a sponsor to structure a transaction differently than
it would have chosen had it not been subject to such multiple requirements.
The agencies do not agree that securitizations with U.S. persons, sponsors or
issuing entities with no U.S. offerees, or that conduct all sales pursuant to Regulation S of
the Securities Act, should be exempt from the 10 percent limit. If the rule excluded such
securitizations or sales from the 10 percent limit, a market for poorly underwritten assets
could evolve and negatively impact U.S. underwriting standards and risk management
practices.
Improving underwriting standards is one of the goals of risk retention and, for the
rule to be effective, the rule should be applied in a manner that maintains underwriting

275

standards and risk management practices in the United States. The agencies’ adoption of
the foreign safe harbor incorporates the agencies’ understanding of current securitization
markets and market trends, including the importance of U.S. investors in global
securitization markets. As securitization markets evolve, the agencies will be alert to
ensuring any such changes do not undermine the effectiveness of the rule in achieving the
purposes of section 15G. Accordingly, the agencies will monitor compliance with the
safe harbor and the contexts in which the safe harbor is relied upon. Should it become
apparent that reliance on the safe harbor has resulted in market shifts that are detrimental
to investors or securitization markets, for example where significant amounts of
securitizations collateralized by U.S. assets are conducted in reliance on the safe harbor
and such reliance undermines underwriting standards and risk management practices in
the United States, the agencies will consider the applicability of the anti-evasion
provisions of the safe harbor or will consider modifications to the safe harbor.
F. Sunset on Hedging and Transfer Restrictions
As discussed in Part III.D of this Supplementary Information, section
15G(c)(1)(A) of the Exchange Act provides that sponsors may not hedge or transfer the
risk retention interest they are required to hold. 217 However, the statute also provides that
the agencies shall specify the minimum duration of risk retention. As explained in the
reproposal, the agencies believe that the primary purpose of risk retention—sound
underwriting—is less likely to be effectively promoted by risk retention requirements

217

15 U.S.C. 78o–11(c)(1)(A). As with other provisions of risk retention, the agencies
could provide an exemption under section 15G(e) of the Exchange Act if certain findings
were met. See id. at section 78o-11(e).

276

after a certain period of time has passed and a peak number of delinquencies for an asset
class has occurred. Therefore, the agencies proposed two categories of duration for the
transfer and hedging restrictions – one for RMBS and one for other types of ABS
interests.
For RMBS, the transfer and hedging restrictions under the proposed rule would
expire on or after the date that is (1) the later of (a) five years after the date of the closing
of the securitization or (b) the date on which the total unpaid principal balance of the
securitized assets is reduced to 25 percent of the original unpaid principal balance as of
the date of the closing of the securitization, but (2) in any event no later than seven years
after the date of the closing of the securitization.
For all ABS interests other than RMBS, the transfer and hedging restrictions
under the reproposed rule would expire on or after the date that is the latest of (1) the date
on which the total unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets that collateralize the
securitization is reduced to 33 percent of the original unpaid principal balance as of the
date of the closing of the securitization, (2) the date on which the total unpaid principal
obligations under the ABS interests issued in the securitization is reduced to 33 percent of
the original unpaid principal obligations at the closing of the securitization transaction, or
(3) two years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction. 218

218

As described in Part III.B.5 of this Supplementary Information, the agencies also
included in the reproposal, as an exception to the transfer and hedging restrictions, the
ability to transfer the retained B-piece interest in a CMBS transaction (whether held by
the sponsor or a third-party purchaser) to a third-party purchaser five years after the date
of the closing of the securitization transaction, provided that the transferee satisfies each
of the conditions applicable to an initial third-party purchaser under the CMBS option.

277

The reproposal also included a provision that the proposed rule’s restrictions on
transfer and hedging would end if a conservator or receiver of a sponsor or other holder
of risk retention is appointed pursuant to federal or state law.
The agencies invited comment on the sunset provisions and asked whether they
were appropriately calibrated for RMBS and all other asset classes, and whether it was
appropriate to provide a sunset provision for all RMBS. Several commenters expressed
general support for the sunset provisions but others requested shorter time period
restrictions. One commenter suggested longer time period restrictions on certain asset
classes, while others proposed shortening the time periods and adding more flexibility.
One commenter suggested that there should be an outside time limit of no more than five
years for asset classes other than RMBS and CMBS, including student loans, aircraft
leases, shipping container leases, railcar leases, and structured settlements of personal
injury awards, lottery winnings, and other assets. A few commenters requested
clarification for transactions that do not typically have a nominal “principal balance” and
one commenter requested that the test use the cut-off date instead of the closing date for
measurement.
For RMBS, a few commenters requested that sunset occur three to four years after
closing, while another commenter requested a sunset of two years after the security is
issued. One commenter recommended that the agencies adopt a flat five-year sunset for
RMBS and eliminate the 25 percent remaining unpaid balance test. In support of a threeyear sunset after closing, some commenters requested that the RMBS sunset provision be
analogous to the FHFA framework for representations and warranties whereby lenders
are relieved of certain repurchase obligations for loans after 36 months of on-time

278

payments. One commenter requested that the sunset provisions be calibrated differently
depending on the risk associated with the underlying RMBS.
A few commenters recommended a two-year sunset provision for open market
CLOs, noting that anything longer would provide no relief given the fact that these pools
allow for reinvestment. Two commenters requested alternative sunset provisions for
student, vehicle, and equipment loans where sunset would occur on the earlier of (i) two
years after the closing date, and (ii) the later of (A) the reduction of the unpaid principal
balance of the securitized assets to 33 percent or less of the cut-of date balance and (B)
the reduction of the unpaid principal balance of the ABS interests sold to third parties to
33 percent or less of the closing date balance.
The agencies have carefully considered the comments and are adopting the sunset
provisions as proposed. In reviewing the reproposal and the comments, the agencies
considered the duration for which the rule should maintain the sponsor’s exposure to the
performance of the assets, balancing the time it might take for weaker underwriting to
manifest itself against the competing consideration that, as that time period extends, other
factors may be more influential triggers of asset default. Although the time periods
proposed by the agencies are longer than commenters generally asserted were necessary
in striking this balance, the agencies seek to establish a conservative approach. It is
expected that this approach will cause sponsors to focus on underwriting criteria on the
front end, at the time of securitization, and the agencies believe that requiring them to be
mindful of their exposure for the periods the agencies proposed will improve the
sponsor’s alignment of incentives and reinforce their focus on the performance of their
assets beyond their initial creation. Accordingly, with respect to the proposed risk

279

retention duration requirements for RMBS and for non-residential mortgage ABS
interests, the agencies are concerned that reducing the risk retention periods further
would weaken the incentive for sponsors to ensure sound underwriting.
With respect to the proposed risk retention duration requirement for RMBS, as the
agencies discussed in the reproposal, because residential mortgages typically have a
longer duration than other assets, weaknesses in underwriting may manifest themselves
later than in other asset classes and can be masked by strong housing markets. Moreover,
residential mortgage pools are uniquely sensitive to adverse selection through
prepayments: if market interest rates fall, borrowers refinance their mortgages and
prepay their existing mortgages, but refinancing is not available to borrowers whose
credit has deteriorated, so mortgages to less creditworthy borrowers become concentrated
in the RMBS pool in later years. Accordingly, the agencies are maintaining a different
sunset provision for RMBS collateralized by residential mortgages that are subject to risk
retention.
In response to commenters who, in the context of assets other than residential
mortgage loans, asked for clarification as to how the sunset provisions apply if the
securitized assets do not have a principal balance, the agencies have revised the rule to
clarify that the sunset criterion relating to principal balance would not apply to
securitized assets that do not have a principal balance, if applicable. Thus, for such
securitized assets, the rule provides that the transfer and hedging restrictions may
terminate upon the later of two years after the date of the closing of the securitization
transaction or the date on which the total unpaid principal balance of the issued ABS
interests is reduced to 33 percent of their original balance.

280

In addition, the agencies continue to believe the exemptions to the prohibitions on
transfer for CMBS eligible horizontal residual interests proposed in the reproposal would
help ensure high quality underwriting standards for the securitizers and originators of
non-residential mortgage ABS interests and CMBS, would improve the access of
consumers and businesses to credit on reasonable terms, and are in the public interest and
for the protection of investors. 219

219

15 U.S.C. 78o–11(e)(2).

281

IV. General Exemptions
Sections 15G(c)(1)(G) and 15G(e) of the Exchange Act require the agencies to
provide a total or partial exemption from the risk retention requirements for certain types
of asset-backed securities or securitization transactions. 220
In addition, section 15G(e)(1) permits the agencies jointly to adopt or issue
additional exemptions, exceptions, or adjustments to the risk retention requirements of
the rule, including exemptions, exceptions, or adjustments for classes of institutions or
assets, if the exemption, exception, or adjustment would: (A) help ensure high quality
underwriting standards for the securitizers and originators of assets that are securitized or
available for securitization; and (B) encourage appropriate risk management practices by
the securitizers and originators of assets, improve the access of consumers and businesses
to credit on reasonable terms, or otherwise be in the public interest and for the protection
of investors.
Consistent with these provisions, the reproposal would have exempted certain
types of asset-backed securities or securitization transactions from the credit risk
retention requirements of the rule. Each of these exemptions, along with the comments
and the final rule that the agencies are adopting, are discussed below. The agencies have
determined that each of the exemptions adopted pursuant to section 15G(e)(1), including
for the reasons described below and in the reproposal, satisfy the requirements described
in the preceding paragraph.

220

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(1)(G) and (e).

282

A. Exemption for Federally Insured or Guaranteed Residential, Multifamily, and
Health Care Mortgage Loan Assets
Section 15G(e)(3)(B) of the Exchange Act provides that the agencies, in
implementing risk retention regulations, shall not apply risk retention to any residential,
multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan asset, or securitization based directly or
indirectly on such an asset, that is insured or guaranteed by the United States or an
agency of the United States. 221 To implement this provision, the reproposal would have
exempted from the risk retention requirements any securitization transaction
collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan
assets if the assets are insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by
the United States or an agency of the United States. 222
Several commenters expressed support for the exemption for securitization
transactions collateralized solely by assets that are insured or guaranteed as to the
payment of principal and interest by the United States or its agencies. One commenter
urged the agencies to extend the government-backed exemptions to asset-backed
securities backed by foreign governments. Another commenter requested that the
agencies clarify that Enterprise securitizations of multifamily loans are exempt from the
risk retention requirements.
After considering the comments received, the agencies are adopting as proposed
the exemption from the risk retention requirements for any securitization transaction that

221

See id. at section 78o–11(e)(3)(B).

222

See id. at section 78o-11(e)(3)(B).

283

is collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan
assets if the assets are insured or guaranteed in whole or in part as to the payment of
principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States.
The agencies are not adopting an exemption from risk retention for securitizations
of assets issued, guaranteed or insured by foreign government entities. As the agencies
noted in the reproposal, the agencies continue to believe that it would not be appropriate
to exempt such transactions from risk retention if they were offered in the United States
to U.S. investors. Nor are the agencies expanding this (or any other exemption) to
include all securitizations of multifamily loans by the Enterprises. Such securitizations
require risk retention under the rule unless they meet the requirements of section 8 of the
rule.
B. Exemption for Securitizations of Assets Issued, Insured, or Guaranteed by the
United States or any Agency of the United States and Other Exemptions
Section 15G(c)(1)(G)(ii) of the Exchange Act requires that the agencies, in
implementing risk retention regulations, provide for a total or partial exemption from risk
retention for securitizations of assets that are issued or guaranteed by the United States or
an agency of the United States, as the agencies jointly determine appropriate in the public
interest and the protection of investors. 223 The reproposal would have provided full
exemption from risk retention for any securitization transaction in which the ABS
interests issued in the transaction were (1) collateralized solely by obligations issued by
the United States or an agency of the United States and servicing assets; (2) collateralized

223

See id. at section 78o–11(c)(1)(G).

284

solely by assets that are fully insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and
interest by the United States or an agency of the United States (other than residential,
multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan securitizations discussed above) and
servicing assets; or (3) fully guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest
by the United States or any agency of the United States.
Consistent with section 15G(e)(3)(A) of the Exchange Act, the reproposal also
would have provided an exemption from risk retention for any securitization transaction
collateralized solely by loans or other assets made, insured, guaranteed, or purchased by
any institution that is subject to the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration,
including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, and servicing assets. 224
Additionally, the reproposal would have provided an exemption from risk retention,
consistent with section 15G(c)(1)(G)(iii) of the Exchange Act, 225 for securities (1) issued
or guaranteed by any state 226 of the United States, or by any political subdivision of a
state, or by any public instrumentality of a state that is exempt from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act by reason of section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act, or
(2) defined as a qualified scholarship funding bond in section 150(d)(2) of the IRS Code.
One commenter requested that the final rule retain the full exemption for
securities issued by a state (including a political subdivision or public instrumentality of a

224

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)(3)(A).

225

See id. at section 78o-11(c)(1)(G)(iii).

226

Section 2 of the rule defines “state” as having the same meaning as in section 3(a)(16)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(16)), which includes a state of
the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other
possession of the United States.

285

state), and for securities that meet the definition of a qualified scholarship funding bond.
This commenter requested clarification that the exemption for state and municipal
securitizations would apply to both securities issued on a federally taxable basis and
securities issued on a federal tax-exempt basis. A few commenters urged that the
agencies clarify that all securities issued by housing finance agencies and other state
government agencies and collateralized by loans financed by housing finance agencies
are exempted.
After considering the comments received, the agencies are adopting as proposed
the exemption from the risk retention requirements for any securitization transaction that
is (1) collateralized solely by obligations issued by the United States or an agency of the
United States and servicing assets; (2) collateralized solely by assets that are fully insured
or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an
agency of the United States (other than residential, multifamily, or health care facility
mortgage loan securitizations discussed above) and servicing assets; (3) insured or
guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency
of the United States; (4) collateralized solely by loans or other assets made, insured,
guaranteed, or purchased by any institution that is subject to the supervision of the Farm
Credit Administration, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, and
servicing assets; (5) issued or guaranteed by any state of the United States, or by any
political subdivision of a state, or by any public instrumentality of a state that is exempt
from the registration requirements of the Securities Act by reason of section 3(a)(2) of the
Securities Act; or (6) defined as a qualified scholarship funding bond in section 150(d)(2)
of the IRS Code.

286

Regarding whether the exemption for state and municipal securitizations would
apply to both securities issued on a federally taxable basis and securities issued on a
federal tax-exempt basis, the agencies note that the text of the exemption does not
specifically make a distinction between taxable and tax-exempt securities. To the extent
that a security otherwise satisfies the requirements of the state and municipal
securitizations exemption, such security is exempt from the risk retention rule.
The agencies are exempting loans that are exempt from the ability-to-repay
requirements (such as loans made through state housing finance agency programs and
certain community lending programs) that were not separately included in the definition
for QRM (which under the statute cannot be broader than QM) and would only be QRMs
if they otherwise met the qualifying criteria for QMs. This exemption is discussed more
fully below.
C. Federal Family Education Loan Program and Other Student Loan
Securitizations
The reproposal would have exempted any securitization transaction that is
collateralized solely (excluding servicing assets) by student loans made under the Federal
Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP”) that are guaranteed as to 100 percent of
defaulted principal and accrued interest (i.e., FFELP loans with first disbursement prior
to October 1993, or pursuant to certain limited circumstances where a full guarantee was
required). A securitization transaction that is collateralized solely (excluding servicing
assets) by FFELP loans that are guaranteed as to at least 98 percent (but less than 100
percent) of defaulted principal and accrued interest would have its risk retention
requirement reduced to 2 percent. Any other securitization transaction that is

287

collateralized solely (excluding servicing assets) by FFELP loans would have its risk
retention requirement reduced to 3 percent.
Several commenters urged the agencies to expand the proposed exemption for
securitization transactions collateralized by FFELP loans to a full exemption from risk
retention requirements. These commenters asserted that a risk retention requirement
ranging from zero percent to 3 percent for FFELP loan securitizations that are subject to a
guaranty ranging from 97 percent to 100 percent means risk retention is required in an
amount greater than the loss exposure on the loans. These commenters stated that other
securitization products would receive a full exemption under the reproposal even if they
are only partially insured or guaranteed. A few of these commenters also asserted that
risk retention would have no effect on the underwriting standards since these loans have
already been funded and the program is no longer underwriting new loans. One of these
commenters urged the agencies to apply the risk retention requirement only to the portion
of the FFELP loans that are not guaranteed. 227
Commenters also recommended that the agencies accept alternative forms of risk
retention for FFELP loan securitizations. The suggested alternative forms of risk
retention include a simplified representative sample method, an exemption for on-balance
sheet transactions where the structure clearly demonstrates at least 5 percent risk
retention, initial equity contribution, overcollateralization, and unfunded forms of risk

227

This commenter suggested, as an example, that if only 3 percent of a FFELP loan is
uninsured, the 5 percent risk retention requirement should only apply to the 3 percent
uninsured portion, resulting in a 0.15 percent risk retention requirement with respect to
such loan.

288

retention. One of these commenters cited the European Union risk retention regime
which recognizes certain unfunded forms of risk retention.
One commenter asked that the agencies extend the FFELP loan securitization
exemption to include student loan-backed securities issued by entities exempt from
registration under section 3(a)(4) of the Securities Act and by entities that have received
tax-exempt designations under section 501(c)(3) of the IRS Code. This commenter
asserted that these issuers are constrained in their ability to raise sufficient capital to meet
the risk retention requirements. One other commenter requested that student loan
revenue bonds issued by nonprofit issuers that are supported by third-party credit
enhancement be exempted. This commenter asserted that investors in these bonds are not
making their investment decisions based on the credit risk and performance of the asset
pool, and that these bonds are assessed based on the creditworthiness and structure of the
third-party credit enhancement. Another commenter requested that all nonprofit public
purpose student loan providers be fully exempted from risk retention requirements. This
commenter asserted that the structure of the securitizations issued by these entities, and
the history of investor interest in security issuances by nonprofit organizations, reflect the
strong alignment of interests between the investors and sponsors of these types of
securitization transactions.
Another commenter requested clarification that the exemption for qualified
scholarship funding bonds apply to both securities issued on a federally taxable basis and
securities issued on a federal tax-exempt basis.
After considering the comments received, the agencies are adopting the
reductions in the amount of required risk retention for FFELP loan securitization as

289

reproposed. The agencies do not believe that providing a full exemption to partially
insured or guaranteed FFELP loans is warranted. The agencies believe that the
reductions in risk retention for FFELP loan securitizations described in the reproposal
reflect the appropriate level of “skin in the game” for these transactions, encouraging
high quality underwriting generally in the selection of assets for securitization and
appropriate risk management practices in post-default servicing. The agencies also
reiterate that they have generally declined to recognize unfunded forms of risk retention
and continue to do so for purposes of the final rule.
Consistent with the reproposal, the agencies are not expanding the proposed
exemptions to cover student loans other than FFELP student loans, including student
loan-backed securities issued by entities exempt from registration under section 3(a)(4) of
the Securities Act or entities that have received tax exempt designations under section
501(c)(3) of the IRS Code, because comments received on the reproposal did not provide
a basis to allow the agencies to conclude that the structures or underwriting practices of
these securitizations align the interests of securitizers with the interests of investors such
that an exemption would be appropriate under section 15G(c)(1)(G) or section 15G(e) of
the Exchange Act. The agencies are concerned that an exemption for sponsors of student
loan-backed securities issued by entities exempt from registration under section 3(a)(4) of
the Securities Act or entities that receive tax exempt designations under section 501(c)(3)
of the IRS Code would permit evasion of the rule through the use of an entity that meets
the requirements of such exemption, but whose sole purpose is the issuance of ABS
interests. Regarding whether the exemption for qualified scholarship funding bonds
would apply to both securities issued on a federally taxable basis and securities issued on

290

a federal tax-exempt basis, the agencies note that the text of the exemption does not
specifically make a distinction between taxable and tax-exempt securities. To the extent
a security satisfies the requirements of the qualified scholarship funding bond exemption
in the rule, such security is exempt from the risk retention rule. The agencies believe that
there is not sufficient justification to provide an exemption for bonds that may have some
similarities to a qualified scholarship funding bond, but do not meet the statutory
definition.
D. Certain Public Utility Securitizations
The reproposal would have provided an exemption from risk retention for utility
legislative securitizations. Specifically, the reproposal would have exempted any
securitization transaction where the ABS interests are issued by an entity that is wholly
owned, directly or indirectly, by an investor-owned utility company that is subject to the
regulatory authority of a state public utility commission or other appropriate state agency.
Additionally, ABS interests issued in an exempted utility legislative securitization
transaction would have been required to be secured by the intangible property right to
collect charges for the recovery of specified costs and such other assets of the issuing
entity. The reproposal would have defined “specified cost” to mean any cost identified
by a state legislature as appropriate for recovery through securitization pursuant to
“specified cost recovery legislation,” which is legislation enacted by a state that:
•

Authorizes the investor-owned utility company to apply for, and authorizes the public
utility commission or other appropriate state agency to issue, a financing order
determining the amount of specified costs the utility will be allowed to recover;

291

•

Provides that pursuant to a financing order, the utility acquires an intangible property
right to charge, collect, and receive amounts necessary to provide for the full recovery
of the specified costs determined to be recoverable, and assures that the charges are
non-bypassable and will be paid by customers within the utility’s historic service
territory who receive utility goods or services through the utility’s transmission and
distribution system, even if those customers elect to purchase these goods or services
from a third party; and

•

Guarantees that neither the state nor any of its agencies has the authority to rescind or
amend the financing order, to revise the amount of specified costs, or in any way to
reduce or impair the value of the intangible property right, except as may be
contemplated by periodic adjustments authorized by the specified cost recovery
legislation. 228
The agencies received no comments on the utility legislative securitization

exemption, and are adopting the exemption as reproposed.
E. Seasoned Loan Securitizations
In the reproposal, the agencies proposed to exempt from risk retention any
securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by servicing assets and seasoned
loans that (1) have not been modified since origination and (2) have never been
delinquent for 30 days or more. With respect to residential mortgages, the reproposal
228

The eligibility standards for the exemption are similar to certain requirements for
these securitizations outlined in IRS Revenue Procedure 2005-62, 2005-2 C.B. 507, that
are relevant to risk retention. This Revenue Procedure outlines the Internal Revenue
Service’s requirements in order to treat the securities issued in these securitizations as
debt for tax purposes, which is the primary motivation for states and public utilities to
engage in such securitizations.

292

would have defined “seasoned loan” to mean a residential mortgage loan that either (1)
has been outstanding and performing for the longer of (i) five years or (ii) the period until
the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to 25 percent of the
original principal balance; or (2) has been outstanding and performing for at least seven
years. For all other asset classes, the reproposal would have defined “seasoned loan” to
mean a loan that has been outstanding and performing for the longer of (1) two years, or
(2) the period until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to
33 percent of the original principal balance.
The agencies received a number of comments on the seasoned loan exemption
from financial entities and financial trade organizations. Commenters generally favored
expanding the seasoned loan exemption, although they differed in how to expand the
exemption. One commenter proposed that “seasoned loans” be redefined to
accommodate auto loans that have been outstanding and performing for the shorter of (1)
two years, or (2) the period until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been
reduced to 33 percent of the original principal balance. Other commenters proposed that
the exemption be expanded to accommodate certain previously modified residential
mortgage loans that have not had past delinquency events.
One commenter requested that loans with delinquencies up to 60 days qualify,
and another suggested that loans that have been delinquent and then brought current
qualify if they perform for 36 months after the delinquency. Another commenter asked
that the exception include loans that had no more than three 30-day delinquencies if the
loan is otherwise performing for five years and not delinquent at the time of
securitization.

293

Other commenters asked that the agencies permit blended securitizations of
seasoned loans with other loans that require risk retention, with the amount of risk
retention reduced accordingly. These commenters expressed concern of potentially
fragmenting the market for these loans. However, the investor members of one
commenter questioned the need to blend pools of seasoned and “non-seasoned” loans
because ABS interests collateralized by these types of assets are unlikely to appeal to the
same types of investors.
After considering the comments received, the agencies are adopting the seasoned
loan exemption as reproposed. The agencies believe that there is insufficient data to
justify expanding the seasoned loan exemption and that the alignment of the seasoned
loan exemption with the sunset provisions on hedging and transfer enhances consistency
across the provisions of the rule and better aligns the incentives of sponsors and
investors. The agencies do not believe that the period of time during which a loan is
required to have been outstanding to qualify as a seasoned loan should be different from
the period after which the transfer and hedging restrictions sunset. Nor do they believe
that loans that have at any time been more than 30 days delinquent should qualify. And,
while modifications of loans for reasons other than loss mitigation might be wellunderwritten loans, it would be difficult if not impossible to verify the underlying reasons
for a modification. Commenters did not provide examples of securitization transactions
collateralized by newly originated and seasoned loans or data or reasoned analysis to
support the assertion that such transactions would fill existing needs for financing.
Because the agencies are not persuaded that market fragmentation would result, the

294

agencies are not permitting blended pools of seasoned loans and loans that would not
satisfy the seasoned loan exemption.
F. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Securitizations
In the reproposal, the agencies proposed an exemption from risk retention for
securitization transactions that are sponsored by the FDIC, acting as conservator or
receiver under any provision of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or Title II of the DoddFrank Act. For the reasons discussed in the reproposal, 229 the agencies continue to
believe that this exemption would help ensure high quality underwriting, and is in the
public interest and for the protection of investors. 230 These receivers and conservators
perform a function that benefits creditors in liquidating and maximizing the value of
assets of failed financial institutions for the benefit of creditors. Accordingly, their
actions are guided by sound underwriting practices, and the quality of the assets will be
carefully monitored in accordance with the relevant statutory authority.
One commenter expressly supported this exemption, noting, among other things,
that it would help the FDIC maximize the value of assets in conservatorship and
receivership. For the reasons noted above, the agencies are adopting the FDIC
securitization exemption as reproposed.
G. Exemption for Certain Resecuritization Transactions
In the reproposal, the agencies proposed two different exemptions from risk
retention for certain ABS interests issued in resecuritization transactions (resecuritization

229

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57978.

230

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e).

295

ABS interests). 231 The first of these exemptions would have applied to resecuritizations
of asset backed securities that met certain specific conditions set forth in proposed section
19(b)(5) (pass-through resecuritizations). The second one would have applied only to
resecuritizations of certain first pay classes of mortgage backed securities that met the
requirements in proposed section 19(b)(6) (first-pay-class resecuritization). Under the
reproposal, sponsors of resecuritizations that were not structured to meet the terms of one
of these two exemptions would have been required to meet the credit risk retention
requirements with respect to the resecuritization transaction unless another exemption for
the transaction was available.
Under the section 19(b)(5) of the reproposal, the resecuritization ABS interests
would have to be collateralized solely by servicing assets and existing ABS interests
issued in a securitization transaction for which credit risk was retained as required under
the original proposal, or which was otherwise exempted from credit risk retention
requirements (compliant ABS interests). Second, the transaction would have to be
structured so that it involved the issuance of only a single class of ABS interests and
provided for a pass through of all principal and interest payments received on the
underlying asset-backed securities (net of expenses of the issuing entity) to the holders of
such class of ABS interests. The agencies explained that because the holder of a
resecuritization ABS interest structured as a single-class pass-through security would
have had a fractional undivided interest in the pool of underlying asset-backed securities

231

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57972-57974. In a resecuritization transaction, the
asset pool collateralizing the ABS interests issued in the transaction comprises one or
more asset-backed securities.

296

and in the distributions of principal and interest (including prepayments) from these
underlying asset-backed securities, a resecuritization ABS interest meeting these
requirements would not alter the level or allocation of credit and interest rate risk on the
underlying asset-backed securities. The agencies had proposed this exemption in the
original proposal and did not substantively alter it in the reproposal.
The agencies proposed to adopt this exemption under the general exemption
provisions of section 15G(e)(1) of the Exchange Act. The agencies noted that a
resecuritization transaction that created a single-class pass-through would neither
increase nor reallocate the credit risk inherent in the underlying compliant ABS interests,
and that the transaction could allow for the combination of asset-backed securities
collateralized by smaller pools, and the creation of asset-backed securities that may be
collateralized by more geographically diverse pools than those that can be achieved by
the pooling of individual assets.
Under the first-pay-class resecuritization exemption in proposed section 19(b)(6),
the agencies proposed a limited resecuritization exemption that would apply to certain
resecuritizations of residential mortgage-backed securities structured to address
prepayment risk, but that would not apply to a structure that re-allocated credit risk by
tranching and subordination. To qualify for this proposed exemption, the transaction
would have to have been a resecuritization of first-pay classes of ABS interests, which
were themselves collateralized by first-lien residential mortgages on property located in a

297

state, 232 and which were issued in transactions that complied with the risk retention rules
or were exempt from the rule. 233 The reproposal also would have allowed a pool
collateralizing the exempted first-pay-class resecuritization to contain servicing assets.
In addition, to qualify for the exemption, any ABS interest issued in the
resecuritization would have had to share pro rata in any realized principal losses with all
other ABS interests issued in the resecuritization based on the unpaid principal balance of
such interest at the time the loss was realized. The transaction would have had to be
structured to reallocate prepayment risk, and the proposed exemption specifically would
have prohibited any structure which re-allocated credit risk (other than credit risk
reallocated only as a consequence of reallocating prepayment risk). The reproposal also
would have prohibited the issuance of an inverse floater or any similarly structured class
of ABS interest as part of the exempt resecuritization transaction. 234

232

Section 2 of the reproposed rule defined “state” as having the same meaning as in
section 3(a)(16) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(16)). Thus,
the ABS interests that would be resecuritized in a transaction exempted under this
provision would have been required to be collateralized by mortgages on properties
located in a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin
Islands, or any other possession of the United States. See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at
57973.
233

The reproposal defined “first-pay class” as a class of ABS interests for which all
interests in the class were entitled to the same priority of principal payments and that, at
the time of closing of the transaction, were entitled to repayments of principal and
payments of interest prior to or pro-rata, except for principal-only and interest only
tranches that are prior in payment, with all other classes of securities collateralized by the
same pool of first-lien residential mortgages until such class has no principal or notional
balance remaining. A single class of pass-through ABS interests under which an investor
would have a fractional, undivided interest in the pool of mortgages collateralizing the
ABS interests would have qualified as a “first pay class” under this definition.

234

The reproposal defined “inverse floater” as an ABS interest issued as part of a
securitization transaction for which interest or other income is payable to the holder
298

The agencies proposed the first-pay-class resecuritization exemption in response
to comments on the original proposal about liquidity in underlying markets and access to
credit on reasonable terms. 235 The agencies noted that residential mortgage-backed
securities tend to have longer maturities than other types of asset-backed securities and to
have high prepayment risk. The agencies reasoned that the exemption would help
provide investors with protection against prepayment risk and greater certainty as to
expected life. The proposed exemption, however, did not divide the credit risk of the
underlying asset-backed securities and therefore did not give rise to the same concerns as
CDOs and other resecuritizations that involved tranching of credit risk. 236
The agencies proposed the first-pay-class resecuritization exemption under the
general exemption provisions of section 15G(e)(1) of the Exchange Act. The agencies
determined that the provision was consistent with the requirements of this section, given
the conditions established for the exemption. In particular, the agencies noted that the
provision limited the exemption to resecuritizations of first-pay classes of residential
mortgage-backed securities, and that it applied specific prohibitions on structures that reallocate credit risk, so it minimized credit risk associated with the resecuritized
residential mortgage-backed securities and prevented the transaction from reallocating

based on a rate or formula that varies inversely to a reference rate of interest. The
exclusion from the proposed exemption of transactions involving the issuance of an
inverse floater class addressed concerns with the high risk of loss that has been associated
with these instruments. See Id. at 57974.
235

Id. at 57973.

236

Id.

299

existing credit risk while addressing some of the commenters’ concerns with regard to
liquidity and access to credit. 237
The agencies received a number of comments on the proposed resecuritization
exemptions. The comments did not raise specific objections or concerns with either of
the two proposed exemptions, but generally urged regulators to expand the exemptions to
other types of structures including those that re-tranche credit risk. Commenters asserted
that applying risk retention to resecuritization of asset-backed securities that are already
in the market, especially where the interests are compliant ABS interests, cannot alter the
incentives for the original sponsor of asset-backed securities to ensure high-quality assets.
Other commenters stated that the lack of a broad resecuritization exemption would
negatively affect markets by making it harder for investors to re-structure and sell
existing asset-backed securities. A number of commenters stated that the agencies should
provide an exemption for resecuritizations of asset-backed securities that were issued
prior to the applicable effective date of the rule. Still others expressed the view that the
agencies could develop an exemption that would allow credit tranching in resecuritized
asset-backed securities while limiting the scope of such exemption, such as by excluding
actively managed pools, to address agencies’ concerns regarding CDOs and similar
structures. The comments were generally similar to comments received on the original
proposal.
The agencies have carefully considered the comments received in conjunction
with the purposes and requirements of the statute. As the agencies noted in the

237

Id.

300

reproposal, sponsors of resecuritization transactions have considerable flexibility in
choosing what ABS interests to include in the underlying pool of securitized assets as
well as in creating the specific structures. This choice of securities is a type of
underwriting choice with respect to those securities for inclusion in the underlying pool
of securitized assets. The agencies continue to consider it appropriate, therefore, to adopt
rules that will provide sponsors with sufficient incentive to choose ABS interests that
have lower levels of credit risk and to not use a resecuritization to obscure what might
have been sub-par credit performance of certain ABS interests. The agencies also
continue to consider it appropriate to apply the risk retention requirements to
resecuritization transactions generally because resecuritization transactions can result in a
re-allocation of the credit risk of the underlying ABS interest. Such considerations are
present whether or not the original underlying asset-backed securities were issued prior to
the applicable effective date of these risk retention rules or are compliant with the rule. 238
The agencies also note that section 15G of the Exchange Act specifically contemplates
applying risk retention to resecuritizations. 239
Taking into account these considerations, the agencies continue to believe that
requiring additional risk retention as the standard for most resecuritization transactions is

238

Section 15G of the Exchange Act would not apply to asset-backed securities issued
before the applicable effective date of the agencies’ final rule, and that as a practical
matter, private-label asset-backed securities issued before the applicable effective date of
the final rule would typically not be compliant ABS interests. Asset-backed securities
issued before the applicable effective date that meet the terms of an exemption from the
rule or that are guaranteed by the Enterprises, however, could qualify as compliant ABS
interests.

239

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(a).

301

consistent with the intent of section 15G of the Exchange Act, both in light of recent
history and the specific statutory requirement that the agencies adopt risk retention
standards for CDOs, and similar instruments collateralized by asset-backed securities. 240
The comments received in response to the reproposal did not raise any issues to cause the
agencies to expand the scope of the exemptions for resecuritizations. In particular, the
agencies do not believe that suggestions for distinguishing “typical” resecuritizations
from CDOs or other higher risk transactions could be applied consistently across
transactions.
As a consequence, the agencies are adopting the pass-through resecuritization
exemption in section 19(b)(5), as proposed in the reproposal. This exemption will apply
only if the resulting resecuritization ABS interests consist of only a single class of
interests and provides for a pass through of all principal and interest payments received
on the underlying ABS interests (net of expenses of the issuing entity). The new ABS
interests have to be collateralized solely by servicing assets and existing ABS interests
issued in a securitization transaction for which credit risk was retained as required under
the rule, or which are otherwise exempted from credit risk retention requirements in the
rule.
The agencies are also adopting as proposed the exemption in section 19(b)(6).
Thus, to qualify for this exemption, the ABS interests issued in the resecuritization must
share pro rata in any realized principal losses with all other holders of ABS interests
issued in the resecuritization based on the unpaid principal balance of such interest at the

240

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(1)(F).

302

time the loss is realized. The transaction must be structured to reallocate prepayment
risk, and cannot re-allocate credit risk (other than credit risk reallocated as a collateral
consequence of reallocating prepayment risk). While the agencies specifically invited
comment on whether the issuance of an inverse floater as part of a first-pay class
resecuritization exemption would be necessary to provide adequate prepayment
protection for investors, the agencies received no specific response to this question or
comments on the prohibition proposed on the issuance of an inverse floater or any
similarly structured class of ABS interests as part of an exempt transaction under section
19(b)(6), and are adopting this prohibition as part of the final rule.
H. Other Exemptions from Risk Retention Requirements
1. Legacy Loan Securitizations
Some commenters on the original proposal recommended an exemption from risk
retention for securitizations and resecuritizations of loans made before the applicable
effective date of the final rule, or “legacy loans,” asserting that risk retention would not
affect the underwriting standards used to create those loans. After considering the
comments received on the original proposal, the agencies did not propose to provide an
exemption from risk retention for legacy loan securitizations in the reproposal. The
agencies did not believe that such securitizations should be exempt from risk retention,
because risk retention requirements are designed to incentivize securitizers to select wellunderwritten loans, regardless of when those loans were underwritten. Furthermore, the
agencies did not believe that exempting securitizations of legacy loans from risk retention

303

would satisfy the statutory criteria for an exemption under section 15G(e) of the
Exchange Act. 241
On the reproposal, the agencies received comments from one financial trade
organization that again recommended exempting securitizations of legacy loans. This
commenter requested that the agencies provide a legacy loan exemption, because in the
case of loans that were originated prior to the adoption of the final risk retention rules, it
would not have been possible to create those assets in compliance with a regulatory
scheme whose precise terms were unknown at the time of origination.
As the agencies stated in the reproposal, the agencies do not believe it is
appropriate to exempt legacy loans because the risk retention requirements affect the
quality of loans that are selected for a securitization transaction. Therefore, the agencies
are not adopting an exemption from risk retention for legacy loan securitizations in the
final rule.
2. Corporate Debt Repackagings
Some commenters on the reproposal urged the agencies to adopt an exemption
from risk retention for “corporate debt repackagings.” 242 One of these commenters
recommended that, as an alternative, the agencies create a limited exemption for
corporate debt repackaging transactions that repackage securities that could be sold
directly to investors without risk retention, and that do not involve credit tranching. This

241

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e).

242

According to commenters, corporate debt repackagings are created by the deposit of
corporate debt securities purchased by the sponsoring institution in the secondary market
into a trust which issues certificates collateralized by cash flows on the underlying
corporate debt securities.

304

commenter also proposed additional means of satisfying the risk retention requirements
in corporate debt repackaging transactions, including the retention of 5 percent of the
underlying securities in the repackaging transaction, or the retention of 5 percent of any
class of securities issued in the repackaging that is pari passu with the securities being
issued to the investors in the transaction.
Consistent with the reproposal and for the reasons discussed therein, 243 the
agencies are not adopting an exemption for corporate debt repackagings. As stated in the
reproposal, the agencies do not believe an exemption is warranted because the underlying
assets (the corporate bonds) are not asset-backed securities. As the agencies stated in the
reproposal, regardless of the level of credit risk a corporate debt issuer believes it holds
on its underlying corporate bonds, the risk retention requirement would apply at the
securitization level, and the sponsor of the securitization should be required to hold 5
percent of the credit risk of the securitization transaction. The agencies continue to
believe that risk retention at the securitization level for corporate debt repackagings is
necessary in order to align the interest of the sponsor in selecting the bonds in the pool
and structuring the terms of the ABS interests with the interests of the investors in the
securitization.
One commenter requested a general exemption for securitization transactions in
which collateral consists primarily of unsecured direct obligations of the sponsor or its
affiliates. The agencies are not adopting any such exemption as this commenter did not
provide sufficient detail on which to base such exemption.

243

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57975.

305

3. Securitizations of Servicer Advance Receivables
Some commenters requested that the agencies provide an exemption for servicer
advance receivables. 244 According to these commenters, the servicer advance facilities
(“SAFs”) pursuant to which these servicer advance receivables are securitized create the
requisite levels of credit enhancement through over-collateralization in the form of an
equity interest in the issuing entity, that is subordinated to all other classes of ABS
interests issued by the issuing entity. These commenters indicated that securitizations of
servicer advance receivables should be exempted from the risk retention requirements
because servicer advances are payments that a servicer is required to make under the
terms of the servicing agreements, and are not originated for purposes of distribution in a
securitization transaction. These commenters also said that the fundamental goal of risk
retention – the alignment of interests in order to produce higher quality underwriting
standards – is not relevant in these servicer advance receivable securitizations, because
these servicer advance receivables do not represent an extension of credit by a lender to a
borrower, and that there is no underwriting criteria.
If the agencies declined to provide an exemption, these commenters requested that
the agencies allow the equity interests held by servicer-sponsors of the SAFs to satisfy
the risk retention requirement, and to allow the equity interest (in an SAF structured as a
revolving master trust) that supports all series of ABS interests to qualify as a risk
retention option for revolving master trusts.

244

According to this commenter, servicer advance receivables are contractual rights that
entitle a servicer to reimbursement for advances that it is required, under the terms of the
servicing agreements, to make for purposes of liquidity enhancement.

306

The agencies are not adopting an exemption from risk retention for SAFs. The
agencies believe that there is insufficient data to justify granting this specific exemption.
Furthermore, the agencies do not believe that there are particular features of this type of
securitization that would warrant an exemption under the factors that the agencies must
consider in section 15G(e) of the Exchange Act. However, as discussed in Part III.B.2 of
this Supplementary Information, an SAF that meets the final rule’s eligibility
requirements for the seller’s interest option for revolving pool securitizations may avail
itself of that option. Alternately, the sponsor of an SAF may structure its equity interest
in the trust as an eligible horizontal residual interest.
V. Reduced Risk Retention Requirements and Underwriting Standards for ABS
Interests Collateralized by Qualifying Commercial, Commercial Real Estate, or
Automobile Loans
As contemplated by section 15G of the Exchange Act, the reproposal included a
zero risk retention requirement, or exemption, for securitizations consisting solely of
commercial loans, commercial real estate (CRE) loans, and automobile loans that met
specific proposed underwriting standards (qualifying assets). The reproposal also would
have allowed sponsors to commingle qualifying and non-qualifying assets of a similar
type to receive up to a 50 percent reduction in the minimum required risk retention
amount.
While many commenters supported the ability to blend pools of qualifying and
non-qualifying assets to obtain a reduced risk retention amount, commenters also
requested that the agencies reduce or remove the 50 percent limit on the reduction for
blended pools of commercial, CRE, or automobile loans. Some commenters claimed that

307

the limit would be a disincentive for sponsors to include more qualifying assets in
blended pools (and thereby improve the overall quality of the pool) once the 50 percent
threshold had been reached. In addition, a comment was made that, because the agencies
would be imposing a risk retention requirement on qualifying assets if they exceeded
50 percent of the pool, this would be contrary to the overall proposed exemption for
qualifying assets. Other commenters supported the limit on blended pools or generally
opposed allowing blended pools of qualifying and non-qualifying assets because of the
concern that a blended pool could facilitate the ability of sponsors to obscure the credit
quality of the non-qualifying assets.
Under the reproposal, a sponsor of a transaction with a blended pool would have
to provide disclosures to investors, its primary Federal regulator, and the Commission the
manner in which the sponsor determined the aggregate risk retention requirement for the
pool after including qualifying assets, a description of the qualifying and non-qualifying
assets, and material difference between them. Furthermore, the reproposal would have
required a sponsor to either repurchase out of the pool any qualifying asset found not to
meet the proposed underwriting criteria after securitization or to cure the defects to bring
the loan into conformity with the criteria. A few commenters expressed concerns about
the repurchase and certification requirements in the reproposal with respect to pools
containing qualifying assets. A few commenters suggested that, because of liability
concerns, sponsors should not be required to make the proposed disclosures about
qualifying assets to investors. One of these commenters also claimed that the statutory
language was drafted such that such certifications should only be applied to residential
mortgages. The commenter further asserted that investors already receive sufficient

308

information about underlying collateral in the other asset classes, such that the proposed
disclosures and certifications would be an unnecessary burden, and that investors were
additionally protected by the proposed buy back or cure requirement for assets found to
be non-qualifying post securitization. The commenter also asked for clarification about
how long a sponsor must maintain records related to the proposed disclosure and
certification requirements. A commenter also requested that with respect to automobile
loan securitizations that the proposed internal control certification requirements be
allowed to be performed less frequently to reduce burden.
The final rule retains the 50 percent limit for blended pools for these three asset
classes. The agencies are concerned that reducing the minimum risk retention for
blended pools to less than 2.5 percent of the value of the ABS interests would
significantly weaken the economic incentive for the sponsor to ensure that the nonqualifying loans in the pool are appropriately underwritten. However, the agencies are
allowing a limited amount of blending, as proposed, to increase the liquidity of both
qualifying and non-qualifying assets by allowing these assets to be securitized in the
same pool.
The agencies are also adopting the disclosure and certification requirements with
regard to securitizations including qualifying assets as proposed in the revised proposal.
As discussed in the revised proposal, 245 the agencies believe that the disclosure and
certification requirements are important to facilitating investors’ ability to evaluate and
monitor the overall credit quality of securitized collateral, especially where qualifying

245

Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57986.

309

and non-qualifying assets are combined. The agencies believe that these transparency
goals are essential to the integrity of the exemption from risk retention for qualifying
assets. The agencies note that the record retention requirement for certification and
disclosure in other parts of the rule is three years after all ABS interests are no longer
outstanding. 246 The agencies are adopting the same standard for certification and
disclosures with respect to the qualifying commercial, CRE, and automobile loan
exemptions to remain consistent throughout the rule. The agencies believe this
timeframe will allow for a sufficient period for review by the Commission or the
sponsor’s Federal banking agency, as appropriate.
The agencies note the concern expressed by some commenters with respect to all
three of these asset classes that, for the residential mortgage asset class and QRM, a
significant portion of the existing market would qualify for an exemption from risk
retention, whereas in proposing the underwriting standards for qualifying commercial
loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans, the agencies proposed
conservative underwriting criteria that would not capture an equivalent portion of the
respective markets. The agencies observe that there is a homogeneity in the securitized
residential mortgage loan market that does not exist for commercial loan or commercial
real estate loan asset classes. Commercial loans and commercial real estate loans
typically focus on a common set of borrower and collateral metrics, but they are
individually underwritten and tailored to a specific borrower or property, and often
contain terms developed in view not only of the borrower’s financial position but also the

246

Sections 4(d) and 5(j) of the final rule.

310

general business cycle, industry business cycle, and standards for appropriate leverage in
that industry sub-sector. The agencies believe the additional complexity needed to create
underwriting standards for every major type of business in every economic cycle would
be so great that originators would almost certainly be dissuaded from attempting to
implement them or attempting to stay abreast of the numerous regulatory revisions the
agencies would need to issue from time to time to keep up with the changing economic
cycles or industries.
The reproposed underwriting standards established a single set of requirements,
which are necessary to enable originators, sponsors, and investors to be certain as to
whether any particular loan meets the rule’s requirements for an exemption. For the
agencies to expand the underwriting criteria in the fashion suggested by some
commenters, the rule would need to accommodate numerous relative standards. The
resulting uncertainty of market participants as to whether any particular loan was
qualified for an exemption could undermine the market’s willingness to rely on the
exemption.
While there may be more homogeneity in the securitized automobile loan class,
the agencies are concerned that attempting to accommodate a significantly large share of
the current automobile loan securitization market would require weakening the
underwriting standards to the point where the agencies are concerned that they would
permit the inclusion of low quality loans. For example, the agencies note that current
automobile lending practices often involves no or small down payments, financing in
excess of the value of the automobile (which is itself an asset of quickly declining value)
to accommodate taxes and fees, and a credit score in lieu of an analysis of the borrower’s

311

ability to repay. These concerns as to credit quality are evidenced by the high levels of
credit support automobile securitization sponsors build into their securitization
transactions, even for so-called “prime” automobile loans. Moreover, securitizers from
the automobile sector who commented on the original proposal and reproposal expressed
no interest in using any underwriting-based exemptive approach that did not incorporate
the industry’s current model, which relies almost exclusively on matrices of consumer
credit scores, loan-to-value (LTV) ratios, and “on the spot” borrower approval. One
commenter stated that the entire underwriting process must occur while the customer is at
the dealership. As was discussed in the reproposal, the agencies are not persuaded that it
would be appropriate for the underwriting-based exemptions under the rule to incorporate
a credit score metric. 247
Finally, commenters requested that the agencies clarify that the requirement that a
depositor certify as to the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to
the process for ensuring that assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities are
eligible for an exemption does not impose an obligation on sponsors to guarantee that all
assets meet all of the requirements to be eligible for 0 percent risk retention. As is
indicated by the final rule’s provision of a buyback option for non-compliant assets, the
agencies do not view the requirement as requiring that the controls guarantee compliance.
Rather, the process must be robust and sufficient to enable the sponsor to carefully
evaluate eligibility.
A. Qualifying Commercial Loans

247

Revised Proposal, 78 FR 57985.

312

The reproposal included definitions and underwriting standards for qualifying
commercial loans (QCLs), that, when securitized, would be exempt from the risk
retention requirements. The proposed definition of commercial loan generally would
have included any loan for business purposes that was not a commercial real estate loan
or one-to-four family residential real estate loan.
The proposed criteria for a QCL included determining compliance with the
following financial tests based on two years of past data and two years of projections: a
total liabilities ratio less than or equal to 50 percent; a leverage ratio 248 of less than or
equal to 3.0x; a debt service coverage (DSC) ratio of greater than or equal to 1.5x. A
QCL would need to base loan payments on a straight-line amortization schedule over no
more than a 5-year term. Additional standards were proposed for QCLs that are
collateralized, including lien perfection and collateral inspection standards. 249
Commenters generally asserted the proposed criteria were too strict in one or
more areas. One commenter claimed that the QCL exemption would have no relevance
for securitizations of commercial loans because loans that would satisfy the proposed
QCL criteria typically would not be securitized and that the agencies did not seriously
attempt to consider the historical performance of the asset class. Some commenters also
supported the submission by other commenters to allow syndicated loans meeting certain

248

Under the reproposal, the leverage ratio would have been defined as the borrower’s
total debt divided by the borrower’s annual income of a business before expenses for
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are deducted, as determined in accordance
with GAAP. See section 14 of the revised proposal (definition of “leverage ratio”).

249

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57979.

313

criteria, when held by CLOs meeting certain other structural criteria, to be exempt from
risk retention, as discussed above in Part III.B.7 of this Supplementary Information.
Some commenters requested that the agencies create multiple types of QCL
underwriting criteria to address different industries or different types of commercial
loans, for example, establishing separate criteria for vehicle fleet loans or equipment
loans in order to exempt loans meeting such criteria from risk retention. These
commenters asserted that the securitizations of equipment loans have performed well
before, during, and after the financial crisis and that such loans should therefore have
their own asset class and underwriting criteria to qualify for an exemption.
Commenters also suggested that the agencies relax the proposed QCL standards
in various ways, including by: removing the straight-line amortization criterion;
increasing the maximum amortization period beyond 5 years (up to 15 or 20 years);
allowing payment-in-kind loans; reducing retention for debtor-in-possession situations
and loans resulting from Chapter 11 exit financings; increasing the leverage ratio to 4.5
or less; and replacing the leverage ratio with a 60 percent or 50 percent debt-tocapitalization ratio. One commenter also urged the agencies to require a valuation such
as a qualified appraisal for all collateralized QCLs, noting that other proposed criteria –
such as requiring a perfected security interest for secured commercial loans – would be of
limited utility without a valuation requirement.
For the subsequently discussed reasons, the agencies are adopting the QCL
standards as proposed. While the agencies recognize that there are many types of
commercial loans to serve many types of industries and companies, it would be
impracticable to accommodate each category of loan and industry with a unique set of

314

underwriting criteria. Even applying a different set of criteria to a broader category
within commercial loans, such as equipment loans, would be under- and over-inclusive
and could have unintended consequences for the alignment of interests of sponsors and
investors. Furthermore, as the different industries and economic conditions in which they
operate change over time, such regulatory underwriting criteria could influence
originations in unintended ways. In developing the underwriting standards for the
reproposal, the agencies intended for the standards to be reflective of very high quality
loan characteristics for most commercial borrowers. To the extent that a commercial loan
is securitized, the agencies believe that risk retention provides an appropriate incentive to
sponsors to carefully consider the underwriting quality of the loans being securitized;
therefore, only those commercial loans that are of very high quality should be exempt
from risk retention. The agencies have concluded that the proposed high quality
underwriting standards are appropriate for QCLs generally, even if the standards do not
correspond to the profile of loans generally securitized in CLOs. While some
commercial loans are structured as bullet or interest-only loans, the agencies determined
that such loans are not appropriate for QCL given the deferral of principal repayment
until maturity, which can overstate the borrower’s repayment capacity as measured by the
DSC ratio (due to a lack of principal payments) and increase default risk related to having
to refinance a larger principal amount at maturity.
While commercial loans do exist with longer terms than the maximum permitted
under the underwriting criteria, the agencies do not believe such long-term commercial
loans are common, and they involve more uncertainty about continued repayment ability,
particularly when loans are made without collateral. With respect to payment-in-kind

315

loans, the agencies observe that these loans are generally riskier loans, as borrowers may
not be paying any interest in cash over part or all of the loan term. Therefore, the
agencies do not believe it is appropriate to incorporate the changes requested by
commenters with respect to term and payment-in-kind in the QCL underwriting criteria.
The agencies also continue to favor the reproposed earnings-based leverage ratio,
as opposed to a capitalization ratio, to measure the ability of a borrower to service the
debt and thus help determine the consequent riskiness of a loan. Finally, while a
commercial lender should consider the accuracy of valuation of collateral to the extent it
is a factor in the repayment of the obligation, the agencies are declining to impose a
requirement of a qualifying appraisal or other particular valuation for collateral securing a
QCL. The agencies observe that many types of collateral could be pledged to secure a
commercial loan and, therefore, mandating particular valuation methods could be very
complex and unintentionally exclusive, thereby discouraging secured loans, which are
frequently safer as credits than unsecured loans and therefore provide additional avenues
for funding for many borrowers. Additionally, a valuation requirement would increase
the burden associated with underwriting a QCL.
In addition to the underwriting criteria discussed above, in the reproposal, the
agencies proposed that all QCLs must be funded prior to the securitization and that the
securitization not allow for any reinvestment periods. In addition, if a loan was
subsequently found not to have met the QCL criteria, the sponsor would have been
required to effect a cure or buyback of the loan.
One commenter requested that the agencies allow QCL loans to be funded up to
six months after the issuance of the securitization. Some commenters also requested that

316

the agencies allow QCL securitizations to have reinvestment periods, so long as the new
loans added to the pool would either be QCLs or not reduce the QCL/non-QCL blended
pool ratio below 50 percent. Finally, some commenters opposed the buyback provision,
noting that open market CLO managers designated as sponsors under the rule are thinly
capitalized and generally would not have significant financial resources available to buy
back loans in the pools they manage.
The agencies are not adopting these commenter suggestions in the final rule. The
agencies believe that only funded loans should be recognized as QCLs for purposes of
exemption from risk retention, as there could be an adverse change in circumstances
between the closing date of the securitization and a subsequent funding date for the loan
that could disadvantage investors. Furthermore, changes in circumstances could mean
the loan may not meet the quantitative QCL requirements upon funding. The agencies
also decline to allow reinvestment periods for securitizations including QCLs. As
discussed herein and in the revised proposal, there are increased concerns about
transparency when qualifying and non-qualifying assets are mixed in a pool and an
exemption from risk retention applies to the qualifying assets. Allowing reinvestment in
addition to allowing blending of qualified and non-qualified assets could exacerbate these
concerns and could allow sponsors to increase the risk of an initial pool that had a
significant portion of QCLs in ways that would be difficult for investors to discern postclosing. Finally, the agencies are not removing the buyback requirement where QCLs are
subsequently found not to have met the underwriting criteria at origination. The agencies
do not believe that lack of financial resources of the sponsor should excuse the sponsor
from meeting its obligations to ensure a loan labelled a QCL at origination met the QCL

317

requirements. In addition, the rule allows certain underwriting errors to be addressed
through cure, which would not require repurchase of the entire loan out of the pool and
thus could be less financially burdensome for the sponsor.
B. Qualifying Commercial Real Estate Loans
Both the original and the revised proposals included underwriting standards for
CRE loans that would be exempt from risk retention if the loans met those standards
(qualifying CRE loans, or QCRE loans). As discussed in the revised proposal, the
agencies made a number of changes to the QCRE standard in the reproposal to address
concerns raised by commenters with respect to the original proposal. The proposed
standards focused predominantly on the following criteria: the borrower’s capacity to
repay the loan; the value of, and the originator’s security interest in, the collateral; the
LTV ratio; and, whether the loan documentation includes the appropriate covenants to
protect the value of the collateral.
1. Definition of Commercial Real Estate Loan
In the reproposal, a CRE loan would have been defined as any loan secured by a
property of five or more residential units or by non-residential real property, where the
primary source of repayment would come from the proceeds of sale or refinancing of the
property or underlying rental income from entities not affiliated with the borrower. The
definition would have specifically excluded land loans.
Some commenters questioned the exclusion of certain land loans from the
definition of CRE in the original and revised proposals. Specifically, these commenters
stated that numerous CMBS securitizations include loans to owners of a fee interest in
land that is ground leased to a third party who owns the improvements and whose ground

318

lease payments are a source of income for debt service payments on the loan. These
commenters suggested that the agencies clarify that the exclusion did not apply to such
loans, because these loans are included in many existing CMBS securitizations and the
entire securitization would be unable to use CMBS risk retention option due to these
loans being excluded from the CRE definition.
As explained in the revised proposal, the agencies did not take commenters
suggestion to include some land loans in the definition of commercial real estate because
of concerns, among other things, that separation of ownership between land and buildings
could complicate servicing and foreclosure. 250 However, having carefully considered
comments on this point following the reproposal, the agencies have decided to modify the
definition of commercial real estate in the final rule to address commenters’ concerns
about these land loans. The agencies have concluded that excluding these ground-leased
land loans on improved property from the definition is not warranted and so have
explicitly included them in the definition of commercial real estate so that these loans
may qualify as QCRE loans if they otherwise meet the qualifying criteria, or
alternatively, may be included with pools of other CRE loans to allow the sponsor to use
the third-party purchaser form of risk retention discussed in Part III.B.5 of this
Supplementary Information.
2. Single Borrower Underwriting Standard
Commenters generally supported the reproposed exemption from risk retention
for QCRE loans. However, as discussed further below, many commenters stated that the

250

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57980.

319

proposed underwriting criteria were too strict and requested that the agencies modify the
QCRE loan criteria to allow more loans to qualify for the exemption. In addition, some
commenters requested that the agencies expand the QCRE loan criteria for, or provide an
additional QCRE loan exemption for, single-borrower or single-credit (SBSC)
transactions involving a securitization of cross-collateralized loans provided to one or
more related borrowers. Commenters stated that these transactions warranted an
exemption because they typically have had stronger historical performance than nonSBSC CMBS transactions and due to market practice, few or none would qualify as a
QCRE loan. In addition, commenters asserted that B-piece buyers have not historically
been involved in these transactions because of the limited number of loans involved.
Commenters also asserted that these transactions are particularly transparent to investors
because they involved only a few, large loans (as compared to other CMBS transactions)
and investors typically receive granular information with respect to the loans.
Commenters asserted that risk retention for these structures would cause costs to increase
and possibly reduce access to credit for some companies without a commensurate
increase in investor protection, given the nature of the loans involved and transparency to
investors. One commenter proposed that the SBSC exemption rely exclusively on
extensive disclosure about the securitization structure and loans in the structure rather
than quantitative underwriting criteria. Commenters also proposed that only larger SBSC
deals (over $200 million in ABS interests issued) be exempted from risk retention to
reduce the possibility that the exemption would be used to effectively exempt a
significant section of the market.

320

The agencies have carefully considered the commenters’ requests for separate
QCRE loan criteria for SBSC transactions. Having reviewed information provided by
commenters as well as other information related to this market, the agencies have
concluded that it would not be appropriate to adopt separate QCRE loan underwriting
criteria for SBSC transactions. An SBSC transaction may qualify for an exemption from
risk retention, like other CMBS transactions, to the extent the securitized loans qualify as
QCRE loans, and the regulators do not believe there is sufficient support to justify
establishing separate underwriting criteria for SBSC transactions. The agencies have not
concluded that SBSC transactions as a category are of sufficiently low risk to warrant a
special exemption from risk retention. While most CMBS transactions involve
diversifying risk across types of properties, SBSC transactions generally focus on one
specific type of property (for example, loans on properties related to one brand of hotel),
which potentially concentrates and increases credit risk as compared with a diversified
CMBS securitization. In addition, because of the cross-collateralization or cross-default
provisions in these deals and the reliance on a single borrower, the failure of one loan in a
deal could cause a default of the entire securitization.
Furthermore, the agencies are concerned that it would be difficult to construct a
definition that captures an SBSC transaction in a way that would address the
commenters’ concerns while also being sufficiently limited in scope to prevent
widespread use of the option in a manner that would undermine consistent application of
the rule for CMBS transactions. The agencies are further concerned that using a deal size
threshold to reduce inappropriate use of the option could be unnecessarily arbitrary and
restrictive for smaller borrowers without providing sufficient regulatory benefit.

321

Additionally, the agencies are concerned that such a definition would inadvertently lead
to exempting from risk retention CMBS transactions with lower quality underwriting
than intended by the exemption and less stringent cross-collateralization or cross-default
features, as well as other criteria historically associated with SBSC transactions.
In addition, the agencies have concerns that the commenters’ suggested
conditions for which transactions would qualify as a single-borrower transaction or as a
single-credit transaction would allow for widespread structural evasion of the rule. A
sponsor could easily structure a CMBS transaction in which the single asset is a mortgage
loan secured by multiple properties or in which the single borrower is an SPV formed by
an entity that wants to finance a portfolio of unrelated properties.
Finally, the agencies note, as discussed further below, that the criteria for QCRE
loans has been modified in the final rule to provide some additional flexibility.
3. Proposed QCRE Loan Criteria
As discussed above, the agencies adjusted some of the QCRE loan underwriting
criteria as set forth in the original proposal in response to commenter concerns. The
agencies generally reproposed the original structure of the qualifying criteria, divided into
four categories: ability to repay, loan-to-value requirement, valuation of the collateral,
and risk management and monitoring. These sections and their associated comments are
discussed below.
The agencies received some comments that were generally supportive of the
QCRE loan criteria in the reproposal and that requested that the agencies not loosen the
criteria further because of concerns of the effect that could have on lender behavior, to

322

the detriment of investors in CMBS transactions. One commenter in particular supported
the collateral valuation requirements with respect to appraisers.
A number of commenters said the QCRE loan criteria were generally too
conservative, noting that only a small number of commercial real estate loans would meet
the criteria and that the exemption from risk retention for QCRE loans would be rendered
impractical for most sponsors, thereby eliminating incentives to originate QCRE loans
and possibly causing funding problems, including for multifamily loans if the Enterprises
were to stop providing funding. One commenter claimed that because the QCRE loan
criteria is narrow and many CMBS transactions would be subject to risk retention, this
could cause rents to rise in the multifamily sector and slow down job creation.
Some commenters asserted that a much lower percentage of commercial real
estate loans would qualify as QCRE loans than residential mortgages would qualify as
QRMs under the reproposal, and generally recommended that the QCRE loan criteria be
crafted to capture a portion of the market similar to that portion of the residential
mortgage market captured by the QRM definition. Another commenter suggested that
the agencies modify the QCRE loan criteria to follow metrics “more typical” of balance
sheet lenders such as insurance companies and commercial banks. Another commenter
asserted that the proposed QCRE loan criteria would introduce interest rate sensitivity
into the CMBS market where it does not currently exist. A few commenters requested
that the agencies consider distinct QCRE loan underwriting standards for different
commercial real estate sectors. For example, a commenter urged the agencies to allow
for a higher loan-to-value ratio for multifamily loans than allowed under the reproposed
QCRE loan criteria.

323

Many of the commenters who generally opposed the proposed QCRE loan
definition had specific critiques or suggestions related to each of the categories of QCRE
loan criteria, as discussed below.
4. Ability to Repay Criteria and Term
Like the original proposal, the reproposal included a number of criteria that would
relate to the borrower’s ability to repay in order for a loan to qualify as a QCRE loan.
The borrower would have been required to have a DSC ratio of at least 1.25x for
qualifying multi-family property loans, 251 1.5x for qualifying leased QCRE loans, 252 and
1.7x for all other commercial real estate loans. The reproposed standards also would
have required reviewing two years of historical financial data and two years of
prospective financial data of the borrower. The loan would have been required to have
either a fixed interest rate or a floating rate that was effectively fixed under a related swap
agreement. The loan documents also would have had to prohibit any deferral of principal
or interest payments and any interest reserve fund, resulting in excluding interest-only
loans from qualifying as QCRE loans.
The reproposal included a maximum amortization period of 25 years for most
commercial real estate loans, and 30 years for qualifying multi-family loans, with

251

Under the reproposal, a “qualifying multi-family loan” would be, generally, a
commercial real estate loan secured a residential property with five or more residential
dwellings and where at least 75 percent of the net operating income is derived from
residential units and tenant amenities, but not other uses. See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at
58038.
252

Under the reproposal, a qualifying leased commercial real estate loan generally means
a commercial real estate loan secured by nonfarm real property (other than multi-family
and hotel properties) that is occupied by tenants meeting certain criteria. See Revised
Proposal, 78 FR at 58038.

324

payments made at least monthly for at least 10 years of the loan’s term. Furthermore,
payments made under the loan agreement would be required to be based on a straight-line
amortization of principal and interest over the amortization period (up to the maximum
allowed amortization period, noted above). The minimum loan term could be no less
than 10 years and no deferral of repayment of principal or interest could be permitted.
A number of commenters objected to the agencies’ reproposed DSC ratios as too
conservative, or suggested eliminating or changing the DSC ratio criteria. Some
commenters suggested lowering qualifying DSC ratios to a range between 1.25x and
1.5x, or establishing criteria similar to those used by Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to fund
multifamily real estate loans. However, a commenter expressed concern that the
reproposed QCRE loan criteria unduly loosened the standard and supported increasing
the DSC ratio to 2.4x. A commenter claimed that the DSC and LTV criteria, without
taking into consideration other characteristics of a property, would lead to an
inappropriate assessment of risk, and that each commercial real estate property has a
unique risk profile.
Some commenters supported removing the proposed requirement to examine two
years of past borrower data or replacing it with two years of property data, as they stated
that many new CRE loans involve stabilized properties purchased by new SPVs and the
SPVs would not have two years of historical data. In addition, as these loans are
generally non-recourse (or are made to SPVs whose only asset is the subject real estate),
only the property and income stream from the property are available to satisfy the loan
obligation.

325

Many commenters supported the requirement for fixed interest rate loans for
QCRE loans. However, some commenters suggested expanding the types of derivatives
allowed to convert a floating rate into a fixed rate through a rate cap derivative. Some
commenters also supported the restrictions on deferrals of principal and interest.
However, other commenters supported allowing interest-only loans if those loans had a
lower LTV ratio (such at 50 percent).
Many commenters objected to the minimum length and amortization of QCRE
loans. These commenters said that 3, 5, and 7-year CRE loans have become common in
the industry, and therefore asserted that the proposed minimum 10-year term criterion
would inappropriately disqualify numerous loans without much regulatory benefit. A
commenter asserted, for example, that default and delinquency data demonstrates that
loan term does not materially factor into or increase the likelihood of loss for CMBS
investors. Another commenter asserted that the loss rate for shorter term loans is better
than for 10-year loans. For similar reasons, these commenters also supported a longer
amortization period for QCRE loans, up to 30 years. Other commenters, however,
requested that the agencies continue to disqualify interest-only loans from QCRE loans
and also to maintain the minimum term at 10 years.
After carefully considering the comments on the underwriting criteria for QCRE
loans, the agencies are adopting in the final rule QCRE loan criteria similar to those in
the reproposal, with some modifications to address some commenter concerns. The
agencies are not changing the DSC ratios from the reproposal, because the agencies
believe reducing these requirements would inappropriately allow riskier loans to qualify
for a complete exemption from risk retention. As noted in the reproposal, these criteria

326

are consistent with the Federal banking agencies’ historical standards for conservative
CRE lending. 253
The agencies are also retaining the requirement not to include interest-only loans
or loans with interest-only periods as QCRE loans. The agencies believe that interestonly loans or interest-only periods distort assessment of repayment ability, increase risk
at maturity due to lack of principal reduction, and may present increased credit risk, even
with a lower LTV ratio and, accordingly, would be inappropriate for qualifying CRE loan
treatment.
With respect to maximum amortization periods, the agencies are aware that there
are many non-multifamily CRE loans with amortization periods in excess of 25 years.
However, allowing a longer amortization period for these loans reduces the amount of
principal paid each month on the loan before maturity, which can increase risks related to
having to refinance a larger principal amount than would be the case for a loan with a
shorter amortization period. Because the agencies believe that loans with a maximum 25year maturity reflect more stringent underwriting, and believe that exemptions from risk
retention should be available only for the most prudently underwritten CRE loans, the
agencies are adopting an amortization period of 30 years for multifamily residential
QCRE loans and 25 years for all other QCRE loans. The agencies are also making a
technical change from requiring straight-line amortizing payments to level payments of
principal and interest.

253

These standards include the “Interagency Guidelines for Real Estate Lending.” 12
CFR part 34, subpart D, Appendix A (OCC); 12 CFR part 208, subpart C, Appendix A
(FRB); 12 CFR part 365, Appendix A (FDIC).

327

The agencies are also adopting a 10-year minimum maturity for QCRE loans.
The agencies believe that loans with terms shorter than 10 years, such as three, five, or
seven years, may create underwriting incentives not commensurate with the high credit
quality and low risk necessary for a loan to qualify as a QCRE loan. For example, when
making a shorter term loan, an originator may focus only on a short timeframe in
evaluating the stability of the real estate underlying the loan in an industry that might be
at or near the peak of its business cycle. In contrast, a 10-year maturity CRE loan
requires underwriting through a longer business cycle for the property, including
downturns that may not be captured appropriately when underwriting to a shorter time
horizon.
In response to comments on lack of data availability for new loans to SPVs that
recently purchased property, the agencies are making modest adjustments to the QCRE
loan criteria to facilitate loans to such borrowers. Therefore, the final rule allows
originators to use two years of historical data from the property, when the property has
two years of operating history. 254 Under this revised standard, properties with less than
two years of operating history would still be excluded from the QCRE loan standards
because new properties present significant additional risks and loans on those properties
generally should not be exempt from risk retention.
Similar to the reproposal, the final rule requires that the interest rate on a QCRE
loan be fixed or convertible into a fixed rate using a derivative product. However, in the
final rule, the agencies have expanded the allowable derivatives to include interest rate

254

In the CRE lending context, a sponsor is the party that ultimately controls the
property, such as by owning an SPV, which in turn owns the CRE.

328

cap derivatives, provided that the loan is underwritten based on the maximum interest
rate allowable under the cap, even if the loan is originated at a lower rate. The agencies
are not proposing to allow other types of derivatives because they have concluded they
are insufficiently transparent for a QCRE loan standard.
5. Loan-to-Value Requirement
The revised proposal would have required that the combined loan-to-value
(CLTV) ratio for first and junior loans for QCRE loans be less than or equal to 70 percent
and the LTV ratio for the first-lien loan be less than or equal to 65 percent; or that the
CLTV and LTV ratios be less than or equal to 65 and 60 percent, respectively, for loans
with valuation using a capitalization rate below a certain threshold, as set forth in the
reproposal. 255 As discussed in the reproposal, the agencies concluded that these criteria
would be appropriate for high quality commercial real estate loans and to help protect
securitization investors against losses from declining property values and potential
defaults on the CRE loans. 256
Many commenters recognized that LTV standards are important to ensuring high
quality CRE loan underwriting. While some commenters supported the agencies’
proposed ratios, others asserted that they were too conservative. Some commenters
suggested that higher LTV ratios (generally up to 70 percent) should be allowed in the
QCRE loan standards, that the CLTV ratio cap be removed, and that the reduction in
LTV and CLTV ratios for loans with certain valuation assumptions be removed. Others,

255

Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 58041.

256

Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57982.

329

however, suggested more conservative maximum LTV ratio criteria, including a
50 percent LTV ratio suggestion for interest-only loans, if they were to be permitted in
the QCRE loan criteria by the agencies. One commenter indicated that the highest
quality loans secured in CMBS tended to have lower LTV ratios than would be permitted
for the QCRE loan standard, and expressed concern that the agencies may not have been
conservative enough in the reproposal.
The agencies have considered the comments on LTV and CLTV ratio
requirements for QCRE loans and are adopting the standards as reproposed. The
agencies agree with those commenters who generally supported a 65 percent LTV ratio
requirement. While the agencies are not adopting a 70 percent LTV ratio requirement,
the 65 percent LTV ratio requirement still allows for 70 percent debt financing with up to
5 percent subordinated financing. As discussed in the reproposal, the agencies observe
that the more equity a borrower has in a CRE project, the lower the lender or investor’s
exposure to credit risk and the greater the incentive for the borrower to perform on the
loan. Overreliance on excessive subordinated financing instead of equity financing for a
CRE property (which increases CLTV ratios) can significantly reduce the cash flow
available to the property, as investors in subordinated finance often require high rates of
return to offset the increased risk of their subordinate position. The agencies have
concluded that a 70 percent CLTV ratio cap is generally appropriate for a low risk QCRE
loan standard, which would require the borrower to have at least 30 percent equity in the
project to help protect securitization investors against losses from declining property
values and potential defaults.

330

The agencies decline the commenters’ suggestion to reduce the maximum LTV
ratio requirement for all QCRE loans, as 65 percent is sufficiently conservative for a
QCRE loan standard given the other conservative underwriting requirements in the rule.
The agencies also decline to adopt a 50 or 55 percent LTV ratio requirement for interestonly loans. As discussed above, the agencies believe interest-only loans, even at lower
LTV ratios, present significant risks that would not meet an appropriately conservative
QCRE loan underwriting standard.
The agencies are also retaining the requirement that the maximum LTV and
CLTV ratios be lowered by 5 percent under certain appraisal conditions, as in the
reproposal, with minor technical modifications to address commenter concerns. The
ratios are only reduced if the appraisal used to qualify the CRE loan as a QCRE loan used
an income approach with a direct capitalization rate, and that rate was lower than the rate
permitted by the final rule. The final rule text clarifies that the appraisal used to qualify
the CRE loan is not required to use a direct capitalization rate. Generally, as direct
capitalization rates decline, values increase. In a lower cap rate environment there is an
increase in the amount that can be borrowed given a fixed LTV or CLTV ratio, which is
why the lower LTV and CLTV ratios would apply. In addition, to address concerns
about appraisals using excessively high cap rates, the agencies are requiring that if a
direct capitalization rate was used in an appraisal to qualify the loan as a QCRE loan, the
rate must be disclosed to investors in the securitizations.
6. Collateral
The agencies proposed to require an appraisal and environmental risk assessment
for every property serving as collateral for a QCRE loan. Commenters strongly

331

supported both the appraisal and environmental risk assessment for all QCRE loan
properties. Many commenters indicated this is already standard industry practice. A few
commenters expressed the view that the agencies were too strict in requiring specific
types of appraisals, such as an income-based appraisal using a discounted cash flow and
an appraisal using a direct capitalization rate, rather than allowing a certified appraiser to
determine the appropriate valuation method. As noted above, the agencies have made
clarifications in the final rule to provide originators and appraisers with more flexibility
in determining the appropriate appraisal approaches for a specific property that would be
used to meet the QCRE loan standards, while not restricting appraisers from using other
valuation methods that they believe are appropriate for the property. The agencies also
made a technical change in the final rule to reflect the common appraisal terminology and
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice terminology for the income
approach that is required to be in the written appraisal.
7. Risk Management and Monitoring
The reproposal would have required lenders to obtain a first lien in the property
and limited the ability to pledge the property as collateral for other loans. While many
commenters supported the first-lien requirement, one commenter supported allowing
unlimited junior liens to finance energy-efficient improvements on the CRE property
subject to the loan. A commenter requested that the agencies modify the proposed QCRE
loan criteria to take into account pari passu and junior lien loans, noting that such
modifications would not increase the risk of QCRE loans. Some commenters supported
the requirement that a borrower obtain insurance on the property up to the property value,

332

while other commenters requested that the requirement be changed to require insurance
up to the lesser of the replacement cost of the property improvements or the loan balance.
The agencies are adopting the lien requirements as proposed. While energyefficient improvements may reduce utility expenses associated with the property, the
agencies do not wish the rule to facilitate structures whereby additional financing, even if
subordinate, is obtained and thus increases leverage on the property. Regarding the
insurance amount, the agencies have concluded that a strong QCRE loan standard would
be maintained if the insurance limit in the criteria was changed to no less than the
replacement cost of property improvements, in accordance with more customary market
practice. After reviewing the related comment, the agencies determined that loan balance
was not an appropriate measurement as, in some jurisdictions, a lender may be required
to make insurance proceeds available to a borrower and, in those circumstances, a
prudent lender would wish to make sure that the proceeds are sufficient to fully repair or
replace the insured property.
C. Qualifying Automobile Loans
Similar to the original proposal, the revised proposal included underwriting
standards for automobile loans that would be individually exempt from risk retention
(qualifying automobile loans, or QALs) if securitized. As in the original proposal, the
definition of automobile loan in the reproposal generally would have included only firstlien loans on light passenger vehicles employed for personal use. It specifically excluded
loans for vehicles for business use, medium or heavy vehicles (such as commercial trucks
and vans), lease financing, fleet sales, and recreational vehicles including motorcycles.
As explained in the reproposal, the agencies did not follow recommendations to propose

333

including loans on vehicles more frequently used for recreational purposes, such as
motorcycles or business purposes, because the risks and underwriting of those loans
would be different than that for vehicles used for personal use. In addition, the
reproposed definition did not include automobile leases because, as the agencies
explained, leases represent a different set of risks to securitization investors than purchase
loans. For example, automobile resale price at the end of the lease period can affect the
securitization cash flow, which is not the case for purchase loan securitizations. 257
While some commenters supported the reproposed definition of automobile loan,
others asserted that it continued to be too narrow. Several commenters suggested
expanding the definition to include motorcycles, because often they are not used solely as
recreational vehicles but as primary transportation and because, as these commenters
asserted, motorcycle loans perform as well as auto loans. The commenters asserted that
there would be no reason to categorically exclude motorcycles from the QAL definition,
even if they could otherwise meet the QAL criteria, by excluding motorcycles from the
definition of automobile loan. They also contended that the fact some motorcycles are
used for recreational use does not lead to adverse motorcycle loan performance.
Other commenters supported allowing automobile leases to qualify as QALs and
recommended certain technical changes to the proposed QAL criteria. In particular, one
commenter supported expanding the definition to include fleet purchases or fleet leasing,
on the basis that these leases or sales are generally with corporations or government
entities with strong repayment histories.

257

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57983.

334

Another comment on the definition of automobile loan raised concerns that it
would be difficult for an originator to determine whether an automobile purchase was for
consumer or non-consumer use.
The agencies have carefully considered these comments and are adopting the
definition of automobile loans for QAL underwriting standards as reproposed. The
agencies believe it continues to be appropriate to restrict the definition of automobile loan
to light passenger vehicles employed for personal use, not including motorcycles and
other vehicles that are commonly used for recreational purposes, as well as everyday
personal transportation. While the agencies acknowledge some motorcycle loans may
have strong underwriting and risk characteristics similar to those of automobile loans, the
agencies have concluded that overall risk profile of motorcycles as a class remains
distinct from that of automobiles and, like other recreational vehicles, exhibit overall a
higher risk profile. Certain recreational vehicles may also be highly customized before or
after purchase, which may reduce resale or recovery value in case of borrower default.
The agencies also have decided not to expand the definition of automobile loan to
include vehicles used for business purposes through fleet loans, as the risks and
underwriting of such loans differ from those of vehicles used for personal transportation.
For example, a car or truck used in a business may endure significantly more wear and
depreciate much faster than a vehicle used only for normal household use.
Similarly, for the reasons discussed in the reproposal, the agencies are not
expanding the definition of automobile loan to include automobile leases. The agencies
remain concerned that the credit risks posed by leases are different than automobile

335

purchase loans, in part (as discussed above) due to resale price risk associated with
returned vehicles.
Regarding the comment on difficulties determining consumer purpose, the
agencies believe originators or dealers will be able to differentiate between types of
customers based on the existing process dealers and lenders must use to comply with
TILA, which requires disclosures be provided to borrowers purchasing vehicles for
personal use.
The QAL underwriting criteria in the reproposal included requirements regarding
a borrower’s ability to repay an automobile loan, including with respect to verification of
borrower income and a borrower debt-to-income (DTI) ratio of no more than 36 percent.
The loan term criteria included a first lien security interest on the vehicle, maximum
maturity date, fixed rate interest, and level monthly payments with full amortization of
the loan, as well as strict limits on deferral of payments and deferral of initiation of
payments. The credit history criteria included verification and minimum credit history
standards (such as no bankruptcy or repossession within the previous 3 years). The LTV
criteria impose a borrower down payment requirement equal to fees, warranties and
10 percent of the purchase price. 258
The agencies received a number of comments on the proposed QAL underwriting
criteria. Generally the comments expressed concern that very few automobile loans
would meet the QAL criteria because they would not fit existing market practices. Some
commenters asserted that because the QAL criteria would not be met in existing market

258

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57984-57985.

336

practice, the resulting risk retention requirements on automobile securitizations could
discourage new issuances and impede liquidity and consumer credit. Others asserted this
result would be unduly punitive to automobile securitizations as strong performers during
the crisis, especially as compared to the proposed definition of QRM, which would
exempt most residential mortgages from risk retention. Some commenters also offered
particular suggestions to change the criteria, as discussed further below with respect to
each category of criteria. Additionally, some commenters requested that the agencies
apply the quantitative portions of the underwriting standards on a pool basis (which
would assess underwriting standards on a pool-wide, rather than loan by loan, basis)
rather than to individual loans, noting that the homogeneity of securitized automobile
loans and their typical characteristics (not subject to interest rate fluctuations or
refinancings) would make an exemption from risk retention based on pool level criteria
appropriate. The agencies are not adopting this suggestion in the final rule and the final
rule only permits the exemption to apply to individual loans that meet the QAL criteria.
The agencies observe that section 15G of the Exchange Act indicates that the reduction
from risk retention for a qualifying asset is limited to the asset itself that is securitized,
and does not suggest an exemption for a pool of assets that meets pool-wide underwriting
criteria. 259 Accordingly, the final rule provides that the underwriting standards for QAL
must be met by each loan for that loan to be exempt from risk retention. Furthermore, the
agencies do not believe providing risk retention on a pool basis would further the goals of
risk retention and could lead to some of the transparency concerns discussed with respect

259

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(1)(B)(ii).

337

to unlimited blending of non-qualifying assets with qualifying assets. For example, an
exemption based on pool-level underwriting criteria could obscure the true credit quality
of the pool in a way that would be difficult for investors to discern because of the
potential for wide variation (and varying degrees of document verification) of the
underwriting quality of those assets in a pool that did not meet a QAL standard on an
individual basis.
1. Ability to Repay Criteria
As noted above, the ability-to-repay criteria for QALs in the reproposal included a
DTI ratio not in excess of 36 percent of a borrower’s monthly gross income. Under the
proposed QAL criteria, originators would also have been required to verify a borrower’s
income and debt payments using standard methods.
Commenters generally disagreed with the proposed ability-to-repay criteria and
requested a higher maximum DTI ratio or elimination of the ratio criterion, on the basis
that it is not typically used in current automobile loan underwriting and not using it has
not adversely affected automobile loan performance because (commenters claimed)
borrowers often prioritize payment of their automobile loans over other debt obligations.
Some commenters offered a number of suggested adjustments to the proposed DTI and
verification requirements. Other commenters suggested using a payment-to-income
(PTI) ratio instead of a DTI ratio because, they claimed, a PTI ratio is a stronger predictor
of vehicle loan performance than a DTI ratio and does not involve as many operational
burdens as a DTI ratio in providing quick approval of automobile loans, a practice
expected by automobile consumers. A commenter also asserted that the proposed DTI
requirements would put lenders that rely on the securitization markets for funding at a

338

disadvantage to lenders that do not. Regarding the verification requirements,
commenters suggested that if verification of debt and income would be retained as a
criterion, originators should only be required to verify those debts listed on a borrower’s
credit report and rely on borrower stated income without verification.
The agencies have carefully considered these comments, but have concluded that
the reproposed DTI criteria, including verification requirements, is essential to
determining a borrower’s ability to repay, which in turn is essential to a strong consumer
underwriting standard. As discussed in the original and revised proposals, the agencies
believe that a total exemption from risk retention should be applied only to those loans
that meet underwriting criteria associated with strong credit performance. A DTI ratio is
a meaningful and comprehensive method for calculating a borrower’s ability to repay a
loan, while a PTI ratio does not include other potentially significant debts that may
reduce a borrower’s ability to repay the automobile loan. The agencies have continued to
find a 36 percent DTI ratio to be an appropriately conservative measure of ability to
repay commensurate with a high quality automobile loan with low credit risk. Regarding
verification, the agencies are concerned that not all of a borrower’s liabilities may be
listed on a credit report and therefore are adopting the verification standards as proposed.
In addition, relying on borrower stated income in assessing ability to repay could lead to
overstatement of income by the borrower to obtain the loan or by the originator to qualify
the loan as a QAL. For these reasons, as well as those discussed in the reproposal, the
agencies are adopting the DTI and verification requirements as reproposed.
2. Loan Terms

339

As noted above, the reproposal included a number of criteria relating to the
automobile loan, including that the loan term be calculated based on the origination date
and loan payments could not be contractually deferred.
A commenter requested that the loan term be calculated from the date of first
payment rather than the origination date. Commenters also requested that loan deferrals
be allowed to assist borrowers with hardship events.
The agencies observe that the loan origination date and date of first payment
should usually be within a few weeks of each other, which would not materially affect the
loan term. The agencies do not view a long period prior to the first payment date as
consistent with a strong QAL standard, as it could extend the total loan term for months
beyond the limits for maturity the agencies have identified as appropriate for a QAL.
While the agencies are retaining the requirement that the contract not allow borrowerinitiated payment deferrals, this requirement would not affect subsequent servicerinitiated deferrals that may be triggered by borrower hardships described by the
commenters. For these reasons and those discussed in the revised proposal, the agencies
are finalizing the loan term criteria as proposed.
3. Reviewing Credit History
In the reproposal, the QAL criteria included an originator verification, within 30
days of originating a QAL, that the borrower was not 30 days or more past due on any
obligation; was not more than 60 days past due over the past two years on any obligation;
and was not a judgment debtor or in bankruptcy in the past three years. The agencies also
proposed a safe harbor enabling the originator to rely on a borrower’s credit report

340

showing the borrower complies with the standards. Also, the agencies proposed a
requirement that all QALs be contractually current at the closing of the securitization.
Several commenters opposed the proposed credit history criteria and requested
that the agencies use instead a credit scoring system based on FICO or a similar system of
rating potential borrowers based on credit history, generally using proprietary models.
Commenters pointed out that the automobile lending industry has used credit scoring as a
primary underwriting tool and would be unable under the QAL criteria to continue to rely
on that method for qualifying its best borrowers, and therefore would not be able to use
the criteria in order not to lose those borrowers as customers.
Commenters further asserted that the proposed credit history verification criteria
would be more burdensome than credit scoring systems, thereby increasing costs for
lenders and consumers. A commenter suggested that the criteria would result in
conclusions possibly less objective than credit scoring systems. In addition, a few
commenters claimed that the QAL credit history standards would exclude many
consumers of good credit quality while failing to identify risky consumers, whereas credit
scoring models used in the industry would more accurately discriminate between high
and low-credit quality borrowers. These commenters asserted that this result would
occur because the proposed criteria do not capture many aspects of credit history that are
captured by credit scoring models. The commenters also recommended that the agencies
adopt a “vendor-neutral” approach to incorporating the use of credit scores in the QAL
criteria to ensure that there would be no undue reliance on a particular vendor and that
credit models are already subject to regulatory oversight (including being the subject of
the banking agencies’ guidance on model validation) and are rigorously validated. A

341

commenter pointed to the FDIC’s large bank assessment rule 260 as an example of how the
agencies could adopt a vendor-neutral credit score criterion into the QAL criteria. Some
commenters also requested that the agencies define “contractually current” and base
compliance on the securitization cutoff date rather than the closing date.
The agencies have carefully considered the comments regarding the proposed
QAL criteria and the requests to use credit scoring in the criteria. The agencies recognize
that much of the current automobile lending industry relies heavily or solely on an
internally or externally developed credit scoring system to approve automobile loans.
However, the agencies do not believe that a credit score alone is sufficient underwriting
for a conservative automobile loan with a low risk of default. Furthermore, the agencies
do not believe it is appropriate for purposes of risk retention to establish regulatory
requirements that rely on a credit scoring system or combination of proprietary credit
scoring systems. The agencies are concerned that, over time, market pressures around
meeting QAL criteria or other factors could lead to distortions in the scoring systems that
do not appropriately reflect credit risk. Additionally, the agencies have broad policy
concerns with linking regulatory underwriting criteria for risk retention purposes to
proprietary credit analyses using privately developed models.
Additionally, the agencies believe that a borrower must be contractually current
on the loan obligation prior to securitization in order to have a robust underwriting
requirement. However, the agencies do not believe it is necessary to establish a
definition of contractually current, instead leaving this decision to the contract between

260

12 CFR part 327.

342

the originator and borrower. While the agencies believe a securitization exempt from risk
retention should contain only current automobile loans, the agencies will adopt the
commenters’ suggestion to require evaluation of a loan’s status based on the cutoff date
rather than the closing date of the securitization.
For these reasons, the agencies are adopting the credit history criteria as set forth
in the revised proposal.
4. Down Payment Requirement
As noted above, the proposed QAL criteria included a down payment requirement
whereby automobile loan borrowers would have been required to pay 100 percent of the
taxes, fees, and extended warranties in addition to 10 percent of the net purchase price
(negotiated price less manufacturer rebates and incentive payments) of the car.
Most comments on the QAL criteria opposed the proposed down payment
requirements. The commenters proposed eliminating the down payment entirely,
eliminating the down payment requirement for the taxes, fees, and extended warranties,
or reducing the down payment requirement on the net purchase price. One of these
commenters asserted that prime automobile loans do not require down payments
generally because vehicles depreciate rapidly and therefore, lenders generally do not rely
significantly on the value of the collateral when underwriting. Furthermore, the
commenter asserted that depreciation makes strategic defaults highly unlikely and the
short term of most automobile loans makes down payments unnecessary. As with the
verification requirements discussed above, the commenter claimed that the down
payment requirement in the QAL criteria could put automobile lenders that use
securitization financing at a disadvantage as compared to others because of increased

343

burden on consumers in meeting the QAL criteria or having more costs due to risk
retention. The commenter also asserted that down payments have far less relevance to
the credit risk of automobile loans than they do to residential loans, and that having such
a requirement in the QAL criteria would not be consistent with the agencies’ position on
the QRM definition.
As discussed in the reproposal, the agencies do not believe that an automobile
loan with an LTV ratio over 90 percent would be low-risk, and that a customer should put
some of the customer’s own cash or trade-in value into the deal to reduce risks for
strategic default and incent repayment of the loan. The agencies recognize that down
payment requirements for prime borrowers are not common in automobile lending, but
note that down payments provide an additional level of protection to lenders and
investors in automobile securitizations that ensures a low level of credit risk over time as
market conditions change.
For the reasons discussed above, the agencies are adopting the QAL criteria as set
forth in the reproposal. As explained above, the criteria ensure that QAL loans (that are
fully exempt from risk retention) are of very high quality and low credit risk, as required
by section 15G of the Exchange Act. 261 The agencies recognize that the QAL standards
are in some respects more conservative than those of the QRM definition. The agencies
observe, however, that the statutory standards for establishing QAL criteria and the QRM
definition are different. 262 Furthermore, as discussed in the reproposal and Part VI of this

261

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(2)(B).

262

See id. at sections 78o-11(c)(2)(B) and 78-11(e)(4)(B).

344

Supplementary Information, the agencies’ decisions with regard to the QRM definition
take into consideration the particular dynamics in the residential mortgage market and the
effect of that market on the economy. The dynamics in the automobile market are
different, as are the effects of the automobile market on the broader financial system and
economy, and the agencies have therefore considered the automobile and residential
markets separately, together with the differences in the relevant statutory requirements, in
establishing the QRM and QAL standards.
VI. Qualified Residential Mortgages
After carefully considering comments received on the reproposed definition of
QRM, as well as comments received on the alternative approach to defining QRM, the
agencies are adopting, as reproposed, the definition of QRM that aligns with the
definition of QM, as defined in section 129C of TILA 263 and the regulations thereunder.
The agencies are also providing an exemption from risk retention requirements for certain
mortgage loans secured by three-to-four unit residential properties that meet the criteria
for QM other than being a consumer credit, as well as an exemption to permit sponsors to
blend these exempted mortgage loans with QRMs.
The final rule also includes a separate exemption from risk retention requirements
for certain types of community-focused residential mortgages that are not eligible for
QRM status under the rule, similar to the exemptions provided from Regulation Z’s
ability-to-repay requirement. 264

263

15 U.S.C. 1639c.

264

See Part VII of this Supplementary Information.
345

The agencies are also including a provision in the final rule that will require the
agencies to periodically review the definition of QRM and its effect on the mortgage
securitization market, as well as the exemptions provided for the three-to-four unit
residential properties and the community-focused residential mortgages. Each of these
aspects of the final rule is discussed more fully below.
A. Background
Section 15G of the Exchange Act exempts sponsors of securitizations from the
risk retention requirements if all the assets that collateralize the securities issued in the
transaction are QRMs. 265 In defining QRM, the statute requires that the agencies take
into consideration underwriting and product features that historical loan performance data
indicate result in a lower risk of default. In addition, the statute requires that the
definition of QRM be “no broader than” the definition of QM. 266
In the original proposal, the agencies proposed to define QRM to mean a covered
closed-end credit transaction that meets the statutory QM standards 267 as well as
additional underwriting criteria. These additional underwriting criteria included
minimum LTV and down payment requirements, DTI requirements, and credit history

265

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(1)(C)(iii).

266

See id. at section 78o-11(e)(4).

267

Under the original proposal, QRM was limited to a closed-end first-lien mortgage to
purchase or refinance a one-to-four family property, at least one unit of which is the
principal dwelling of a borrower. In addition, consistent with the QM requirement under
section 129C(b)(2) of TILA, the maturity date of a QRM could not exceed 30 years and
QRMs would have been prohibited from having, among other features, payment terms
that allow interest-only payments, negative amortization, “balloon payments,” or
prepayment penalties. See Original Proposal, 76 FR at 24122.

346

criteria. 268 These additional criteria were developed after the agencies examined
extensive data on loan performance from several sources, 269 and were based on several
goals and principles the agencies articulated in the original proposal. 270 The agencies
also sought to implement the statutory requirement that the definition of QRM be no
broader than the definition of a QM, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act. 271 At the time
of the original proposal, the definition of QM had not been adopted in a final rule.
The majority of commenters opposed the QRM definition in the original proposal,
expressing concerns over the 20 percent down payment requirement in particular. These
commenters stated that the proposed definition of QRM was too narrow and would

268

See Original Proposal, 76 FR at 24117.

269

The agencies reviewed data supplied by McDash Analytics, LLC, a wholly owned
subsidiary of Lender Processing Services, Inc., on prime fixed-rate loans originated from
2005 to 2008, which included underwriting and performance information on
approximately 8.9 million mortgages; data from the 1992 to 2007 waves of the triennial
Survey of Consumer Finances, which focused on respondents who had purchased their
homes either in the survey year or the previous year, and included information on
approximately 1,500 families; and data regarding loans purchased or securitized by the
Enterprises from 1997 to 2009, which consisted of more than 78 million mortgages, and
included data on loan products and terms, borrower characteristics (e.g., income and
credit score), and performance data through the third quarter of 2010. See Original
Proposal, 76 FR at 24152.
270

First, the agencies stated that QRMs should be of very high credit quality, given that
Congress exempted QRMs completely from the credit risk retention requirements.
Second, the agencies recognized that setting fixed underwriting rules to define a QRM
could exclude many mortgages to creditworthy borrowers. Third, the agencies sought to
preserve a sufficiently large population of non-QRMs to help enable the market for
securities collateralized by non-QRM mortgages to be relatively liquid. Fourth, the
agencies sought to implement standards that would be transparent and verifiable to
participants in the market. See Original Proposal, 76 FR at 24117.
271

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)(4)(C). At the time of issuance of the original proposal on
April 29, 2011, the Board had sole rulemaking authority for defining QM, which
authority transferred to CFPB on July 21, 2011, the designated transfer date under the
Dodd-Frank Act.

347

constrain credit availability, especially for low- and moderate-income (LMI) borrowers
or first-time homebuyers. Many of these commenters urged the agencies to postpone
finalizing the QRM definition until after the QM definition was finalized by the CFPB. 272
As discussed in the reproposal, in deciding to propose a broader QRM definition,
the agencies carefully considered the concerns raised by commenters with respect to the
original proposed definition, the cost of risk retention, current and historical data on
mortgage lending and performance, and the provisions of the final QM definition. The
agencies examined updated loan performance information and considered the historical
performance of residential mortgage loans with respect to the QM criteria. 273 Further, the
agencies considered the potential effects of a QRM definition on credit pricing and access
under prevailing market conditions, as well as direct and indirect costs of lending that
could be passed on to borrowers and restrict credit availability. 274
The agencies decided in the reproposal to align the QRM definition with the QM
definition for several key reasons, which include meeting the statutory goals and directive
under section 15G of the Exchange Act to limit credit risk, preserving access to
affordable credit, and reducing compliance burden. Among other factors related to credit
risk, the agencies discussed in the reproposal observations that loans that meet the QM
criteria have a lower probability of default than mortgages that do not, most notably for

272

See Final QM Rule.

273

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57989-57990.

274

See id. at 57991.

348

loans originated near the peak of the housing bubble that preceded the financial crisis. 275
In addition, the agencies observed that a QRM definition aligned with QM should limit
the scope of information asymmetry between sponsors and investors because the QM
definition requires, among other things, documentation and verification of income and
debt. 276 In addition, the agencies expressed concern about imposing further constraints
on mortgage credit availability under the prevailing tight mortgage lending conditions,
including through additional criteria that could reduce the credit risk of QRMs further,
such as LTV and credit history-related criteria. The agencies also observed that the
indirect costs of the interaction of QRM with existing regulations and market conditions
is difficult to quantify and has the potential to be large, and that aligning the QRM
definition with the QM definition should minimize these costs. 277 Finally, the agencies
noted with concern that a QRM definition not aligned with the QM definition could
compound the segmentation in the securitization market that may already occur between
QMs and non-QMs. It was acknowledged that, while the agencies recognized that the
alignment of QRM with QM could also further solidify the non-QM/QM segmentation in
the market, the consequences of segmentation due to non-alignment were judged to be
more severe. 278
In reproposing to align the QRM definition with QM, the agencies expressed an
intention to review the advantages and disadvantages of this decision as the market

275

See id. at 57989.

276

See id. at 57990.

277

See id. at 57991.

278

See id.

349

evolves, to ensure the risk retention rule best meets the statutory objectives of section
15G of the Exchange Act. 279
B. Overview of the Reproposed Rule.
The reproposal would have implemented the statutory exemption for QRMs by
defining “qualified residential mortgage” to mean “qualified mortgage” as defined in
section 129C of TILA 280 and the regulations issued thereunder. 281 The agencies proposed
to align the definition of QRM with QM to minimize potential conflicts between the two
definitions and minimize burden in meeting both QM and QRM criteria. Therefore,
under the reproposal, a QRM would have been a loan that
(i) Met the general criteria for a QM under section 1026.43(e)(2);
(ii) Met the special criteria of the temporary QM definition under
section 1026.43(e)(4);
(iii) Met the criteria for small creditor portfolio loans under section 1026.43(e)(5)
or (e)(6); or
(iv) Met the criteria for rural or underserved creditor balloon loans under
section 1026.43(f).
This reproposed definition of QRM included any closed-end loan secured by any
dwelling (e.g., home purchase, refinances, home equity loans, second or vacation homes),
whether a first or subordinate lien. However, the reproposed definition of QRM would

279

See id.

280

15 U.S.C. 1639c.

281

See Final QM Rule.

350

not have included any loan exempt from the ability-to-repay requirements and not
eligible to be a QM, such as home-equity lines of credit (HELOCs) or reverse
mortgages. 282 In addition, loans exempt from the ability-to-repay requirements (such as
loans made through state housing finance agency programs and certain community
lending programs) were not separately included in the definition of QRM, which under
the statute cannot be broader than QM.
The agencies invited comment on all aspects of the reproposed definition of
QRM. In particular, the agencies asked whether the reproposed definition would
reasonably balance the goals of helping to ensure high quality underwriting and
appropriate risk management with the public interest in continuing access to credit for
creditworthy borrowers. The agencies also asked whether the definition of QRM should
be limited to certain QM loans, such as loans that qualify for the QM safe harbor under
12 CFR 1026.43(e)(1), and if the reproposed definition of QRM should include loans
secured by subordinate liens. In addition, the agencies invited comment on an alternative
approach to defining QRM (QM-plus approach). Consistent with the statutory
requirement that QRM be no broader than QM, the QM-plus approach would have taken
the CFPB’s definition of QM as a starting point, including the requirements for product
type, loan term, points and fees, underwriting, income, and debt verification, and DTI, 283
and added four additional factors: the loan would have had to be a first-lien mortgage
loan, be secured by a one-to-four family principal dwelling, and have an LTV ratio of 70

282

See 12 CFR 1026.43(a) and 1026.43(c).

283

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57993-57996.

351

percent or less, and the borrower would have had to meet specific credit history
criteria. 284 Under this approach, significantly fewer loans likely would have qualified as
QRMs. The agencies asked a number of questions about the QM-plus approach,
including whether the benefits of the QM-plus approach would exceed the benefits of the
reproposed approach to align the QRM definition to QM, taking into consideration
financial stability, credit access, and regulatory burden. 285
C. Overview of Public Comments
1. Comments Received on the Reproposed QRM Definition
The agencies received a significant number of comments with respect to the
reproposed QRM definition, with most commenters expressing support for the reproposal
that would align the QRM definition with the QM definition. Generally, these
commenters stated that aligning the two definitions would comply with statutory
requirements, minimize negative impact on the availability and cost of credit to
borrowers (especially LMI borrowers, minority borrowers, and first-time homebuyers),
and reduce potential costs, regulatory uncertainty, and compliance burden. Some
commenters specifically expressed support for retaining the proposed full alignment with
QM so that the proposed QRM definition would not distinguish between loans that
receive a “safe harbor” or a “rebuttable presumption” of compliance under the QM
provisions. Some commenters requested clarifications, expressed concerns, or suggested
modifications to the proposed QRM definition, including with respect to loans exempted

284

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57993.

285

See id. at 57995.

352

from the ability-to-repay rules under TILA, which are discussed and addressed in more
detail in Part VII of this Supplementary Information.
Several commenters opposed aligning the QRM definition with the QM
definition, asserting that such an approach would be contrary to statutory intent. These
commenters asserted that the definitions of QRM and QM have distinct and different
purposes, with the former addressing risk posed to investors and the latter addressing
consumer protection. These commenters further stated that broadening the QRM
definition would reduce the effect of the risk retention rule with respect to residential
mortgages, which comprised one of the main securitization markets that led to the
financial crisis. These commenters also expressed concern that the proposed QRM
definition would be insufficient to support the credit quality on which a stable mortgage
market depends.
Most commenters that opposed the revised definition of QRM supported most, if
not all, aspects of the QRM definition in the original proposal and recommended that the
agencies adopt that QRM definition instead. These commenters asserted that LTV and
credit history requirements are key criteria to ensure that QRMs represent a lower risk of
default and the risk retention rules offer some protection to RMBS investors. One
commenter asserted that the reproposed QRM definition is based on the same credit
reporting requirements used prior to the financial crisis and continues to lack credit
reporting verification safeguards to ensure completeness and accuracy. Another
commenter suggested that the agencies require a loan-level credit enhancement when QM
loans exceed a stated LTV ratio.

353

A few commenters expressed concern about the potential effects the reproposed
QRM definition might have on the market, in that QMs and QRMs could become the
only type of mortgage loans made and accepted on the secondary market, or that the
market may shift more towards federally insured or guaranteed mortgages.
Finally, commenters requested that the agencies clarify that the requirement that a
depositor certify as to the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to
the process for ensuring that mortgages included in a pool of QRM assets qualify as
QRMs does not impose an obligation on sponsors to guarantee that all assets are, in fact,
QRMs. As is indicated by the final rule’s provision of a buyback option for noncompliant assets, the agencies do not view the certification as requiring that the controls
guarantee compliance. Rather, the process must be robust and sufficient to enable the
sponsor to carefully evaluate eligibility.
2. Comments Received on the Alternative Approach to QRM
The agencies also received numerous comments on the alternative QM-plus
approach. Commenters generally opposed the QM-plus approach, asserting that it would
be too restrictive, impose additional compliance costs, and have a negative effect on the
availability of affordable credit, especially to LMI borrowers, minority borrowers, and
first-time homebuyers. In addition, many commenters expressed concern that a QM-plus
approach would slow the return of private capital in the mortgage market because it
would increase government and agency involvement in the mortgage market and would
make it more difficult for sponsors to assemble a critical mass of QRMs necessary for a
securitization. Commenters also expressed concern that mortgages meeting the QM-plus
standard would effectively become the primary mortgage product available, thus pushing
354

out other mortgage loans that would qualify as QMs from the mortgage market. Some
commenters supported a narrow definition of QRM as reflected in the QM-plus approach,
but generally recommended that the agencies adopt the original proposed QRM definition
rather than the QM-plus approach.
One commenter specifically expressed concern about the exclusion of secondary
liens from the QM-plus approach, asserting that secondary liens facilitate credit to
borrowers and benefit the economy. Another commenter asserted that because the QMplus approach was described only in the preamble, there was insufficient information to
determine how the QM-plus approach would be implemented. Some commenters
requested specific changes if the agencies were to go forward with the QM-plus
approach, including a lower down payment requirement, the exclusion of piggyback
loans, and the inclusion of credit scores.
D. Summary and Analysis of Final QRM Definition
1. Alignment of QRM with QM
After carefully considering the comments received, the agencies are adopting a
definition of QRM that is aligned with the definition of QM, with some modifications.
Accordingly, the final rule defines a QRM to mean a QM, as defined under section 129C
of TILA and the regulations issued thereunder, as may be amended from time to time.
The agencies also believe it is necessary to periodically review the QRM definition to
take into account developments in the residential mortgage market, as well as the results
of the CFPB’s five-year review of the ability-to-repay rules and the QM definition, which

355

is required under section 1022(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act. 286 Therefore, the final rule also
includes a provision that requires the agencies to conduct a periodic review of the
definition of QRM, which is discussed more fully below.
The agencies have declined to adopt the QM-plus approach or the approach from
the original proposal. While the additional requirements in those two approaches may
include useful factors in determining the probability of mortgage default, these additional
credit overlays may have ramifications for the availability of credit that many
commenters asserted were not outweighed by the corresponding reductions in the
likelihood of default from including these determinants in the QRM definition. The
agencies are concerned about the prospect of imposing potential additional constraints on
mortgage credit availability at this time, especially as such constraints might
disproportionately affect LMI, minority, or first-time homebuyers.
The agencies continue to believe that a QRM definition aligned with the
definition of QM meets the statutory goals and directive of section 15G of the Exchange
Act to limit credit risk and promote sound underwriting. At the same time, the agencies
believe this definition will also meet the important goals of preserving access to
affordable credit for various types of borrowers and facilitating the return of private
capital to the mortgage market. Furthermore, the agencies believe this definition
appropriately minimizes regulatory compliance burdens in the origination of residential
mortgage loans. The final definition of QRM does not incorporate either an LTV ratio
requirement or standards related to a borrower’s credit history, such as those in the

286

See 12 U.S.C. § 5512.

356

alternative QM-plus approach discussed in the reproposal. As the agencies explained in
the reproposal, although credit history and LTV ratio are significant factors in
determining the probability of mortgage default and are important aspects of prudent
underwriting, on balance, the agencies believe policy considerations weigh in favor of
aligning QRM with QM at this time.
Consistent with the discussion in the reproposal, the agencies believe that a QRM
definition that is aligned with the QM definition meets the statutory requirement to take
into consideration underwriting and product features that historical loan performance data
indicate result in a lower risk of default. 287 The criteria of the QM definition support this
determination. The QM criteria are structured to help ensure that borrowers are offered
and receive residential mortgage loans that borrowers can afford. For example, the QM
definition requires full documentation and verification of consumers’ debt and income,
and generally requires borrowers to meet a DTI threshold of 43 percent or less, which
helps to address certain underwriting deficiencies, such as the existence of subordinate
liens, and may help to reduce incidents of mortgage fraud. The QM definition also
restricts the use of certain product features, such as negative amortization, interest-only
and balloon payments (except as provided under special definitions available only to
small portfolio creditors) that historical data have shown correlate to higher rates of
default. As discussed in the reproposal, formal statistical models indicate that borrowers
with mortgages that do not meet these aspects of the QM definition rule exhibit higher

287

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)(4).

357

probabilities of default. 288 Consistent with these statistical models, historical data
indicate that borrowers with mortgages that meet the QM criteria have lower probabilities
of default than those with mortgages that do not meet the criteria. 289
The agencies continue to believe that aligning the QRM and QM definitions at
this time will help promote access to affordable credit by minimizing additional
regulatory burden and compliance cost and facilitating the return of private capital to the
mortgage market. Although mortgage lending conditions appear to have been easing
gradually for several quarters, standards overall remain tight, especially for borrowers
with lower credit scores or fewer funds for a down payment. In the July 2014 Senior
Loan Officer Opinion Survey of Bank Lending Practices, approximately a fourth of all
banks surveyed reported that they had eased their standards for prime residential
mortgages in the second quarter of 2014. 290 However, approximately half of the banks
surveyed reported that their standards for prime conforming residential mortgages were
tighter than the midpoint of their longer-term ranges. Even more lenders reported levels
of standards that were tighter than historical averages for jumbo, nontraditional, and
subprime mortgages. Likewise, the Mortgage Bankers Association’s index of mortgage

288

See Shane M. Sherlund, “The Past, Present, and Future of Subprime Mortgages,”
Finance and Economics Discussion Series, Paper 2008-63 available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/pubs/feds/2008/200863/200863pap.pdf; Ronel Elul,
Nicholas S. Souleles, Souphala Chomsisengphet, Dennis Glennon, and Robert Hunt.
“What ‘Triggers’ Mortgage Default?” American Economic Review 100 (May 2010):
490-494.
289

For further detail, see Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57989-57990.

290

Senior Loan Officer Opinion Survey of Bank Lending Practices, Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System (July 2014), available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/SnLoanSurvey/201408/default.htm.

358

credit availability—designed to capture the credit risk profile of mortgages being offered
in the market place—edged up over the first few months of 2014, suggesting that
mortgage credit conditions continue to improve. Nonetheless, comparisons of this index
to a roughly equivalent proxy for lending conditions in 2004 suggest that credit
availability is quite restricted.
An additional manifestation, in part, of tight credit standards is the subdued level
of mortgage and housing activity. Mortgage applications in the first six months of 2014,
as measured by the Mortgage Bankers Association application indexes, were at the
lowest levels since the 1990s. Existing home sales rose only 3.5 percent in the first six
months of 2014 and are still roughly 25 percent below their 2004 level. In addition, the
private-label RMBS market remains extremely small and limited to mortgages of very
high credit quality. In the second quarter of 2014, less than 1 percent of mortgage
originations were funded through private-label RMBS. 291 The securitizations that were
issued were collateralized by mortgages with a weighted average loan-to-value ratio of
around 70 percent and, in most cases, weighted average credit scores greater than 750.
At the same time, several mortgage and securitization regulatory changes have
been put in place that increase the amount of information available to investors, improve
mortgage underwriting, and increase investors’ ability to exercise their rights and obtain
recoveries in the event of mortgage default. For example, the CFPB has implemented
regulations governing mortgage servicing and loan originator compensation in addition to

291

Mortgage Bankers Association, Quarterly Mortgage Originations Estimates as of July
2014; Intex Solutions, Inc., and Asset-Backed Alert, prime non-agency RMBS issued in
second quarter of 2014.

359

the ability-to-repay rule and QM standards. The ability-to-repay rule is particularly
noteworthy for requiring loan originators to document income, debts, and other
underwriting factors, which should in turn provide investors a more complete set of
information on which to base their investment decision. The Commission recently
adopted revisions to Regulation AB that, among other things, require disclosure in
registered RMBS transactions of detailed loan-level information at the time of issuance
and on an ongoing basis. These revisions also require that securitizers provide investors
with this information three business days prior to the first sale of securities so that they
can analyze this information when making their investment decision. 292 The Commission
also has proposed rules required by section 621 of the Dodd-Frank Act 293 that would
prevent sponsors and certain other securitization participants from engaging in material
conflicts of interest with respect to their securitizations. 294 Additionally, the Board, the
FDIC, the OCC, the FHFA and the Commission, among other federal agencies, have
jointly proposed rules required by section 956 of the Dodd-Frank Act 295 that would
enhance reporting and oversight of incentive-based compensation practices and prohibit
compensation arrangements that encourage inappropriate risk taking by financial
institutions.296 These regulatory actions are further complemented by efforts on the part

292

See Asset-Backed Securities Disclosure and Registration; Final Rule, 79 FR 57184
(Sept. 24, 2014).
293

15 U.S.C. 77z-2a.

294

See Prohibition Against Conflicts of Interest in Certain Securitizations; Proposed
Rule, 76 FR 60320 (Sept. 28, 2011).
295

12 U.S.C. 5641.

296

See Incentive-Based Compensation Arrangements; Proposed Rule, 76 FR 21170
(Apr. 14, 2011).
360

of the Enterprises and the industry to improve standards for due diligence, representations
and warranties, appraisals, and loan information. 297 Although additional changes may be
necessary, taken together, these changes and the other changes to be completed provide
additional support for aligning the definition of QRM with that of QM.
2. Periodic Review of the QRM Definition
The agencies recognized that aligning the QRM definition with the QM definition
could have potential problematic effects on securitization markets, such as increasing of
bifurcation in the mortgage market between QM and non-QM loans. Although the
agencies continue to believe the benefits of the alignment at this time outweigh these
potential risks, the agencies stated in the reproposal that they intended to review the
advantages and disadvantages of aligning the QRM and QM definitions as the market
evolves. 298
The agencies are adopting the reproposed QRM definition, but also recognize that
mortgage and securitization market conditions and practices change over time, and
therefore, believe it would be beneficial to periodically review the QRM definition.
Thus, the agencies are committing in the final rule to review the QRM definition at
regular intervals to consider, among other things, changes in the mortgage and
securitization market conditions and practices (which may include, for example, the
structures of securitizations, the relationship between, and roles undertaken by, the
various transaction parties, implications for investor protection and financial stability

297

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57990.

298

See Revised Proposal, 78 FR at 57991.

361

arising from the relationship between Enterprise markets and private label markets, and
trends in mortgage products in various markets and structures), as well as how the QRM
definition is affecting residential mortgage underwriting and securitization of residential
mortgage loans under evolving market conditions. The agencies also want the
opportunity to consider the results of future reviews of, and any changes made to, the QM
definition by the CFPB, any additional regulatory changes affecting securitization that are
adopted by the agencies, as well as any changes to the structure and framework of the
Enterprises and those markets. As a result of these reviews, the agencies may or may not
decide to modify the definition of QRM. Any such modification would occur through
notice and comment rulemaking. Otherwise, any changes the CFPB makes to the QM
definition automatically will modify the QRM definition.
As provided in the final rule, the agencies will commence a review of the
definition of QRM not later than four years after the effective date of this rule with
respect to securitizations of residential mortgages, five years after the completion of that
initial review, and every five years thereafter. In addition, the agencies will commence a
review at any time upon the request of any one of the agencies. The agencies will jointly
publish in the Federal Register notice of the commencement of a review, including the
reason for the review if it has been initiated upon the request of one of the agencies. In
the notice, the agencies will seek public input on the review. The agencies intend to
complete each review no later than 6 months after initial notice of the review, subject to
extension by the agencies as conditions warrant. Following the review, the agencies will
jointly publish a notice that includes their conclusions from the review and, as part of
such review, take whatever action is required by applicable law, including the

362

Administrative Procedure Act. If, as a result of the review, the agencies decide to modify
the definition of QRM, the agencies will complete such rulemaking within 12 months of
publication in the Federal Register of the notice disclosing the determination of their
review, unless extended by the agencies.
The agencies intend for their initial review of the QRM definition to be completed
after the publication of the report of the CFPB’s assessment of the ability-to-repay rules,
including the QM definition, which the CFPB is required to publish within five years of
the effective date of the ability-to-repay rule (i.e., January 10, 2019). 299 However, as
noted above, the agencies’ initial review will start no later than four years after the
effective date of this final rule with respect to residential mortgages. The agencies
believe this timing helps to ensure the initial review of the QRM definition benefits from
the CFPB’s review and course of action regarding the definition of QM, and will help the
agencies in determining whether the QRM definition should continue to align fully with
the QM definition in all aspects. Furthermore, the agencies expect additional information
on the housing and mortgage market will be available at the time the initial review is
conducted that would be important in determining whether the then-current QRM
definition remains appropriate under prevailing market conditions and continues to meet
the requirements and policy purposes of section 15G of the Exchange Act.
3. Definition of QRM
Under the final rule, QRM is defined by aligning it to the definition of QM in the
CFPB regulations under section 129C of TILA. A QRM is a loan that is a “covered

299

See 12 U.S.C. 5512.

363

transaction” 300 that meets the general definition of a QM. The general definition of a
QM provides that the loan must have:
•

Regular periodic payments that are substantially equal;

•

No negative amortization, interest only or balloon features;

•

A maximum loan term of 30 years;

•

Total points and fees that do not exceed 3 percent of the total loan amount, or the
applicable amounts specified for small loans up to $100,000;

•

Payments underwritten using the maximum interest rate that may apply during the
first five years after the date on which the first regular periodic payment is due;

•

Consideration and verification of the consumer’s income and assets, including
employment status if relied upon, and current debt obligations, mortgage-related
obligations, alimony and child support; and

•

Total DTI ratio that does not exceed 43 percent. 301
In addition, in the final rule, the definition of QRM includes loans that meet one

of the special types of QMs. One special QM is a covered transaction that meets the

300

See 12 CFR 1026.43(b)(1), which defines “covered transaction” as a consumer credit
transaction that is secured by a dwelling, as defined in section 1026.2(a)(19), including
any real property attached to a dwelling, other than a transaction exempt from coverage
under section 1026.43(a) (i.e., HELOCs, time shares, reverse mortgages, temporary or
“bridge” loans of 12 months or less, and certain construction loans).
301

See 12 CFR 1026.4(e)(2).

364

CFPB’s temporary government QM definition. 302 A loan eligible under the temporary
QM definition must satisfy the loan-feature limitations of the general definition of a QM:
the loans must have substantially equal periodic payments, with no interest-only, negative
amortization or balloon features; must have a maximum 30-year term; and must comply
with the points and fees limitations.303 However, the loans are not subject to the
underwriting provisions of the general QM definition, such as the total DTI ratio
requirement of 43 percent or less. To be eligible under the CFPB’s temporary
government QM definition, loans must be eligible for purchase, guarantee or insurance
by an Enterprise, U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), or Rural Housing Services
(RHS). 304
As discussed in the reproposal, the temporary QM definition with respect to an
Enterprise expires once the Enterprise exits conservatorship, but in any case no later than
January 21, 2021. 305 Additionally, the temporary QM definition with respect to USDA
and RHS expires when USDA and RHS issue their own QM rules or, in any case, no later
than January 21, 2021. 306
Lastly, a QRM is a loan that meets the definitions of QM issued by HUD, the
Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), USDA, and RHS under section 129C of TILA.
HUD, VA, USDA, and RHS each have authority under the Dodd-Frank Act to define

302

See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(4).

303

See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(2) and 1026.43(e)(4).

304

See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(4)(ii).

305

See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(4)(iii).

306

See id.

365

QM for their own loans. Specifically, section 129C(a)(3) of TILA authorizes these
agencies to issue rules implementing the QM requirements under section 129C(a)(2) of
TILA. USDA and RHS have not yet issued rules under section 129C of TILA
On December 11, 2013, HUD adopted a final rule to define QM for the single
family residential loans that it insures, guarantees or administers and which took effect on
January 10, 2014. 307 In addition, the VA issued an interim final rule to define QM for
loans that it insures or guarantees, with an effective date of May 9, 2014. 308 Accordingly,
the final definition of QRM now includes any loan insured, guaranteed or administered as
a QM under either the HUD or VA definition of QM, as applicable.
In the final rule, the definition of QRM also includes a loan that meets any of the
special QM definitions designed to facilitate credit offered by small creditors. 309 To
qualify as a “small creditor” eligible under one of these special QM definitions, however,
the entity must meet certain asset and threshold criteria and hold the QM loans in
portfolio for at least three years, with certain exceptions. 310 Thus, loans meeting these
special small creditor QM definitions would generally be ineligible for securitization as
QRMs for three years following consummation.

307

See Qualified Mortgage Definition for HUD Insured and Guaranteed Single Family
Mortgages, 78 FR 75215 (Dec. 11, 2013).
308

See Loan Guaranty: Ability-to-Repay Standards and Qualified Mortgage Definition
Under the Truth in Lending Act, 79 FR 26620 (May 9, 2014).
309

See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(5) and (e)(6).

310

See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(5), (e)(6), and (f).

366

A loan eligible under these special “small creditor” QM definitions must meet the
general requirements of a QM, 311 except that these loans receive greater underwriting
flexibility (i.e., do not need to meet the quantitative DTI threshold of 43 percent or
less). 312 Additionally, a loan originated by a qualifying small creditor may contain a
balloon feature if the loan is originated during the two-year transition period, which
expires January 10, 2016, provided the loan meets certain other criteria, such as a 5-year
minimum term.313 After January 10, 2016, the ability to write a balloon QM will be
limited to small creditors that operate primarily in rural or underserved areas. 314
Consistent with the reproposed definition described above, the final definition of
QRM includes any closed-end loan secured by any dwelling (e.g., home purchase,
refinances, home equity loans, second or vacation homes, and mobile homes, and trailers
used as residences), whether a first or subordinate lien. 315 The final definition of QRM
does not include any loan exempt from the ability-to-repay requirements under TILA and
the ability-to-repay rules, such as HELOCs, reverse mortgages, timeshares or temporary
or “bridge” loans of 12 months or less. 316 In addition, the final definition of QRM does

311

See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(2).

312

See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(5), (e)(6), and (f).

313

See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(6).

314

See 12 CFR 1026.43(f).

315

See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(2), which provides that QM is a covered transaction that
meets the criteria set forth in 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(2), (4), (5), (6) or (f). A “covered
transaction” is defined to mean “a consumer credit transaction that is secured by a
dwelling, as defined in § 1026.2(a)(19), including any real property attached to a
dwelling, other than a transaction exempt from coverage under [§ 1026.43(a)].”
316

The Dodd-Frank Act excludes from the term “residential mortgage loan” an open-end
credit plan or an extension of credit secured by an interest in a timeshare plan. See
367

not include those loans that were provided a regulatory exemption from the
ability-to-repay rules, such as loans made through state housing finance agency programs
and certain community lenders. If a loan is not subject to TILA because it is deemed to
be extended for a business purpose, it is also not included in the definition of QM (and
therefore, is not a QRM). The agencies believe this approach is consistent with the
language and intent of section 15G of the Exchange Act, whereby a QRM can be no
“broader than” a QM.
To provide relief from risk retention for mortgage loans that are collateralized by
three-to-four unit residential properties and are not included in the QRM definition
because they are deemed not to be covered transactions in the QM definition, but that
otherwise meet all the criteria to be a QM, the final rule includes a separate exemption, as
discussed further below in Part VII of this Supplementary Information.
Several commenters requested that the agencies clarify that the incorporated QM
definition include all statutory provisions, the regulation, the regulation’s commentary
and appendix, and future supporting guidance to prevent any difficult interpretive
questions about whether it is possible for a loan to be a QM and not a QRM. As noted
above, the agencies are defining QRM by cross-reference to the definition of QM under
section 129C of TILA, and any regulations issued thereunder, to avoid potential conflicts
between the definitions of QRM and QM and to facilitate compliance. By
15 U.S.C. 1602(cc)(5) and 1639c(i). The Dodd-Frank Act does not apply the ability-torepay provisions of TILA to reverse mortgages and temporary or “bridge” loans with a
term of 12 months or less. See 15 U.S.C. 1639c(a)(8). Therefore they are also exempt
from the ability-to-pay rules. Also excluded are most loan modifications, unless the
transaction meets the definition of refinancing set forth in section 1026.20(a) of the Final
QM rule. For a complete list, see 12 CFR 1026.43(a).

368

cross-referencing to the definition of QM, the final rule incorporates any rules issued
under section 129C of TILA that define QM, including any Official Interpretation that
interprets such rules.
The rule provides that QRM means QM as amended by the CFPB from time to
time. As such, the rule presumes that each amendment to the definition of QM will
automatically be incorporated into the definition of QRM unless the agencies act to
amend the definition of QRM. However, in exercising their responsibility under section
15G, the agencies will evaluate and collectively consider each amendment to QM to
decide whether that amendment meets the requirements of section 15G, and take such
action, if any, as is required under applicable law, including the Administrative Procedure
Act. The agencies note that they will have notice of proposed CFPB changes to the
definition of QM and, thus, will be in a position to commence consideration of possible
changes to the QM definition before the CFPB issues a final rule. As noted above,
section 13(d) of the rule also requires the agencies to conduct periodic reviews of the
definition of QRM.
One commenter requested clarification that all QM definitions would be included
in the revised QRM definition and there would be full alignment of QRM and QM
throughout the life cycle of a loan. As discussed more fully above, QRM is defined to
include a loan that meets any of the definitions of QM issued under section 129C of
TILA. The agencies also note that the determination of whether a loan meets the QM

369

definition occurs at consummation; post-consummation events that cannot be reasonably
anticipated are not relevant. 317
Some commenters requested revisions to provisions that are set forth in the QM
definition, such as the cap on points and fees or the 43 percent DTI ratio limit. The
agencies are required to implement the statutory requirement that the definition of QRM
be no broader than the definition of a QM, and therefore cannot expand the definition of
QRM in this manner.
Some commenters expressed concern with the reproposal to allow higher-priced
QMs to be pooled and securitized with non-higher priced QMs. These commenters
asserted that higher-priced means higher risk. The commenters asserted, however, that
excluding higher-priced QMs from the definition of QRM would unduly restrict LMI
access, and in that case, it may be appropriate to treat these loans as QRMs but that the
agencies should prohibit their inclusion in securitizations that consisted of non-higherpriced QMs. The requirements for QMs are the same whether they are higher-priced or
lower-priced, and those QM criteria are one of the reasons the agencies defined QRM to
mean QM. A higher-priced QM under the CFPB’s rule must generally meet the 43
percent DTI ratio requirement, have verified income and assets, generally have points and
fees that do not exceed the 3 percent cap, have regular periodic payments, and contain no
negative amortization, interest only or balloon features (with exceptions for certain small
creditors). Accordingly, the final rule does not distinguish between non-higher priced

317

See 12 CFR 1026.43(c)(1) and corresponding official staff commentary.

370

and higher-priced QMs, and both are eligible to be QRMs without distinction, and
therefore, can be pooled together in the same securitization.
A few commenters expressed concern that the reproposed QRM definition would
still contain in its practical implementation an implicit bias in favor of a single credit
scoring brand, FICO, to the exclusion of others. These commenters stated that the
Enterprises exclusively use the credit scoring brand FICO when underwriting and
determining eligibility of loans for purchase. These commenters claimed that because the
QRM definition incorporates the temporary QM definition by reference, which permits
loans that are eligible for purchase, guarantee or insurance by an Enterprise to be QRMs
(such loans must also still generally meet the general definition of a QM), there is an
implicit bias towards the FICO scoring brand. One commenter further asserted that the
unintended bias in favor of a single credit scoring brand could be fixed while still
ensuring the QM and QRM definitions are aligned by having FHFA require the
Enterprises to revise their policies and practices to accept mortgages underwritten with
other validated credit scoring models in addition to the single scoring brand currently
permitted.
The agencies note that, under the final rule, the definition of QRM is a loan that
meets any of the definitions of QM issued under section 129C of TILA. Accordingly, the
agencies note that a loan is not required to be eligible for purchase by the Enterprises to
meet the definition of QRM. 318 Thus, the agencies do not believe the alignment of the

318

Some commenters also called on FHFA to require the Enterprises to apply prime loan
criteria in the automatic underwriting system so that the combination of aligning the
371

QRM definition with the QM definition includes an implicit bias in favor of a single
credit scoring brand as there is no requirement in the QM definition that a consolidated
credit score be used or obtained. 319 Therefore, the agencies do not believe that any
changes to the QRM definition are needed.
A few commenters expressed concern about the potential bifurcation effect on the
market if the definitions of QRM to QM were to be aligned, asserting that a QM/QRM
loan may become the only type of residential mortgage made and securitized. Some
commenters suggested that the agencies provide flexibility for creditors to continue
originating non-QM and non-QRM loans by allowing certain loans to qualify for a lower
than 5 percent risk retention requirement. As noted in the reproposal, the agencies
recognize that aligning the QRM and QM definitions has the potential to intensify any
existing bifurcation in the mortgage market that may occur between QM and non-QM
loans, as securitizations collateralized by non-QMs could have higher funding costs due
to risk retention requirements in addition to potential risk of legal liability under the
ability-to-repay rule. The agencies acknowledge this risk but believe that not aligning the
QRM and QM definitions would likely result in even more segmentation in the
securitization market and higher costs for consumers. Securitization typically is a more
cost-effective source of funding when the underlying pool includes a large number of
definitions of QRM and QM and temporary QM definition applicable to loans that
qualify for purchase or guarantee by the Enterprises does not cause a decline in
underwriting standards and assures high underwriting standards. The agencies view this
issue to be outside the scope of this joint rulemaking.
319

The underwriting requirements under the general QM definition and the small
creditor QM definitions do not include a requirement for a credit score or an explicit
requirement to consider credit history. However, credit history may be included in
underwriting for debt and DTI.

372

loans. However, QM and non-QM loans are less likely to be combined in a pool because
of the different risk profiles and legal liabilities associated with these loans, and QRM
and non-QRM loans cannot be combined in a pool under the restrictions of the rule.
Accordingly, if the QRM and QM definitions are not aligned and lenders have difficulty
amassing a critical number of loans for an asset pool to provide cost effective funding,
they may choose a source of funding other than securitization or charge higher mortgage
rates to consumers.
A few other suggestions and concerns expressed by commenters include: (i) a
request that the agencies acknowledge that first mortgages secured by real property in
priority lien states are encompassed within the QRM definition; (ii) caution that the QRM
and credit risk retention rule not evolve into a safety and soundness standard in terms of
evaluating an individual lender’s real estate portfolio; (iii) a request that the QRM
definition reflect the value of Homeownership Education and Counseling in reducing
default; and (iv) a request to allow non-U.S. originated transactions to benefit from the
QRM exemption. The agencies’ definition of QRM is adopted as a component of the
broader credit risk retention rule that helps address underwriting and incentive alignment
concerns in the securitization market and is not a safety and soundness, standard. The
agencies’ adoption of the QRM definition does not limit or change the definition of QM
and, thus, the application of the definition of QM in priority lien states and to non-U.S.
originated transactions is limited by the applicability of the QM definition under TILA
and not the adoption of the definition of QRM. Similarly, the agencies are not expressly
requiring or including as criteria to meet the QRM definition homeownership education
and counseling.

The agencies also will evaluate a lender’s mortgage portfolio on its
373

own merits and do not expect to judge the safety and soundness of a loan or portfolio on
whether or not it meets the definition of QRM.
A few commenters also expressed concern about including subordinate liens in
the scope of the QRM definition. These commenters were concerned that permitting
subordinate liens to be eligible for the QRM exemption would introduce a layer of
additional risk, especially where the QRM definition did not contain a LTV ratio
requirement. One commenter specifically requested that the agencies reconsider the
inclusion of subordinate lien loans in the definition of QRM, noting that second lien
holders have been blamed for holding up short sales and complicating efforts to resolve
defaulted loans.
The agencies appreciate these commenters’ concerns. However, similar to the
reasons discussed in the reproposal, the agencies believe aligning the definition of QRM
to the QM definition, which includes loans secured by any dwelling, as well as
subordinate liens, is appropriate to minimize potential conflicts between the two
definitions. The agencies believe allowing subordinate liens to qualify for the QRM
exemption also will help preserve credit access. Last, as noted above, the QM definition
requires full documentation and verification of consumers’ debt and income on all loans,
which the agencies believe helps to address risks that may accompany subordinate liens.
E. Certification and Other QRM Issues
In order for a QRM to be exempted from the risk retention requirement, the rule
includes evaluation and certification conditions related to QRM status, consistent with
statutory requirements and similar to the reproposal. One commenter requested that the

374

requirement for measuring performance data be as of the cut-off date, and not the closing
date. In response to commenters’ requests, the agencies have modified the performance
measurement date from the closing date to the cut-off date.
While some commenters supported the proposed certification requirements,
others suggested that the certification be submitted to the appropriate Federal banking
agency or the Commission, and not to the investors, which the commenters said would
create additional liability and be functionally burdensome. One commenter suggested
that the agencies make clear that these certifications must be retained by the sponsor for a
period of no more than five years.
The agencies believe that the certification by the depositor for the securitization is
important information that should be disclosed to investors and therefore are not
persuaded by the commenters’ requests to require that certification be submitted only to
the Commission and the appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
Several commenters expressed the belief that allowing for blended pools of
QRMs and non-QRMs would help ensure that a greater variety of loans could be
securitized and reduce market fragmentation between QRMs and non-QRMs. These
commenters requested that the agencies permit the blending of non-QRMs and QRMs,
with the QRMs being exempt from risk retention and the non-QRMs being subject to risk
retention (unless otherwise exempt). Under this approach, the sponsor would be required
to hold credit risk in proportion to the non-qualifying assets in the pool. These
commenters expressed the belief that the exemption authority under section 15G(e)(1)
and (2) of the Exchange Act was sufficiently broad to permit the agencies to provide a
partial exemption for securitizations collateralized by QRMs and non-QRMs. Another
375

approach suggested was that the agencies permit blending exempt mortgage assets (e.g.,
seasoned loans) and QRMs, with all such securitized assets remaining exempt from risk
retention. Under this approach the sponsor would not be required to hold any credit risk
since all of the assets in the pool would qualify for an exemption.
Except as described in Part VII of this Supplementary Information with respect to
certain mortgage loans secured by three-to-four unit properties that meet the QM criteria
other than being an extension of consumer credit, the agencies are not adopting the
requested exemption for blended pools of QRMs and non-QRMs. The agencies believe
that the breadth of the QRM definition in the final rule, as well as the additional mortgage
exemptions discussed in Part VII of this Supplementary Information, should facilitate the
return of private capital to the mortgage market and preserve access to affordable credit
for various types of borrowers while the mortgage market continues to stabilize.
Furthermore, the agencies observe that differences in product features, underwriting
standards, and other factors associated with QRMs and non-QRMs generally could tend
to reduce the likelihood of investors preferring combined pools. The agencies also note
that a reduction in a risk retention requirement for the pool based on inclusion of QRMs
would add complexity to the risk retention regime for residential mortgages without
evidence of any significant benefit. Finally, the agencies are concerned, given the
breadth of the QRM definition, that allowing reduced risk retention for combined pools

376

of QRMs and non-QRMs will not provide sponsors with sufficient incentives to ensure
high quality underwriting of the non-QRM mortgages. 320
F. Repurchase of Loans Subsequently Determined to Be Non-Qualified After
Closing
The reproposal provided that, if after the closing of a QRM securitization
transaction, it was discovered that a mortgage did not meet all of the criteria to be a QRM
due to inadvertent error, the sponsor would be obligated to repurchase the mortgage. 321
While some commenters expressed support for the proposed requirement, one commenter
asserted that investors have historically preferred substitution over repurchase, especially
when the required repurchase would impact the value of the investment.
Similar to the reproposal, the final rule includes a buyback requirement for
mortgages that are determined not to meet the QRM definition by inadvertent error after
the closing of the securitization transaction, provided that the conditions set forth in
section 13(c) of the rule are met. These conditions are intended to provide a sponsor with
the opportunity to correct inadvertent errors by promptly repurchasing any non-qualifying
mortgage loans from the pool. In addition, this requirement helps ensure that sponsors
have a strong economic incentive to ensure that all mortgages collateralizing a QRM

320

The agencies are not addressing the permissibility of exempting pools blending
QRMs and non-QRMs at this time. The agencies note that section15G of the Exchange
Act refers to an exemption from risk retention requirements with respect to an assetbacked security if all the assets that collateralize the asset-backed security are QRMs.
See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11 (c)(1)(C)(iii).
321

Sponsors may choose to repurchase a loan from securitized pools even if there is no
determination that the loan is not a QRM. The agencies would not view such repurchases
as determinative of whether or not a loan meets the QRM standard.

377

securitization satisfy all of the conditions applicable to QRMs prior to closing of the
transactions. As long as the loan met the QRM requirements at the closing of the
securitization transaction, however, subsequent non-performance of the loan does not
trigger the proposed buyback requirement. For the reasons described above, the agencies
are not allowing substitution instead of repurchase in the final rule.
VII. Additional Exemptions
As discussed in Part VI of this Supplementary Information, under the final rule, a
loan is eligible for the QRM exemption if it meets one of the QM definitions issued under
section 129C of TILA, as may be amended from time to time. Meeting the QM criteria is
also one of several ways that a lender can choose to satisfy the minimum underwriting
standards for the ability-to-repay requirements under TILA. Because QM loans may
provide greater protection from potential legal liability under TILA, many lenders are
incentivized to make QMs. 322
Community-Focused Lending Exemption
In addition to the classes of transactions exempt from the ability-to-repay
requirement under the Dodd-Frank Act, such as HELOCs, reverse mortgages, timeshares
or temporary or “bridge” loans of 12 months or less, the CFPB exempted certain
additional categories of loans made by certain lenders from the ability-to-repay rules,
under its regulatory authority to exempt classes of transactions to help ensure borrowers

322

HELOCs and timeshares are also not subject to any ATR requirement, but not
because of a statutory or regulatory exemption. Rather, these loans were never included
in the scope of loans defined to be subject to the ATR requirement (i.e., residential
mortgage loans).

378

continue to have access to affordable mortgage credit. The CFPB used its regulatory
authority to exempt these lenders because they typically use flexible and unique
underwriting standards that differ from the minimum underwriting standards of the
ability-to-repay or QM criteria, and the types of loans exempted are important sources of
credit for LMI, minority and first-time homebuyers. 323 Loans exempt from the ability-torepay requirement fall into the following categories:
•

An extension of credit made pursuant to a program administered by a

Housing Finance Agency, as defined under 24 CFR 266.5 (HFA). 324
•

An extension of credit made by an entity creditor designated by the U.S.

Treasury as Community Development Financial Institution, as defined under 12 CFR
1805.104(h) (CDFI).
•

An extension of credit made by a HUD-designated Downpayment

Assistance through Secondary Financing Provider (DAP), pursuant to 24 CFR
200.194(a), operating in accordance with HUD regulations.
•

An extension of credit made by a HUD-designated Community Housing

Development Organization, as defined under 24 CFR 92.2 (CHDO), provided it has
entered into a commitment with a participating jurisdiction and is undertaking a project

323

See 15 U.S.C. § 1604(f). See also 78 FR 35430 (June 12, 2013).

324

Housing Finance Agency means any public body, agency, or instrumentality created
by a specific act of a State legislature or local municipality empowered to finance
activities designed to provide housing and related facilities, through land acquisition,
construction or rehabilitation. The term State includes the several States, Puerto Rico, the
District of Columbia, Guam, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, American Samoa
and the Virgin Islands.

379

pursuant to HUD’s HOME Investment Partnership Program, pursuant to 24 CFR
92.300(a).
•

An extension of credit made by certain non-profit organizations that

extend credit no more than 200 times annually, 325 provide credit only to LMI consumers,
and follow their own written procedures to determine that consumers have a reasonable
ability to repay their loans (Eligible Nonprofits)
•

An extension of credit made pursuant to a program authorized by sections

101 and 109 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA). 326
As a result, loans made by these entities do not need to comply with the ability-torepay requirement, for which QM is one way to comply.
The agencies received several comments regarding some of the above extensions
of credit. One commenter requested that the agencies clarify that the proposed exemption
from risk retention for asset-backed securities issued or guaranteed by states,
municipalities, and public instrumentalities of states (state and municipal securitization
exemption) 327 would include asset-backed securities issued by HFAs and other state
agencies and collateralized by loans financed by HFAs. This commenter also asked for
clarification on whether the use of private servicers in those transactions would affect the
availability of the exemption. A few commenters requested that the agencies

325

See 79 FR 25730 (May 6, 2014). The CFPB’s proposed rule would exclude from the
200 originations count certain forgivable or deferred second lien loans.
326

12 U.S.C. 5211; 5219.

327

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(c)(1)(G)(iii). See also Part IV.B of this Supplementary
Information.

380

automatically classify all state HFA loans as QRMs. One commenter observed that the
CFPB granted HFA loans an exemption from the ability-to-repay requirement because of
a strong record of lending to LMI borrowers, so that compliance with the ability-to-repay
requirement would be of little benefit and could impede access to credit by LMI
borrowers. Another commenter also asserted that strong credit performance from HFA
loans would mean that risk retention is not necessary to protect investors. This
commenter further expressed concern that if any HFA loans were subject to risk
retention, other securitization structures employed by the HFA that may not technically
qualify for the state and municipal securitizations exemption would then be subject to
risk retention, with negative consequences for access to credit for underserved borrowers.
Several commenters similarly observed that CDFIs and nonprofit lenders are an
important source of mortgage credit for LMI borrowers and play a key role in
neighborhood stabilization and community development. These commenters stated that
loans made by these entities frequently would not fit the QM criteria because they use
flexible underwriting standards that consider an individual borrower’s unique
circumstances and use homebuyer education and housing counseling to support
homeowners throughout the mortgage process. These commenters raised the concern
that the risk retention requirement would impose disproportionate compliance burdens on
these entities and could be a significant barrier to obtaining investment in these lending
programs. Commenters also indicated that exempting these entities from the risk
retention requirement would be within the spirit of aligning QRM with QM.
A few other commenters also requested that the agencies similarly consider
including under the definition of QRM the other categories of loans exempted by the

381

CFPB from the ability-to-repay rules, or otherwise provide them with an exemption from
risk retention. Commenters observed that CDFIs and nonprofit mortgage lenders are an
important source of mortgage credit for LMI borrowers and play a key role in
neighborhood stabilization and community development. The loans made by these
entities are not covered transactions under the ability-to-repay rules (and therefore would
not be classified as QMs in any case) but also frequently would not independently meet
the type of underwriting standards in the CFPB’s QM criteria because they use flexible
features that consider an individual borrower’s unique circumstances. At the same time,
these lenders use homebuyer education and housing counseling to support homeowners
throughout the mortgage process. These commenters raised the concern that the risk
retention requirements would be a disproportionate compliance burden for these entities
and could be a significant barrier to obtaining investment in these lending programs if an
exemption was not provided.
Under section 15G of the Securities Act, the definition of a QRM can be “no
broader than” the definition of a QM. Because there are various and unique underwriting
practices used to make the loans described above that are exempted from the ability-torepay requirement, including significant variations in DTI ratios and other underwriting
criteria, it is not possible for the agencies to determine that these loans generally are not
“broader than” QM. Therefore, the agencies have concluded that they cannot include
these community-focused residential mortgages in the definition of QRM.
As discussed previously with respect to other exemptions (or requests for
exemptions) from risk retention, however, the agencies may provide an exemption from
risk retention if the exemption would: (i) help ensure high-quality underwriting standards
382

for the securitizers and originators of assets that are securitized or available for
securitization; and (ii) encourage appropriate risk management practices by the
securitizers and originators of assets, improve the access of consumers and businesses to
credit on reasonable terms, or otherwise be in the public interest and for the protection of
investors. 328
For the reasons discussed below, and in response to concerns raised by
commenters, the agencies are providing an exemption from risk retention under section
15G(e) of the Exchange Act for the categories of loans described above (communityfocused exempted loans), other than extensions of credit made pursuant to a program
authorized by sections 101 and 109 of the EESA. Generally, the agencies have
concluded that the loans made by lenders identified above and covered by this exemption
meet the requirements for an exemption under section 15G(e) because they are either
government-certified, or originated by government-administered programs, or small nonprofit programs that have a specific community mission. As the primary mission of these
lenders is building and strengthening at-risk communities, or building wealth for LMI
families, strong underwriting procedures to maximize affordability and borrower success
in keeping their homes has been integral to the programs that originate the communityfocused exempted loans. Because the stated mission is integral to the lending programs
administered by these lenders, the agencies believe these entities have the incentive to
maintain strong underwriting standards to help ensure that they offer affordable loans to
the borrowers they serve. The stated mission also helps to protect investors because of

328

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)(2).

383

the incentives to maintain high underwriting standards and ensure that borrowers are
given appropriate and affordable loans. Additionally, exemptions from risk retention for
loans made by the above-listed entities serve the public interest because these entities
have stated public mission purposes to make safe, sustainable loans available primarily to
LMI communities, which helps to improve access to credit on reasonable terms for
borrowers and is in the public interest. The agencies further observe that these programs
are a significant source of credit to LMI communities. To the extent these loans are or
will be securitized, an exemption helps to ensure that a risk retention requirement would
not impede financing on reasonable terms for such borrowers.
In addition, the agencies below respond to concerns raised by commenters with
respect to the exemption under section 15G of the Exchange Act and the final rule for
asset-backed securities issued or guaranteed by states and their instrumentalities, or by
municipal entities.
i. Housing Finance Agency Program Loans
State HFAs are state lending programs established to help meet the affordable
housing needs of the residents of their states. Although their characteristics vary widely,
such as their relationship to the state government, most HFAs are independent entities
that operate under the direction of a board of directors appointed by each state's governor.
They typically administer a wide range of affordable housing and community
development programs, including providing first-time homebuyers with loans for existing
and new construction and providing financing to build and revitalize affordable housing
units, revitalize older neighborhoods and communities, and build shelters and transitional
and supportive housing.

384

If an HFA is a public instrumentality of a state, then an asset-backed security
issued or guaranteed by such HFA (or otherwise issued or guaranteed by the state that
established the HFA or one of its public instrumentalities) is exempt from the registration
requirements under section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act 329 and should be exempt from
risk retention under the state and municipal securitization exemption provided in section
19(b)(3) of the final rule. Further, the use of a private-sector entity to service loans that
collateralize such asset-backed securities would not, in and of itself, invalidate this
exemption. If an HFA is not a public instrumentality of a state whose securities are
exempt from the registration requirements under section 3(a)(2) of the Securities Act,
then securitizations issued or guaranteed by the HFA would not automatically be exempt
from risk retention unless another exemption applied. Securitizations of loans made by
HFAs through private-sector sponsors also would not have an exemption from risk
retention. The agencies understand that it is unclear whether there are any HFA
securitizations currently occurring that are not covered under that state and municipal
securitizations exemption in section 19(b)(3) of the final rule. However, the agencies
believe it may be possible that some future securitizations of HFA loans would not be
covered and that an exemption under section 15G(e) of the Exchange Act would help
ensure that HFA lending programs continue to have access to the financial markets,
which in turn should help to ensure affordable access to credit for the borrowers that they
serve.

329

15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(2).

385

Many HFA underwriting standards are similarly stringent or more stringent than
those of the Enterprises or Federal government agencies thorough their program analyses
of a consumer's ability to repay. 330 The agencies believe that an exemption under section
15G(e) would encourage HFAs to continue providing sound underwriting and access to
affordable credit for their communities. In addition, as discussed above, the state HFA
programs are established under public oversight under a specific state legal framework
and provide a key source of affordable mortgage credit for LMI and first-time borrowers
that is important to sustaining homeownership (and the public benefits that flow
therefrom) in many communities.
ii. Community Development Financial Institution Loans
Creditors designated as CDFIs, as defined under Treasury regulations, 331 include
such entities as regulated banks, savings associations and credit unions as well as
nonprofit funds and institutions. 332 The Community Development Banking and Financial
Institutions Act of 1994, 333 defines a CDFI as an entity that (1) has a primary mission of
promoting community development; (2) serves an investment area or targeted population;
(3) provides development services in conjunction with equity investments or loans
directly or through a subsidiary or affiliate; (4) maintains, through representation on its
governing board accountability to residents of its area or target population; and (5) is a

330

See 78 FR 35430, 35432-33 (June 12, 2013).

331

12 CFR 1805.104(h).

332

There were 874 CDFIs as of June 30, 2014. CDFI Fund, CDFI Certification, visited
August 1, 2014, available at:
http://www.cdfifund.gov/what_we_do/programs_id.asp?programID=9#certified.

333

12 U.S.C. 1401 et seq.

386

nongovernmental entity. Treasury’s CDFI certification and application regulations
incorporate the statutory definition requirements and contain additional requirements for
eligibility verification, applications, matching funds, and other standards. These
requirements include that a CDFI must be certified by Treasury’s CDFI Fund Program. 334
Additionally, at least 60 percent of the financing activities of a CDFI must be targeted to
one or more LMI or underserved communities.
Although CDFI securitization volume data is not available, at least one CDFI, the
Community Reinvestment Fund, has issued securitizations in the past. Access to the
securitization market for CDFIs may help to ensure that these entities can continue to
focus on their mission of providing community development and helping LMI borrowers
by preserving access to the securitization market. In determining that these entities
warranted an exemption from the ability-to-repay rules, the CFPB found that, although
these entities do not have standardized underwriting criteria, they use a variety of
compensating factors and compare the strength of different underwriting factors, such as
credit history and income, to determine if the LMI consumer qualified. 335 Similar to state
HFAs, an exemption from risk retention would assist CDFIs in continuing their mission
of providing affordable credit to various communities by allowing them to access
securitization markets without risk retention requirements if they were to seek such
funding in the future. Furthermore CDFIs have a stated mission requirement to serve the

334

12 CFR 1805.201.

335

78 FR at 35433, 35461 (June 12, 2013).

387

community which requires them to maintain strong underwriting standards to protect the
individual borrower and the organization, thus lowering risk for the public and investors.
iii. Community Housing Development Organizations and Downpayment
Assistance Programs
To be a CHDO, an organization must qualify under HUD’s regulations for such
designation and re-qualify every time it receives additional set-asides through the HOME
program. HUD's HOME Investment Partnership Program 336 requires the allocation of 15
percent of funds to a CHDO to undergo HOME activities. A CHDO has 5 years to
allocate the funds and its activities must be in compliance with both HUD’s and the
awarding jurisdiction’s requirements for use of the HOME funds. 337 HUD’s
requirements for being a CHDO and eligible for an award include: (1) being a private
nonprofit organization; (2) having among its purposes the provision of decent housing
that is affordable to LMI persons, as evidenced in its charter, articles of incorporation,
resolutions or by-laws; (3) having a demonstrated capacity for carrying out housing
projects assisted with HOME funds; and (4) having a history of serving the community
within which housing to be assisted with HOME funds is to be located. Data indicates
that lending at CHDOs totaled $64 million in 2011 with just under 500 loans. 338

336

There are 353 creditors certified by HUD as CHDOs. OneCPD, HUD Exchange,
visited on August 1, 2014, available at: https://www.onecpd.info/search.

337

24 CFR 92.254.

338

78 FR at 35434, 35461 (June 12, 2013).

388

As with CDFIs, although CHDOs do not have standardized underwriting criteria,
CHDOs use a variety of compensating factors, including an ability-to-repay analysis, 339
in underwriting mortgage loans to ensure that the loan is appropriate for the borrower. 340
CHDOs use these factors in addition to standard underwriting factors, such as credit
history and income, to determine if the LMI consumer qualifies. 341 CHDOs’ stated
mission to serve LMI persons and requirements to qualify under the HUD program helps
to ensure strong, but flexible underwriting of loans to sustain their mission.
For its loans to qualify for an exemption from the ability-to-repay rules, a
Downpayment Assistance Provider must operate in accordance with applicable HUD
regulations. 342 Consequently, a DAP must be listed on HUD’s nonprofit organization
roster by applying every two years and specifying the FHA activities it proposes to carry
out. 343 The organization must comply with all requirements stated in the specific
applicable provision of the single family regulations applicable to the FHA activity it
undertakes. Similar to CHDOs, DAPs also use underwriting requirements that are
tailored to the target LMI populations. 344 The DAPs’ mission requires them to tailor their
programs to provide lending for LMI populations, but they must also follow HUD and
program-specific requirements which encourage sound lending.

339

24 CFR 92.254.

340

Id.

341

Id.

342

12 CFR 1026.43(a)(3)(v)(B).

343

There are currently 205 organizations certified as DAPs. HUD, Nonprofits, visited on
August 1, 2014, available at: https://entp.hud.gov/idapp/html/f17npdata.cfm.

344

See 78 FR 35430, 35464 (June 12, 2014).

389

iv. Exempt Nonprofit Organizations
To be exempt from the ability-to-repay rules, a nonprofit organization must have
an IRS tax-exempt ruling or determination letter as a 501(c)(3) organization, and meet the
following additional criteria: 345 (1) during the preceding calendar year, the organization
extended a maximum of 200 dwelling-secured loans; 346 (2) during the preceding calendar
year, extended credit only to consumers with income that did not exceed the LMI
household limit; (3) the extension of credit must be made to consumers with income that
does not exceed the LMI household limit; and (4) the creditor has and uses written
procedures to determine the consumer’s reasonable ability to repay. Similar to the other
categories of lenders exempted from risk retention because of their community-focused
lending, as discussed above, these entities serve LMI consumers, and as non-profits, seek
to provide borrowers with loans that will be affordable to lower risk to the borrower and
the non-profit. Additionally, such entities must maintain a written policy on determining
ability to repay for the LMI consumers it serves.
For the reasons discussed above, under section 15G(e) of the Exchange Act, the
agencies are exempting from risk retention loans made by the above entities that are also
exempt from the ability-to-repay rules under the CFPB’s Regulation Z. As discussed
above, the agencies have concluded that the history of sound underwriting of affordable
mortgage credit to LMI and similar communities by these entities, government oversight

345

12 CFR 1026.43(a)(3)(v)(D),

346

The CFPB has proposed an amendment to exclude from the 200 originations count
certain forgivable or deferred second lien loans. See 79 FR 25730 (May 6, 2014). Update
if CFPB adopts change before this rule is finalized.

390

and program requirements, as well as the public mission of these entities generally
supports findings that these exemptions from risk retention would help ensure highquality underwriting and be in the public interest and for the protection of investors.
The agencies have not concluded that an exemption is warranted for extensions of
credit under EESA programs. Unlike the community-focused lending exemption, the
EESA exemption covers special, temporary homeownership stabilization and foreclosure
prevention programs that were specially enacted in the wake of the financial crisis to
promote the recovery and prevent foreclosures. The EESA programs exempted from the
ability-to-repay rule are those authorized under the “Making Home Affordable” (MHA)
provision and the Hardest Hit Fund (HHF), which includes programs such as the Home
Affordable Modification Program and the Home Affordable Foreclosure Alternatives
Program. Currently the MHA programs are scheduled to expire on December 31, 2015,
and the HHF programs are scheduled to expire on December 31, 2017. The rehabilitative
purpose of these programs and their limited duration distinguish these programs from the
community-focused lending programs. Consequently, the agencies are not exempting
these programs from risk retention.
Under the final rule, an exemption is provided if the asset-backed securities issued
in the transaction are collateralized solely by community-focused residential mortgages
and by servicing assets. Alternatively, if the community-focused residential mortgages
are included in a pool with other non-QRMs, the amount of risk retention required under
section 4(a) of the rule is reduced by a ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the
community-focused residential mortgages to the total unpaid principal balance of
residential mortgages that are included in the pool of assets collateralizing the asset-

391

backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction (the communityfocused residential mortgage asset ratio). This community-focused residential mortgage
asset ratio must be measured as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the
composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued
pursuant to the securitization transaction. In addition, under the final rule, if the
community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio exceeds 50 percent, it is treated as 50
percent, which provides the same ability to pool exempt community-focused residential
mortgages with other non-QRMs, as permitted for qualifying and non-qualifying
commercial loans, CRE loans, and automobile loans.
Additionally, the agencies are committing in the final rule to review the
community-focused lending exemption at the same time the agencies review the QRM
definition (i.e., no later than four years after the effective date of this rule with respect to
securitizations of residential mortgages, five years after the completion of that initial
review, and every five years thereafter.) In addition, the agencies will commence a
review of the exemption at any time upon the request of any one of the agencies. This
will allow the agencies to assess the advantages and disadvantages of the exemption over
time and as the market evolves.
Exemption for Certain Mortgage Loans Secured by Three-to-Four Unit Residential
Properties
Under Regulation Z, only loans that are “covered transactions” are QMs under the
definitions adopted by the CFPB. 347 A “covered transaction” under Regulation Z means

347

See 12 CFR 1026.43(e)(2), (e)(4), (e)(5), and (e)(6).

392

a consumer credit transaction that is secured by a dwelling (including any real property
attached to a dwelling) other than those consumer credit transactions exempted from the
ability-to-repay rules by the CFPB. 348 A “dwelling” is defined under the CFPB rules as a
residential structure that contains one-to-four units (and can include various types of
properties such as mobile homes and condominiums). 349 However, the Regulation Z
Official Interpretations specify that credit extended to acquire a rental property that is or
will be owner-occupied within the coming year and that has more than two housing units
is deemed to be for business purposes. 350 In that case, the loan is not a consumer credit
transaction or covered transaction under Regulation Z, and therefore does not appear to
meet the definition of QM.
In aligning the QRM definition with QM, the agencies understood that covered
transactions could include owner-occupied, one-to-four unit residential properties. 351
The agencies also understand that market practice is generally to categorize residential
mortgage securitizations as those collateralized by one-to-four unit properties, with
mortgages of three-to-four unit properties frequently combined in a single collateral pool
with one- or two-unit properties. 352 Enterprise guidelines for residential mortgage

348

12 CFR 1026.43(b)(1).

349

See 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(19).

350

See 12 CFR part 1026 Supplement I, paragraph 3(a)-5.i.

351

See, for example, the discussion in the preamble to the 2013 proposal at 57991 (78
FR 57928, 57991 (September 20, 2013)) and the proposed definition of commercial loan,
which excluded any loan to a company or an individual for business purposes to purchase
or refinance a one-to-four family residential property (78 FR 57928, 58037 (September
20, 2013)).
352

See, for example,
https://www.americansecuritization.com/uploadedFiles/RMBS%20Outline.pdf
393

securitizations also categorize residential mortgages by one-to-four family units. 353 From
a credit risk perspective, mortgages secured by three-to-four unit residential properties
generally have the same characteristics as mortgages secured by two-unit properties,
which are covered transactions under Regulation Z and may qualify as QMs, and
therefore QRMs.
The agencies are concerned that the categorical exclusion of some mortgage loans
secured by three-to-four unit mortgages from the definition of “covered transaction”
under Regulation Z (in accordance with the Official Interpretations) and the consequence
that such loans appear not to be QMs even if they otherwise meet all of the other QM
criteria, would inappropriately constrain funding from the securitization markets for these
types of residential mortgages. This in turn could significantly impact the availability of
credit to finance the purchase of such properties by owner-occupiers. While the overall
volume of mortgage lending secured by three-to-four unit residential properties is small
in relation to all residential mortgage lending, there are some metropolitan areas that
contain a significant stock of such properties, including in many low-and-moderate
income areas. 354

353

The agencies also note that other regulations categorize mortgages on one-to-four unit
(or family) properties as residential mortgages. See, for example, the definition of
“residential mortgage exposure” in the banking agency capital regulations (12 CFR 3.2,
12 CFR 217.2; 12 CFR 324.2). See also similar definitions in 12 CFR 37.2; 12 CFR part
30, appendix C; 12 CFR part 208, appendix C.
354

In a review mortgages originated from 2005 to 2013, with respect to each vintage,
mortgages collateralized by two-to-four unit properties accounted for between 1 percent
and 3 percent of the count of residential mortgages and to one to four percent of the
dollar volume (at origination). Data sources reviewed do not generally separately
identify one-to-four unit properties. (Data reviewed was from Black Knight Data and
Analytics (formerly known as McDash)). It is noted that there are some metropolitan
394

At the same time, the agencies believe that owner-occupied, three-to-four unit
mortgages that meet the same underwriting qualifications under the QM rule as two unit
residential mortgages that meet the QM definition have similar risk characteristics. In
order to ensure that such mortgage loans have the same access to securitization markets
as similar loans secured by one-to-two unit properties, pursuant to the authority in section
15G(e)(1) of the Exchange Act, the agencies are exempting from risk retention
requirements owner-occupied mortgage loans secured by three-to-four unit residential
properties that meet all the criteria for QM in Regulation Z except for being a “consumer
credit transaction,” as determined under Regulation Z and the Official Interpretations.
These mortgages are referred to in the final rule as “qualifying three-to-four unit
residential mortgage loans.” To qualify for the exemption, a mortgage loan secured by a
three-to-four unit residential property must be owner-occupied and must comply with all
of the requirements for qualified mortgages as set forth in sections 1026.43(e) and (f) of
Regulation Z as if the mortgage were a covered transaction for purposes of that
section. 355
The agencies recognize that in order for qualifying three-to-four unit residential
mortgage loans to benefit from the exemption from risk retention as intended and
maintain access to securitization markets and mortgage credit similar to residential
mortgages that are QRMs, it must be possible for sponsors to combine these loans with
QRMs in a single collateral pool. Therefore, pursuant to their exemptive authority in
statistical areas across the country in which the share of housing units located in 3 and 4
unit properties is significantly higher than the national average of 4.5 percent, based on
data from the U.S. Census, 2013 American Community Survey, 1-year estimates.
355

12 CFR 1026.43(e).

395

section15G (e)(1), the agencies are also providing an exemption from risk retention for
securitizations that contain both QRMs and qualifying three-to-four unit residential
mortgage loans.
To qualify for these combined pools, the final rule requires that depositors comply
with the certification requirements for these exempt securitization transactions on the
same basis as qualifying residential mortgage securitization transactions that are
exempted from risk retention. That is, the depositor must certify that all the assets in the
pool meet either the QRM definition or are qualifying three-to-four unit residential
mortgage loans that meet the requirements of section 1026.43(e) (other than being
deemed a consumer credit transaction). Additionally, a sponsor must comply with the
repurchase requirements for these exempt securitization transactions on the same basis as
qualifying residential mortgage securitization transactions that are exempted from risk
retention, if it is determined after closing that a loan does not meet all of the criteria to be
either a QRM or a qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loan.
As discussed previously with respect to other exemptions from risk retention
pursuant to section 15G(e)(1) of the Exchange Act, the agencies may issue exemptions,
exceptions or adjustments to the risk retention rules, including for classes of institutions
or assets relating to the risk retention requirement, if the exemption would: (i) help ensure
high-quality underwriting standards for the securitizers and originators of assets that are
securitized or available for securitization; and (ii) encourage appropriate risk
management practices by the securitizers and originators of assets, improve the access of

396

consumers and businesses to credit on reasonable terms, or otherwise be in the public
interest and for the protection of investors. 356
The agencies believe that an exemption from risk retention for securitization
transactions collateralized by qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans and
an exemption for combining qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans and
QRMs (as well as servicing assets) in a single securitization pool meets these statutory
standards for an exemption under section 15G(e)(1). The exemptions will help ensure
high-quality underwriting standards for securitizers and originators of assets that are
securitized or available for securitization because all the collateral will have to be
mortgage loans secured by owner-occupied, one-to-four family residential properties that
met all the requirements to be a QM (other than being deemed a loan for business
purposes, and therefore not a covered transaction, under the Official Interpretations of
Regulation Z (12 CFR part 1026, Supplement I, paragraph 3(a)(5)(i)). As discussed
above with respect to the alignment of the QRM and QM definitions, the agencies believe
that the underwriting and product standards for QMs limit credit risk and promote sound
underwriting.
The agencies also believe that the exemptions will improve the access of
consumers and businesses to credit on reasonable terms because they will help preserve
access to securitization funding for mortgage loans to owner-occupied three-to-four unit
residential properties on the same basis as other one-to-four unit residential properties.
The exemptions are also in the public interest and for the protection of investors because

356

15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)(1) and (2).

397

they require all the loans in a securitization transaction that benefit from the exemption to
meet the underwriting and product standards of QM, which, for the reasons discussed
above in Section VI, appropriately limit credit risk for residential mortgages exempted
from risk retention.
The agencies also believe that, because the qualifying three-to-four unit
residential mortgage loans will meet all QM criteria other than being a consumer credit
transaction, these exemptions are not inconsistent with the provisions of section 15G of
the Exchange Act that, absent an exemption, require the agencies to apply risk retention
to transactions collateralized by both QRMs and non-QRMs. 357 The agencies have
separately retained the exemption mandated in section 15G for risk retention for
securitization transactions collateralized solely by QRMs, including the certification
requirements also specified in the statute. 358 Moreover, the exemption the agencies are
providing for securitizations collateralized by both QRMs and qualifying three-to-four
unit residential mortgage loans is limited in scope and only permits the mixing of QRMs
and non-QRM loans that are subject to the exact same underwriting and product type
standards that limit credit risk and define QM. For these reasons, the agencies are
adopting the above described exemption from risk retention in the final rule.
Additionally, the agencies are committing in the final rule to review the
exemption for qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans at the same time

357

The agencies do not otherwise address the permissibility of exemptions for pools
blending QRMs and non-QRMs at this time. See note 322, supra, and accompanying
text.
358

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11 (e)(5) and (e)(6).

398

the agencies review the QRM definition (i.e., no later than four years after the effective
date of this rule with respect to securitizations of residential mortgages, five years after
the completion of that initial review, and every five years thereafter.) In addition, the
agencies will commence a review of the exemption at any time upon the request of any
one of the agencies. This will allow the agencies to assess the advantages and
disadvantages of the exemption over time and as the market evolves.
VIII. Severability
If any provision of this rule, or the application thereof to any person or
circumstance, is held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or
application of such provisions to other persons or circumstances that can be given effect
without the invalid provision or application.
IX. Plain Language
Section 722 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, Pub. L. 106-102, sec. 722, 113 Stat.
1338, 1471 (Nov. 12, 1999), requires the Federal banking agencies to use plain language
in all proposed and final rules published after January 1, 2000. The Federal banking
agencies invited comments on how to make the reproposal easier to understand.
X.

Administrative Law Matters

A.

Regulatory Flexibility Act
OCC: The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) generally requires that, when

promulgating a final rule, an agency publish a final regulatory flexibility analysis that
describes, among other items, the impact of the final rule on small entities. 359 However, a

359

5 U.S.C. 604.

399

regulatory flexibility analysis is not required if the head of the agency certifies that the
rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small
entities 360 and publishes the certification and a statement of the factual basis for such
certification. 361
As discussed in the Supplementary Information, the final rule generally requires a
securitizer to retain not less than 5 percent of the credit risk of any asset that the
securitizer, through the issuance of an asset-backed security (ABS), transfers, sells, or
conveys to a third party; and prohibits a securitizer from directly or indirectly hedging or
otherwise transferring the credit risk that the securitizer is required to retain. In certain
situations, the final rule allows securitizers to allocate a portion of the risk retention
requirement to the originator(s) of the securitized assets, if an originator contributes at
least 20 percent of the assets in the securitization. The final rule also provides an
exemption for ABS collateralized exclusively by QRM loans.
In determining whether the final rule would have a significant economic impact
on a substantial number of small national banks and Federal savings associations, the
OCC reviewed December 31, 2013 Call Report data 362 to evaluate the securitization
activity and approximate the number of small banking organizations that potentially

360

The Small Business Administration defines small entity to include national banks or
Federal savings associations with assets of $550 million or less. 13 CFR 121.201.

361

5 U.S.C. 605(b).

362

Call Report Schedule RC-S provides information on the servicing, securitization, and
asset sale activities of banking organizations. For purposes of the RFA analysis, the OCC
evaluated data regarding residential mortgage loan origination for securitization, as this is
the primary securitization activity by small banking organizations.

400

could retain credit risk under the final rule primarily through the allocation to originator
provisions.
As of December 31, 2013, the OCC regulated approximately 1,231 small national
banks and Federal savings associations that would be subject to this rule. The Call Report
data indicates that approximately 155 small national banks and Federal savings
associations originate loans for securitization, predominantly one-to-four family
residential mortgages. Using a threshold of 5 percent of small regulated institutions, the
final rule could impact a substantial number of small national banks and Federal savings
associations.
The vast majority of securitization activity by small banks is in the residential
mortgage sector. Many of these banks originate and sell residential mortgage loans to the
Enterprises, which satisfy risk retention under the final rule when they securitize those
loans and would not allocate risk retention to the originating banks under the final rule.
Small banks that originate mortgages for securitization through other channels likely
would be exempt from risk retention by another provision in the rule, such as that the
loans meet the QRM definition or meet the community focused lending securitization
exemption. For these reasons, the OCC concludes that the final rule would not have a
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small national banks and Federal
savings associations. 363

363

The OCC previously concluded that the reproposed rule, if finalized, would not have a
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small national banks and Federal
savings associations. See Section VIII.A, 78 FR 57928 (September 20, 2013). The OCC
requested comment and received no responsive comments on that conclusion.

401

Board: In general, section 4 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 604)
requires an agency to prepare a final regulatory flexibility analysis for a final rule unless
the agency certifies that the rule will not, if promulgated, have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small entities (defined as of July 14, 2014, to include
banking entities with total assets of $550 million or less) (“small banking entities”). 364
Pursuant to section 505(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, a final regulatory flexibility
analysis is not required if an agency certifies that the final rule will not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The Board has considered the
potential economic impact of the final rule on small banking entities supervised by the
Board in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act. The Board believes that the
final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small
banking entities supervised by the Board for the reasons described below.
For the reasons discussed in Part II of this Supplementary Information, the final
rule defines a securitizer as a “sponsor” in a manner consistent with the definition of that
term in the Commission’s Regulation AB and provides that the sponsor of a
securitization transaction is generally responsible for complying with the risk retention
requirements established under section 15G. The Board is unaware of any small banking
organization under the supervision of the Board that has acted as a sponsor of a

364

See 13 CFR 121.201; See also 13 CFR 121.103(a)(6) (noting factors that the Small
Business Administration considers in determining whether an entity qualifies as a small
business, including receipts, employees, and other measures of its domestic and foreign
affiliates).

402

securitization transaction 365 (based on December 31, 2013 data). 366 As of December 31,
2013, there were approximately 5,051 small banking organizations supervised by the
Board, which includes 4,009 bank holding companies, 298 savings and loan holding
companies, 651 state member banks, 23 Edge and agreement corporations and 70 U.S.
offices of foreign banking organizations.
The final rule permits, but does not require, a sponsor to allocate a portion of its
risk retention requirement to one or more originators of the securitized assets, subject to
certain conditions being met. In particular, a sponsor may offset the risk retention
requirement by the amount of any eligible vertical risk retention interest or eligible
horizontal residual interest acquired by an originator of one or more securitized assets if
certain requirements are satisfied, including, the originator must originate at least 20
percent of the securitized assets. 367 A sponsor using this risk retention option remains
responsible for ensuring that the originator has satisfied the risk retention requirements.
In light of this option, the Board has considered the impact of the final rule on originators
that are small banking organizations.

365

For purposes of the proposed rules, this would include a small bank holding
company; savings and loan holding company; state member bank; Edge corporation;
agreement corporation; foreign banking organization; and any subsidiary of the
foregoing.

366

Call Report Schedule RC-S; Data based on the Reporting Form FR 2866b; Structure
Data for the U.S. Offices of Foreign Banking Organizations; and Aggregate Data on
Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and agencies of Foreign Banks based on the
quarterly form FFIEC 002.
367

With respect to an open market CLO transaction, the risk retention retained by the
originator must be at least 20 percent of the aggregate principal balance at origination of
a CLO-eligible loan tranche.

403

The December 31, 2013 regulatory report data 368 indicates that approximately 757
small banking organizations, 102 of which are small banking organizations that are
supervised by the Board, originate loans for securitization, namely ABS issuances
collateralized by one-to-four family residential mortgages. The majority of these
originators sell their loans to the Enterprises, which retain credit risk through agency
guarantees and would not be able to allocate credit risk to originators under this proposed
rule. Additionally, based on publicly-available market data, it appears that most
residential mortgage-backed securities offerings are collateralized by a pool of mortgages
with an unpaid aggregate principal balance of at least $500 million. 369 Accordingly,
under the final rule a sponsor could potentially allocate a portion of the risk retention
requirement to a small banking organization only if such organization originated at least
20 percent ($100 million) of the securitized mortgages. As of December 31, 2012, only

368

Call Report Schedule RC-S provides information on the servicing, securitization, and
asset sale activities of banking organizations. For purposes of the RFA analysis, the
agencies gathered and evaluated data regarding (1) the outstanding principal balance of
assets sold and securitized by the reporting entity with servicing retained or with recourse
or other seller-provided credit enhancements, and (2) assets sold with recourse or other
seller-provided credit enhancements and not securitized by the reporting bank.
369

Based on the data provided in Table 1, page 29 of the Board’s “Report to the
Congress on Risk Retention”, it appears that the average MBS issuance is collateralized
by a pool of approximately $620 million in mortgage loans (for prime MBS issuances) or
approximately $690 million in mortgage loans (for subprime MBS issuances). For
purposes of the RFA analysis, the agencies used an average asset pool size of $500
million to account for reductions in mortgage securitization activity following 2007, and
to add an element of conservatism to the analysis.

404

one small banking organization supervised by the Board reported an outstanding
principal balance of assets sold and securitized of $100 million or more. 370
For residential mortgage-backed securitizations, the draft final rule is expected to
have minimal impact on the cost of credit for sponsors of non-Enterprise mortgagebacked securitizations that currently retain less than the draft final rule’s base risk
retention requirement. The markets for those residential mortgages exempted under the
draft final rule should be very large, and result in significant liquidity, economies of
scale, little to no impact for these securitizations.
Commercial loans that have in recent years been securitized through open market
CLOs may experience a modest incremental impact in the cost of credit, as mangers of
open market CLOs increase their credit exposure to 5 percent using the horizontal risk
retention option under the draft final rule. There could also be consolidation in the asset
manager industry as a result. The alternative option for lead arrangers to hold risk in the
final rule should have minimal impact on the cost of credit (approximately 0-10 basis
points) because it would be a vertical interest. An estimate for the incremental increase
in the cost of credit for CLO managers is approximately 10-20 basis points, but because
risk retention would affect the current business model, costs may be higher than
expected.
The draft final rule will also likely have an effect on CMBS transactions. The
typical market practice of holding horizontal risk retention of 2.5 percent for conduit

370

The FDIC notes that this finding assumes that no portion of the assets originated by
small banking organizations were sold to securitizations that qualify for an exemption
from the risk retention requirements under the proposed rule.

405

transactions will double to 5 percent under the draft rule. The Board estimates that the
rule will have a small incremental impact on cost of credit (of up to 10 basis points,
approximately) for sponsors subject to the rule, but reducing the leverage of third-party
purchasers could significantly improve issuer incentives, and other requirements in the
rule could mitigate existing conflicts of interest between third-party purchasers and
sponsors who hold residual interests and senior investors. Single-Borrower CMBS,
despite a lack of current risk retention in practice, should experience a modest
incremental impact on cost of credit (of up to approximately 25 basis points).
The rule should have little to no effect on the cost of credit for credit card, prime and
non-prime auto, student loan, and less common (esoteric) securitizations, because the
amount of credit risk retention typical to these securitizations already being held in the
market is generally adequate to satisfy the requirements in the final rule.
In light of the foregoing, the Board does not believe, for the banking entities
subject to the Board’s jurisdiction, that the final rule would have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small entities.
FDIC: The Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. (RFA), requires an
agency, in connection with a final rule, to prepare a Final Regulatory Flexibility Act
analysis describing the impact of the rule on small entities (defined by the Small Business
Administration for purposes of the RFA to include banking entities with total assets of
$550 million or less) or to certify that the rule will not have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small entities. 371

371

See 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.

406

As of June 30, 2014, there were 3,573 small FDIC-supervised institutions, which
include 3,267 state nonmember banks and 306 state-chartered savings institutions. For
the reasons provided below, the FDIC certifies that the final rule will not have a
significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, which in this
context are small banking organizations supervised by the FDIC with total assets of $550
million or less. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required.
As discussed in the Supplementary Information above, section 941 of the DoddFrank Act 372 generally requires the Federal banking agencies and the Commission, and,
in the case of the securitization of any residential mortgage asset, together with HUD and
FHFA, to jointly prescribe regulations, that (i) require a securitizer to retain not less than
5 percent of the credit risk of any asset that the securitizer, through the issuance of an
asset-backed security (ABS), transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party; and (ii) prohibit
a securitizer from directly or indirectly hedging or otherwise transferring the credit risk
that the securitizer is required to retain under section 15G. Although the final rule will
apply directly only to securitizers, subject to certain considerations section 15G
authorizes the agencies to permit securitizers to allocate at least a portion of the risk
retention requirement to the originator(s) of the securitized assets.
Section 15G provides a total exemption from the risk retention requirements for
securitizers of certain securitization transactions, such as an ABS issuance collateralized
exclusively by QRMs, and further authorizes the agencies to establish a lower risk
retention requirement for securitizers of ABS issuances collateralized by other asset

372

Codified at section 15G of the Exchange Act, 17 U.S.C. 78o-11.

407

types, such as commercial, commercial real estate (CRE), and automobile loans, which
satisfy underwriting standards established by the Federal banking agencies and the
Commission. The risk retention requirements of section 15G apply generally to a
‘‘securitizer’’ of ABS, where securitizer is defined to mean (i) an issuer of an ABS; or
(ii) a person who organizes and initiates an asset-backed transaction by selling or
transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, to the
issuer. Section 15G also defines an ‘‘originator’’ as a person who (i) through the
extension of credit or otherwise, creates a financial asset that collateralizes an assetbacked security; and (ii) sells an asset directly or indirectly to a securitizer. The final rule
implements the credit risk retention requirements of section 15G. The final rule, as a
general matter, requires that a ‘‘sponsor’’ of a securitization transaction retain the credit
risk of the securitized assets in the form and amount required by the final rule. The
agencies believe that imposing the risk retention requirement on the sponsor of the ABS - as permitted by section 15G -- is appropriate in view of the active and direct role that a
sponsor typically has in arranging a securitization transaction and selecting the assets to
be securitized. The FDIC is aware of only 22 small banking organizations that currently
sponsor securitizations (three of which are national banks, eight of which are state
member banks, eight of which are state nonmember banks, and three of which are savings
associations, based on June 30, 2014 information) and, therefore, the risk retention
requirements of the final rule, as generally applicable to sponsors, will not have a
significant economic impact on small banking organizations. Under the final rule a
sponsor may offset the risk retention requirement by the amount of any eligible vertical
interest or eligible horizontal residual interest acquired by an originator of one or more

408

securitized assets if certain requirements are satisfied, including, the originator must
originate at least 20 percent of the securitized assets, as measured by the aggregate
unpaid principal balance of the asset pool. 373 In determining whether the allocation
provisions of the final rule will have a significant economic impact on a substantial
number of small banking organizations, the Federal banking agencies reviewed June 30,
2014, consolidated reports of condition and income (“Call Report”) data to evaluate the
securitization activity and approximate the number of small banking organizations that
potentially could retain credit risk under allocation provisions of the final rule. 374 As of
June 30, 2014, the Call Report data indicates that approximately 763 small banking
organizations, 493 of which are state nonmember banks, originate loans for securitization
which are largely ABS issuances collateralized by one-to-four family residential
mortgages. Many of these originators sell their loans either to Fannie Mae or Freddie
Mac, which retain credit risk through agency guarantees, and therefore will not be
allocated credit risk under the final rule. Additionally, based on publicly available
market data, it appears that most residential mortgage-backed securities offerings are
collateralized by a pool of mortgages with an unpaid aggregate principal balance of at

373

With respect to an open market CLO transaction, the risk retention retained by the
originator must be at least 20 percent of the aggregate principal balance at origination of
a CLO-eligible loan tranche.

374

Call Report Schedule RC–S provides information on the servicing, securitization, and
asset sale activities of banking organizations. For purposes of the RFA analysis, the
agencies gathered and evaluated data regarding (1) the outstanding principal balance of
assets sold and securitized by the reporting entity with servicing retained or with recourse
or other seller-provided credit enhancements, and (2) assets sold with recourse or other
seller-provided credit enhancements and not securitized by the reporting bank.

409

least $500 million.375 Accordingly, under the final rule a sponsor could potentially
allocate a portion of the risk retention requirement to a small banking organization only if
such organization originated at least 20 percent ($100 million) of the securitized
mortgages. As of June 30, 2014, only nine small banking organizations supervised by the
FDIC reported an outstanding principal balance of assets sold and not securitized by the
reporting bank of $100 million or more. 376
Therefore, the FDIC does not believe that the final rule will result in a significant
economic impact on a substantial number of small banking organizations under its
supervisory jurisdiction. The FDIC certifies that the final rule will not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial number of small FDIC-supervised institutions.
Commission: The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 requires the Commission,
in promulgating rules, to consider the impact of those rules on small entities. An initial
Regulatory Flexibility Act Analysis was prepared in accordance with the Regulatory
Flexibility Act and included in the re-proposing release. The Commission certified in the
re-proposing release, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b), that the proposed rule, if adopted,

375

Based on the data provided in Table 1, page 29 of the Board’s October 2010 Report
covering 2002 through 2010 entitled, ‘‘Report to the Congress on Risk Retention,’’ it
appears that the average RMBS issuance is collateralized by a pool of approximately
$620 million in mortgage loans (for prime RMBS issuances) or approximately $690
million in mortgage loans (for subprime RMBS issuances). For purposes of the RFA
analysis, the agencies used an average asset pool size of $500 million to account for
reductions in mortgage securitization activity following 2007, and to add an element of
conservatism to the analysis.

376

The FDIC notes that this finding assumes that all assets originated by small banking
organizations reported on RC-S as being sold, whether or not securitized by the reporting
bank, would be subject to the 5 percent risk retention requirement (and would not qualify
for an exemption from the risk retention requirements under the final rule).

410

would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
The Commission received one comment 377 on this certification.
The final rule implements the risk retention requirements of section 15G of the
Exchange Act, which, in general, requires the securitizer of asset-backed securities (ABS)
to retain not less than 5 percent of the credit risk of the assets collateralizing the ABS. 378
Under the final rule, the risk retention requirements apply to “sponsors”, as defined in the
final rule. Based on the analysis set forth in the original proposal and the reproposal, the

Commission continues to believe that the final rule would not have a significant
economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
Some commenters on the re-proposal expressed concern that the re-proposed risk
retention requirements could indirectly affect the costs and availability of credit to small
businesses and the availability of mortgage credit to low- to moderate-income
buyers. The Regulatory Flexibility Act only requires an agency to consider regulatory
alternatives for those small entities subject to the final rule. The Commission has
considered the broader economic impact of the final rule, including their potential effect
on efficiency, competition and capital formation, in the Commission’s Economic
Analysis below.

377

One commenter urged the agencies to develop the required Regulatory Flexibility Act
analysis to accurately assess the impact on small entities of the QM-plus approach to
define QRM, if the agencies adopt such approach. The agencies are not adopting the
QM-plus approach to define QRM.

378

See 17 U.S.C. 78o-11.

411

For the reasons described above, the Commission again hereby certifies, pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 605(b), that the final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a
substantial number of small entities.
FHFA: FHFA has considered the impact of the final rule on the entities that it
regulates, none of which come within the meaning of small entities as defined in the
Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA). See 5 U.S.C. 601(6). Pursuant to section 605(b) of
the RFA, FHFA hereby certifies that the final rule will not have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small entities.
B. Paperwork Reduction Act
1.

Background

Certain provisions of the final rule contain “collection of information”
requirements within the meaning of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”), 44
U.S.C. 3501-3521. In accordance with the requirements of the PRA, the agencies may
not conduct or sponsor, and the respondent is not required to respond to, an information
collection unless it displays a currently valid Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
control number. The agencies published a notice requesting comment on the collection
of information requirements in the Original Proposal and the Revised Proposal, and the
information collection requirements contained in this joint final rule have been submitted
by the FDIC, OCC, and the Commission to OMB for approval under section 3507(d) of
the PRA and section 1320.11 of OMB’s implementing regulations (5 CFR part 1320).
The Board reviewed the rule under the authority delegated to the Board by OMB. While
commenters provided qualitative comments on the possible costs of the rule, the agencies
did not receive any quantitative comments on the PRA analysis.

412

2. Information Collection
Title of Information Collection: Credit Risk Retention.
Frequency of response: Event generated; annual.
Affected Public: 379
FDIC: Insured state non-member banks, insured state branches of foreign banks,
state savings associations, and certain subsidiaries of these entities.
OCC: National banks, Federal savings associations, Federal branches or agencies
of foreign banks, or any operating subsidiary thereof.
Board: Insured state member banks, bank holding companies, savings and loan
holding companies, Edge and agreement corporations, foreign banking
organizations, nonbank financial companies supervised by the Board, and any
subsidiary thereof.
Commission: All entities other than those assigned to the FDIC, OCC, or Board.
Abstract: The rule sets forth permissible forms of risk retention for securitizations
that involve issuance of asset-backed securities, as well as exemptions from the risk
retention requirements, and contains requirements subject to the PRA. The information
requirements in the joint regulations adopted by the three Federal banking agencies and
the Commission are found in sections __.4, __.5, __.6, __.7, __.8, __.9, __.10, __.11,
__.13, __.15, __.16, __.17, __.18, and __.19(g). The agencies believe that the disclosure
and recordkeeping requirements associated with the various forms of risk retention will

379

The affected public of the FDIC, OCC, and Board is assigned generally in accordance
with the entities covered by the scope and authority section of their respective rule. The
affected public of the Commission is based on those entities not already accounted for by
the FDIC, OCC, and Board.

413

enhance market discipline, help ensure the quality of the assets underlying a
securitization transaction, and assist investors in evaluating transactions. Compliance
with the information collections is mandatory. Responses to the information collections
will not be kept confidential and, except for the recordkeeping requirements set forth in
sections __.4(d), __.5(k)(3) and __.15(d), there will be no mandatory retention period for
the collections of information.
3. Section-by-Section Analysis
Section __.4 sets forth the conditions that must be met by sponsors electing to use
the standard risk retention option, which may consist of an eligible vertical interest or an
eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof. Sections __.4(c)(1) and
__.4(c)(2) specify the disclosures required with respect to eligible horizontal residual
interests and eligible vertical interests, respectively.
A sponsor retaining any eligible horizontal residual interest (or funding a
horizontal cash reserve account) is required to disclose: the fair value (or a range of fair
values and the method used to determine such range) of the eligible horizontal residual
interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction
(§__.4(c)(1)(i)(A)); the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest
(§__.4(c)(1)(i)(B)); the methodology used to calculate the fair value (or range of fair
values) of all classes of ABS interests (§__.4(c)(1)(i)(C)); the key inputs and assumptions
used in measuring the estimated total fair value (or range of fair values) of all classes of
ABS interests (§__.4(c)(1)(i)(D)); the reference data set or other historical information
used to develop the key inputs and assumptions (§__.4(c)(1)(i)(G)); the fair value of the
eligible horizontal residual interest retained by the sponsor (§__.4(c)(1)(ii)(A)); the fair

414

value of the eligible horizontal residual interest required to be retained by the sponsor
(§__.4(c)(1)(ii)(B)); description of any material differences between the methodology
used in calculating the fair value disclosed prior to sale and the methodology used to
calculate the fair value at the time of closing (§__.4(c)(1)(ii)(C)); and the amount placed
by the sponsor in the horizontal cash reserve account at closing, the fair value of the
eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor is required to fund through such
account, and a description of such account (§__.4(c)(1)(iii)).
For eligible vertical interests, the sponsor is required to disclose: the form of the
eligible vertical interest (§__.4(c)(2)(i)(A)); the percentage that the sponsor is required to
retain (§__.4(c)(2)(i)(B)); a description of the material terms of the vertical interest and
the amount the sponsor expects to retain at closing(§__.4(c)(2)(i)(C)); and the amount of
vertical interest retained by the sponsor at closing ((§__.4(c)(2)(ii)).
Section __.4(d) requires a sponsor to retain the certifications and disclosures
required in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section in its records and must provide the
disclosure upon request to the Commission and the sponsor’s appropriate Federal
banking agency, if any, until three years after no ABS interests are outstanding.
Section __.5 requires sponsors relying on the master trust (or revolving pool
securitization) risk retention option to disclose: the material terms of the seller’s interest
and the percentage of the seller’s interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing
of the transaction (§__.5(k)(1)(i)); the percentage of the seller’s interest that the sponsor
retained at closing (§__.5(k)(1)(ii)); the material terms of any horizontal risk retention
offsetting the seller’s interest under §__.5(g), §__.5(h) and §__.5(i) (§__.5(k)(1)(iii)); and
the fair value of any horizontal risk retention retained by the sponsor (§__.5(k)(1)(iv)).

415

Additionally, a sponsor must retain the disclosures required in §__.5(k)(1) in its records
and must provide the disclosure upon request to the Commission and the sponsor’s
appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, until three years after no ABS interests are
outstanding (§__.5(k)(3)).
Section __.6 addresses the requirements for sponsors utilizing the eligible ABCP
conduit risk retention option. The requirements for the eligible ABCP conduit risk
retention option include disclosure to each purchaser of ABCP and periodically to each
holder of commercial paper issued by the ABCP conduit of the name and form of
organization of the regulated liquidity provider that provides liquidity coverage to the
eligible ABCP conduit, including a description of the material terms of such liquidity
coverage, and notice of any failure to fund; and with respect to each ABS interest held by
the ABCP conduit, the asset class or brief description of the underlying securitized assets,
the standard industrial category code for each originator-seller that retains an interest in
the securitization transaction, and a description of the percentage amount and form of
interest retained by each originator-seller (§__.6(d)(1)). An ABCP conduit sponsor
relying upon this section shall provide, upon request, to the Commission and the
sponsor’s appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the information required under
§__.6(d)(1), in addition to the name and form of organization of each originator-seller
that retains an interest in the securitization transaction (§__.6(d)(2)).
A sponsor relying on the eligible ABCP conduit risk retention option shall
maintain and adhere to policies and procedures to monitor compliance by each originatorseller (§__.6(f)(2)(i)). If the ABCP conduit sponsor determines that an originator-seller is
no longer in compliance, the sponsor must promptly notify the holders of the ABCP, and

416

upon request, the Commission and the sponsor’s appropriate Federal banking agency, in
writing of the name and form of organization of any originator-seller that fails to retain,
and the amount of ABS interests issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller
and held by the ABCP conduit (§__.6(f)(2)(ii)(A)(1)); the name and form of organization
of any originator-seller that hedges, directly or indirectly through an intermediate SPV,
its risk retention in violation of the rule, and the amount of ABS interests issued by an
intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held by the ABCP conduit
(§__.6(f)(2)(ii)(A)(2)); and any remedial actions taken by the ABCP conduit sponsor or
other party with respect to such ABS interests (§__.6(f)(2)(ii)(A)(3)).
Section __.7 sets forth the requirements for sponsors relying on the commercial
mortgage-backed securities risk retention option, and includes disclosures of: the name
and form of organization of each initial third-party purchaser (§__.7(b)(7)(i)); each initial
third-party purchaser’s experience in investing in commercial mortgage-backed securities
(§__.7(b)(7)(ii)); other material information (§__.7(b)(7)(iii)); the fair value and purchase
price of the eligible horizontal residual interest retained by each third-party purchaser,
and the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor would have
retained if the sponsor had relied on retaining an eligible horizontal residual interest
under the standard risk retention option (§__.7(b)(7)(iv) and (v)); a description of the
material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest retained by each initial thirdparty purchaser, including the same information as is required to be disclosed by sponsors
retaining horizontal interests pursuant to §__.4 (§__.7(b)(7)(vi)); the material terms of the
applicable transaction documents with respect to the Operating Advisor
(§__.7(b)(7)(vii)); and representations and warranties concerning the securitized assets, a

417

schedule of any securitized assets that are determined not to comply with such
representations and warranties, and the factors used to determine that such securitized
assets should be included in the pool notwithstanding that they did not comply with the
representations and warranties (§__.7(b)(7)(viii)). A sponsor relying on the commercial
mortgage-backed securities risk retention option is also required to provide in the
underlying securitization transaction documents certain provisions related to the
Operating Advisor (§__.7(b)(6)), to maintain and adhere to policies and procedures to
monitor compliance by third-party purchasers with regulatory requirements
(§__.7(c)(2)(A)), and to notify the holders of the ABS interests in the event of
noncompliance by a third-party purchaser with such regulatory requirements
(§__.7(c)(2)(B)).
Section __.8 requires that a sponsor relying on the Federal National Mortgage
Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation risk retention option must
disclose a description of the manner in which it has met the credit risk retention
requirements (§__.8(c)).
Section __.9 sets forth the requirements for sponsors relying on the open market
CLO risk retention option, and includes disclosures of a complete list of, and certain
information related to, every asset held by an open market CLO (§__.9(d)(1)), and the
full legal name and form of organization of the CLO manager (§__.9(d)(2)).
Section __.10 sets forth the requirements for sponsors relying on the qualified
tender option bond risk retention option, and includes disclosures of the name and form
of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity, a description of the form and
subordination features of the retained interest in accordance with the disclosure

418

obligations in section __.4(d), the fair value of any portion of the retained interest that is
claimed by the sponsor as an eligible horizontal residual interest, and the percentage of
ABS interests issued that is represented by any portion of the retained interest that is
claimed by the sponsor as an eligible vertical interest (§__.10(e)(1)-(4)). In addition, to
the extent any portion of the retained interest claimed by the sponsor is a municipal
security held outside of the qualified tender option bond entity, the sponsor must disclose
the name and form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity, the identity
of the issuer of the municipal securities, the face value of the municipal securities
deposited into the qualified tender option bond entity, and the face value of the municipal
securities retained outside of the qualified tender option bond entity by the sponsor or its
majority-owned affiliates (§__.10(e)(5)).
Section __.11 sets forth the conditions that apply when the sponsor of a
securitization allocates to originators of securitized assets a portion of the credit risk the
sponsor is required to retain, including disclosure of the name and form of organization
of any originator that acquires and retains an interest in the transaction, a description of
the form, amount and nature of such interest, and the method of payment for such interest
(§__.11(a)(2)). A sponsor relying on this section is required to maintain and adhere to
policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to monitor originator compliance
with retention amount and hedging, transferring and pledging requirements
(§__.11(b)(2)(A)), and to promptly notify the holders of the ABS interests in the
transaction in the event of originator non-compliance with such regulatory requirements
(§__.11(b)(2)(B)).

419

Sections __.13 and __.19(g) provide exemptions from the risk retention
requirements for qualified residential mortgages and qualifying 3-to-4 unit residential
mortgage loans that meet certain specified criteria, including that the depositor with
respect to the securitization transaction certify that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its
internal supervisory controls and concluded that the controls are effective
(§§__.13(b)(4)(i) and __.19(g)(2)), and that the sponsor provide a copy of the
certification to potential investors prior to sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing
entity (§§__.13(b)(4)(iii) and __.19(g)(2)). In addition, §§__.13(c)(3) and __.19(g)(3)
provide that a sponsor that has relied upon the exemptions will not lose the exemptions if,
after closing of the transaction, it is determined that one or more of the residential
mortgage loans does not meet all of the criteria; provided that the depositor complies with
certain specified requirements, including prompt notice to the holders of the asset-backed
securities of any loan that is required to be repurchased by the sponsor, the amount of
such repurchased loan, and the cause for such repurchase.
Section __.15 provides exemptions from the risk retention requirements for
qualifying commercial loans that meet the criteria specified in Section __.16, qualifying
CRE loans that meet the criteria specified in Section __.17, and qualifying automobile
loans that meet the criteria specified in Section __.18. Section __.15 also requires the
sponsor to disclose a description of the manner in which the sponsor determined the
aggregate risk retention requirement for the securitization transaction after including
qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans with
0 percent risk retention (§__.15(a)(4)). In addition, the sponsor is required to disclose
descriptions of the qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, and qualifying

420

automobile loans (“qualifying assets”), and descriptions of the assets that are not
qualifying assets, and the material differences between the group of qualifying assets and
the group of assets that are not qualifying assets with respect to the composition of each
group’s loan balances, loan terms, interest rates, borrower credit information, and
characteristics of any loan collateral (§__.15(b)(3)). Additionally, a sponsor must retain
the disclosures required in §§__.15(a) and (b) in its records and must provide the
disclosure upon request to the Commission and the sponsor’s appropriate Federal
banking agency, if any, until three years after no ABS interests are outstanding
(§__.15(d)).
Sections __.16, __.17 and __.18 each require that: the depositor of the assetbacked security certify that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory
controls and concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective
(§§__.16(a)(8)(i), __.17(a)(10)(i), and __.18(a)(8)(i)); the sponsor is required to provide a
copy of the certification to potential investors prior to the sale of asset-backed securities
in the issuing entity (§§__.16(a)(8)(iii), __.17(a)(10)(iii), and __.18(a)(8)(iii)); and the
sponsor must promptly notify the holders of the asset-backed securities of any loan
included in the transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor,
including the principal amount of such loan and the cause for such cure or repurchase
(§§__.16(b)(3), __.17(b)(3), and __.18(b)(3)). Additionally, a sponsor must retain the
disclosures required in §§__.16(a)(8), __.17(a)(10) and __.18(a)(8) in its records and
must provide the disclosure upon request to the Commission and the sponsor’s
appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, until three years after no ABS interests are
outstanding (§__.15(d)).

421

4. Estimated Paperwork Burden
Estimated Burden Per Response:
§__.4 - Standard risk retention: horizontal interests: recordkeeping – 0.5 hours,
disclosures – 5.5 hours; vertical interests: recordkeeping – 0.5 hours, disclosures – 2.0
hours; combined horizontal and vertical interests: recordkeeping – 0.5 hours, disclosures
– 7.5 hours.
§__.5 – Revolving master trusts: recordkeeping – 0.5 hours; disclosures – 7.0 hours.
§__.6 – Eligible ABCP conduits: recordkeeping – 20.0 hours; disclosures – 3.0 hours.
§__.7 – Commercial mortgage-backed securities: recordkeeping – 30.0 hours;
disclosures – 20.75 hours.
§__.8 – Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation ABS: disclosures - 1.5 hours.
§__.9 – Open market CLOs: disclosures – 20.25 hours.
§__.10 – Qualified tender option bonds: disclosures – 6.0 hours.
§__.11 – Allocation of risk retention to an originator: recordkeeping 20.0 hours;
disclosures 2.5 hours.
§§__.13 and __.19(g) – Exemption for qualified residential mortgages and qualifying 3to-4 unit residential mortgage loans: recordkeeping – 40.0 hours; disclosures 1.25 hours.
§__.15 – Exemption for qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and
automobile loans: disclosure – 20.0 hours; recordkeeping – 0.5 hour.
§__.16 – Underwriting standards for qualifying commercial loans: recordkeeping – 40.5
hours; disclosures – 1.25 hours.

422

§__.17– Underwriting standards for qualifying CRE loans: recordkeeping – 40.5 hours;
disclosures – 1.25 hours.
§__.18 – Underwriting standards for qualifying automobile loans: recordkeeping – 40.5
hours; disclosures – 1.25 hours.
FDIC
Estimated Number of Respondents: 32 sponsors; 153 annual offerings per year.
Total Estimated Annual Burden: 3,235 hours.
OCC
Estimated Number of Respondents: 35 sponsors; 166 annual offerings per year.
Total Estimated Annual Burden: 3,444 hours.
Board
Estimated Number of Respondents: 22 sponsors; 102 annual offerings per year.
Total Estimated Annual Burden: 2,114 hours.
Commission
Estimated Number of Respondents: 181 sponsors; 854 annual offerings per year.
Total Estimated Annual Burden: 17,768 hours.
Commission’s explanation of the calculation:
To determine the total paperwork burden for the requirements contained in this
rule the agencies first estimated the universe of sponsors that would be required to
comply with the disclosure and recordkeeping requirements. The agencies estimate that
approximately 270 unique sponsors conduct ABS offerings each year. This estimate was
based on the average number of ABS offerings from 2004 through 2013 reported by the
ABS database Asset-Backed Alert for all non-CMBS transactions and by Commercial

423

Mortgage Alert for all CMBS transactions. Of the 270 sponsors, the agencies have
assigned 8 percent of these sponsors to the Board, 12 percent to the FDIC, 13 percent to
the OCC, and 67 percent to the Commission.380
Next, the agencies estimated the burden per response that is associated with each
disclosure and recordkeeping requirement, and then estimated how frequently the entities
would make the required disclosure by estimating the proportionate amount of offerings
per year for each agency. In making this determination, the estimate was based on the
average number of ABS offerings from 2004 through 2013 and, therefore, the agencies
estimate the total number of annual offerings per year to be 1,275. 381 The agencies also
made the following additional estimates:
•

12 offerings per year will be subject to disclosure and recordkeeping
requirements under §__.11, which are divided equally among the four
agencies (i.e., 3 offerings per year per agency);

•

100 offerings per year will be subject to disclosure and recordkeeping
requirements under §§__.13 and __.19(g), which are divided
proportionately among the agencies based on the entity percentages
described above (i.e., 8 offerings per year subject to §§__.13 and __.19(g)

380

The allocation percentages among the agencies have been adjusted based on the
agencies’ latest assessment of more recent data, including the securitization activity
reported by FDIC-insured depository institutions in the June 30, 2014 Consolidated
Reports of Condition.
381

Based on ABS issuance data from Asset-Backed Alert on the initial terms of
offerings, supplemented with information from Commercial Mortgage Alert. This
estimate includes registered offerings, offerings made under Securities Act Rule 144A,
and traditional private placements. This estimate is for offerings that are not exempted
under §§ _.19(a)-(f) and _.20 of the rule.

424

for the Board; 12 offerings per year subject to §§__.13 and __.19(g) for
the FDIC; 13 offerings per year subject to §§__.13 and __.19(g) for the
OCC; and 67 offerings per year subject to §§__.13 and __.19(g) for the
Commission); and
•

120 offerings per year will be subject to the disclosure requirements under
§__.15, which are divided proportionately among the agencies based on
the entity percentages described above (i.e., 10 offerings per year subject
to §__.15 for the Board, 14 offerings per year subject to §__.15 for the
FDIC; 16 offerings per year subject to §__.15 for the OCC, and 80
offerings per year subject to §__.15 for the Commission. Of these 120
offerings per year, 40 offerings per year will be subject to disclosure and
recordkeeping requirements under §§__.16, __.17, and __.18, respectively,
which are divided proportionately among the agencies based on the entity
percentages described above (i.e., 3 offerings per year subject to each
section for the Board, 5 offerings per year subject to each section for the
FDIC; 5 offerings per year subject to each section for the OCC, and 27
offerings per year subject to each section for the Commission).

To obtain the estimated number of responses (equal to the number of offerings)
for each option in subpart B of the rule, the agencies multiplied the number of offerings
estimated to be subject to the base risk retention requirements (i.e., 1,055) 382 by the
sponsor percentages described above. The result was the number of base risk retention
382

Estimate of 1,275 offerings per year minus the estimate of the number of offerings
qualifying for an exemption under §§__.13, __.15, and 19(g) (220 total).

425

offerings per year per agency. For the Commission, this was calculated by multiplying
1,055 offerings per year by 67 percent, which equals 707 offerings per year. This number
was then divided by the number of base risk retention options under subpart B of the rule
(i.e., nine) 383 to arrive at the estimate of the number of offerings per year per agency per
base risk retention option. For the Commission, this was calculated by dividing 707
offerings per year by nine options, resulting in 79 offerings per year per base risk
retention option.
The total estimated annual burden for each agency was then calculated by
multiplying the number of offerings per year per section for such agency by the number
of burden hours estimated for the respective section, then adding these subtotals together.
For example, under §__.10, the Commission multiplied the estimated number of offerings
per year for §__.10 (i.e., 79 offerings per year) by the estimated annual frequency of the
response for §__.10 of one response, and then by the disclosure burden hour estimate for
§__.10 of 6.0 hours. Thus, the estimated annual burden hours for respondents to which
the Commission accounts for the burden hours under §__.10 is 474 hours (79 * 1 * 6.0
hours = 474 hours).
For disclosures made at the time of the securitization transaction, 384 the
Commission allocates 25 percent of these hours (1,773 hours) to internal burden for all

383

For purposes of this calculation, the horizontal, vertical, and combined horizontal and
vertical risk retention methods under the standard risk retention option are each counted
as a separate option under subpart B of the rule.

384

These are the disclosures required by §§_.4 (c)(1)(i) and (iii), and (c)(2)(i) (as
applicable to horizontal interests, vertical interests, or any combination of horizontal and
vertical interests); §§_.5(k)(1)(i), (iii) and (iv) ; _.6(d); _.7(b)(7)(i) through (viii); _.8(c);
426

sponsors. For the remaining 75 percent of these hours, (5,319 hours), the Commission
uses an estimate of $400 per hour for external costs for retaining outside professionals
totaling $2,127,750. For disclosures made after the time of sale in a securitization
transaction, 385 the Commission allocated 75 percent of the total estimated burden hours
(1,565 hours) to internal burden for all sponsors. For the remaining 25 percent of these
hours (522 hours), the Commission uses an estimate of $400 per hour for external costs
for retaining outside professionals totaling $208,650.
FHFA: The rule does not contain any FHFA information collection requirement that
requires the approval of OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act.
HUD: The rule does not contain any HUD information collection requirement that
requires the approval of OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act.
C. Commission Economic Analysis
1. Introduction
Pursuant to Section 15G (Section 15G) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(Exchange Act), as added by Section 941(b) of the Dodd-Frank Act, the agencies are
jointly prescribing regulations that (i) require a sponsor to retain not less than 5 percent of
the credit risk of any asset that the sponsor, through the issuance of an asset-backed
security, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party, and (ii) prohibit a sponsor from
directly or indirectly hedging or otherwise transferring the credit risk that the sponsor is
_.9(d); 10(e); _.11(a)(2); _.13(b)(4)(iii); _.15(a)(4) and (b)(3); _.16(a)(8)(iii);
_.17(a)(10)(iii); _.18(a)(8)(iii); and __.19(g)(2).
385

These are the disclosures required by §§_.4 (c)(1)(ii) and (c)(2)(ii) (as applicable to
horizontal interests, vertical interests, or any combination of horizontal and vertical
interests); §§ _.5(k)(1)(ii); _.6(f)(2)(ii); _.7(c)(2)(B); _.9(d)(1); _.11(b)(2)(B); _13(c)(3);
_.16(b)(3); _17(b)(3); _.18(b)(3); and __.19(g)(3).

427

required to retain under Section 15G and the agencies’ implementing rules. 386 Section
15G also exempts certain types of securitization transactions from these risk retention
requirements and authorizes the agencies to exempt or establish a lower risk retention
requirement for other types of securitization transactions.
The Commission is sensitive to the economic impacts, including the costs and
benefits, of its rules. The discussion below addresses the economic effects of the final
rule, including the likely benefits and costs of the rule as well as their effects on
efficiency, competition and capital formation. Some of the economic effects stem from
the statutory mandate of Section 15G, whereas others are affected by the discretion the
agencies have exercised in implementing this mandate. These two types of impacts may
not be entirely separable to the extent that the agencies’ discretion is exercised to realize
the goals of Section 15G.
Section 23(a)(2) of the Exchange Act requires the Commission, when making
rules under the Exchange Act, to consider the impact on competition that the rules would
have, and prohibits the Commission from adopting any rule that would impose a burden
on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the Exchange Act. 387
Further, Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act requires the Commission, 388 when engaging in
rulemaking where it is required to consider or determine whether an action is necessary
or appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of investors,
whether the action will promote efficiency, competition and capital formation.

386

See 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(b), (c)(1)(A) and (c)(1)(B).

387

15 U.S.C. 78w(a).

388

17 U.S.C. 78c(f).

428

While we make every reasonable attempt to quantify the economic impact of the
rule that we are adopting, we are unable to do so for several components of the new rule
due to the lack of available data. We also recognize that several components of the new
rule are designed to change existing market practices and as a result, existing data may
not provide a basis to fully assess the rule’s economic impact. Specifically, the rule’s
effects will depend on how sponsors, issuers, investors, and other parties to the
transactions (e.g., originators, trustees, underwriters, and other parties that facilitate
transactions between borrowers, issuers and investors) will adjust on a long-term basis to
this new rule and the resulting evolving conditions. The ways in which these parties
could adjust, and the associated effects, are complex and interrelated. As a result, we are
unable to predict them with specificity nor are we able to quantify them at this time.
2. Broad Economic Considerations
a. Policy Goals of the Risk Retention Requirement
Asset-backed securitizations play an important role in the creation of credit by
increasing the amount of capital available for the origination of loans and other
receivables 389 through the transfer of those assets– in exchange for new capital – to other
market participants. The intended benefits of the securitization process include reduced
cost of credit and expanded access to credit for borrowers, ability to match risk profiles of

389

While most securitized assets are loans or other extensions of credit, other assets are
routinely securitized. This discussion focuses on loans because they are the most
commonly securitized assets and their impact is more widespread. The Commission
believes that the impact on other kinds of receivables should be similar.

429

securities to investors’ specific demands, and increased secondary market liquidity for
loans and other receivables. 390
Asset-backed securitizations can also generate significant risks to the economy.
Indeed, many observers claim that the “originate-to-distribute” model underlying
securitization for some asset classes contributed to the onset of the financial crisis. 391
The informational asymmetries in securitization markets generated between the borrower
and the investors in the asset-backed securities, who are the ultimate providers of credit,
give rise to the moral hazard problem of loan originators or securitization sponsors
incurring risks in the underwriting or securitization process for which they did not bear
the consequence. Loan originators who establish and enforce the underwriting standards
are best able to understand the potential consequences of their credit decisions. If loan
originators hold the loans they originated, then they are more likely to exercise
appropriate care in evaluating the credit quality of the loan, including the borrower’s
ability to repay. However, if the originator can sell the loan, the originator has less
incentive to screen borrowers carefully. Likewise, sponsors have limited incentives to
accurately assess the actual risks of the loans they purchase from originators because the
consequences of their decisions are passed on to the investors in the asset-backed
securities. Further, because both loan originators and asset-backed securities sponsors
are compensated on the basis of volume rather than quality of underwriting, there are

390

See, e.g., Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, “Report to the Congress
on Risk Retention” (October 2010) and Financial Stability Oversight Committee,
“Macroeconomic Effects of Risk Retention Requirements” (January 2011).
391

Purnanandam, “Originate-to-Distribute Model and the Sub-Prime Mortgage Crisis”,
24(6) REV. FIN. STUD. 1881–1915 (2011).

430

economic incentives to originate and securitize as many loans as possible. Consequently,
default risk is less important to the market participants originating and securitizing loans.
In addition to this fundamental moral hazard problem, other features of the
securitization market contribute to the risks posed by these financing transactions. The
ultimate investors in the securitized assets have access to less information about the credit
quality and other relevant characteristics of the borrowers than either the originator or
sponsor, and may not have effective recourse when the assets do not perform as expected.
Moreover, in the early 2000s, demand from securitization sponsors for additional assets
to securitize encouraged originators to focus capital towards higher risk assets, including
the sub-prime residential mortgage market, which serves the mortgage needs of
individuals who are less creditworthy than typical home buyers. 392 The effects of these
incentives were compounded by the entry of new market originators and sponsors with
varying amounts of experience and capacity to effectively evaluate credit risk.
The moral hazard problem may be especially severe when there are inadequate
processes in place to elicit sufficient transparency about the assets or securitization
structure to overcome informational differences. In these cases, the securitization process
can misalign incentives so that the welfare of some participants is maximized at the
expense of other participants. Many of these risks are not adequately disclosed to
investors in securitizations, an issue compounded as sponsors introduce increasingly

392

Dell’Ariccia, Deniz and Laeven, “Credit Booms and Lending Standards: Evidence
from the Subprime Mortgage Market”, Journal of Money, Credit and Banking, vol. 44,
no. 2-3, pp. 367–384, March-April 2012; Mian and Sufi, “The Consequences of
Mortgage Credit Expansion: Evidence from the 2007 Mortgage Default Crisis”,
Quarterly Journal of Economics 2009, vol. 124, no. 4, pp. 1449–1496.

431

complex structures. 393 The financial crisis also revealed that credit rating agencies had
generally not appropriately evaluated the credit risk of certain asset-backed securities. In
particular, credit rating agencies assigned high ratings on the senior classes of RMBS or
CDOs backed by RMBS that were subsequently not supported by the actual performance
of those securities. 394
Requiring the retention of credit risk by sponsors of asset-backed securities is
intended to address these misaligned incentives by requiring originators and sponsors of
asset-backed securities to internalize some of the same risks faced by the investors in
those asset-backed securities. For example, risk-averse sponsors will be reluctant to
absorb the uncertain payouts associated with high-risk loans. In order to limit their
exposure to loans with high default risk, these sponsors will be incentivized to scrutinize
loan originators’ loans and underwriting procedures more carefully. 395 Under the risk

393

Furfine, Complexity and Loan Performance: Evidence from the Securitization of
Commercial Mortgages, Review of Corporate Finance Studies, v. 2, no. 2, March 2014,
pp. 154-187; Ghent, Torous, and Valkanov, Complexity in Structured Finance: Financial
Wizardry or Smoke and Mirrors? (2013, Working Paper, available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2325835).

394

See, e.g., Benmelech and Dlugosz, 2010, The Credit Rating Crisis, Chapter 3 of
NBER Macroeconomics Annual 2009, Vol. 24, pp. 161–207, Acemoglu, Rogoff and
Woodford, eds., University of Chicago Press; Bolton, Freixas and Shapiro, “The Credit
Ratings Game”, Journal of Finance, vol. 67, no. 1, pp. 85–111, February 2012; Griffin
and Tang, “Did Subjectivity Play a Role in CDO Credit Ratings?”, Journal of Finance,
vol. 67, no. 4, pp. 1293–1328, August 2012.
395

Likewise, if the originator were required to share in the pool’s risk, or were required
to buy back loans that did not meet pre-specified underwriting standards, the originator
could be incentivized to exercise more care in making loans. However, because such
arrangements are unfunded, they may not effectively mitigate the moral hazard problem
described above, and investors may not benefit from the credit protection because the
obligor under the unfunded obligations may not be able to fulfill those obligations when
432

retention requirements, securitized loans should therefore be less subject to the lax
lending and credit enhancement standards that imposed large losses on asset-backed
securities (in particular, RMBS) investors during the financial crisis. By requiring
sponsors to retain credit exposure to the securitized assets, risk retention is intended to
ensure that sponsors have “skin in the game” and thus are economically motivated to be
more judicious in their selection of loans being securitized, thereby helping to produce
asset-backed securities collateralized by loans with higher underwriting standards. More
generally, when a sponsor or originator with better information about the securitized
loans is required to hold some of the same risks being transferred to asset-backed
securities investors, those investors should be subject to lower risks. When a sponsor
shares the risk of the securitized loans with asset-backed securities investors, the sponsor
is more likely to be aware of the exact nature and scope of the potential risks, and
therefore to be in a position to provide those investors with more accurately represented
risks.
b. Potential Economic Effects of Requiring Risk Retention
Mandatory risk retention reflects a belief that sponsors of asset-backed securities
have a more accurate assessment of the underlying assets’ risk properties than can be
attained by their ultimate investors. This information asymmetry can have adverse
market effects to the extent that sponsors seek to profit from their differential
information. Some observers contend that during the financial crisis, sponsors sold assets
that they knew to be very risky, without conveying that information to ABS investors.

they come due. Consequently, the agencies have not recognized these arrangements as
acceptable forms of risk retention.

433

One way to offset information asymmetries is to require that sponsors retain some “skin
in the game,” through which loan performance can affect sponsors’ profits as much as –
or more than – those of the ABS investors.
The standard forms of risk retention in the final rule include a vertical option, a
horizontal option, or a combination of a vertical option and a horizontal option.
Sponsors’ choice of a particular risk retention option will depend on tradeoffs among
direct costs, the sponsors’ required returns on capital, and investors’ uncertainty about the
quality of the underlying loan pool. In turn, the overall economic impact of requiring risk
retention will depend on the form in which it is held by sponsors. 396 A sponsor relying
exclusively on the vertical risk retention option will hold 5 percent of every tranche, from
the senior tranche to the residual interest, and shares the same credit risk as investors in
every tranche. The retention of a 5 percent vertical slice of ABS securities ties the
sponsor’s profits to the underlying assets’ default rates. For any given securitization of
assets characterized by a fixed set of underlying loan interest rates, the ABS sponsor
earns less if the loans default at a higher-than-expected rate. This gives the sponsor an
enhanced incentive to be sure that the loan interest rates accurately reflect the loans’
expected default rates. ABS investors can therefore be more confident that their ABS
interests will perform as promised when the ABS sponsor retains a vertical slide of risk.
In other words, the information asymmetry between sponsor and investors is ameliorated

396

See Section 5.a of this Economic Analysis for further detailed discussion of the
economic effects associated with the different options of standard risk retention. Section
5.b discusses additional forms of risk retention available to sponsors of certain
securitization structures, including revolving pool securitizations, tender option bonds,
and asset-backed commercial paper conduits.

434

by the risk retention requirement, which leads the sponsor to make sure that loan interest
rates reflect their expected default probabilities. 397
An eligible horizontal residual interest, or EHRI, is the most subordinated
tranche(s) of a securitization, which exposes the owner to a disproportionate share of
losses from the securitized loans. 398 A sponsor holding an EHRI will suffer greater
default losses from a given percentage investment than from an equal percent investment
in a vertical slice, making it a more expensive form of risk retention. Horizontal risk
retention is nonetheless the norm in some market segments because ABS investors’
beliefs about the quality of loans in the securitization are influenced by the ABS
sponsor’s exposure to credit losses. Investors can therefore be more confident that the
underlying assets are high-quality when the sponsor retains a larger subordinate
exposure. 399 In other words, the sponsor “signals” to ABS investors its belief that
defaults will be low by taking a larger, but junior, claim on the portfolio’s cash flows.
In general, although ABS investors may find it difficult to assess the securitized
assets’ risks on their own, sponsors can signal the quality of the underlying assets by

397

If sponsors are risk-averse, vertical risk retention might also discourage them from
securitizing higher-risk loans. See below.

398

Sponsors also share credit risk in a horizontal manner through overcollateralization,
subordinated management fees, or other arrangements. Many of such arrangements are
unfunded, however, and consequently, the agencies have not recognized them as
acceptable forms of risk retention.
399

Two papers provide evidence that risk retention by a lead underwriter affects the risks
perceived by other, less informed, members of the syndicate. Victoria Ivashina, 2009,
Asymmetric information effects on loan spreads, Journal of Financial Economics, vol.
92, no. 2, pp. 300–319; Amir Sufi, 2007, Information Asymmetry and Financing
Arrangements: Evidence from Syndicated Loans, The Journal of Finance, vol. 62, no. 2,
pp. 629–668.

435

purchasing a first loss position at a price that reflects its fundamental value only if loan
defaults turn out to be low. Relatively larger residual interest tranches may be required
when the assets being securitized suffer from more acute information asymmetries or
higher uncertainty about their true default risk. Horizontal risk retention forces the
sponsor to accept more default losses than an equal investment in vertical retention. But
the increased risk exposure permits a horizontal risk position to signal the pool’s asset
quality and, in turn, permits the securitization transaction to provide an economically
efficient source of funding for the sponsor.
We anticipate that the ultimate market impact of the credit risk retention
requirements will depend in part on the individual sponsor’s level of risk aversion and
required return on invested capital. Some sponsors may find that holding relatively more
risky assets would adversely impact their financial position. The risk retention
requirement will incentivize these sponsors to securitize assets with lower default risk.
Securitizing assets with lower anticipated losses would lessen the resulting credit risk
exposure for asset-backed securities investors. Higher-quality loan pools with more
homogenous risk characteristics would give sponsors more incentive to provide accurate
information about the pool’s risk characteristics. With less uncertainty about the quality
of securitized assets, investors should be willing to pay more or demand a lower rate of
return for bearing the credit risk, which in turn could reduce borrowing costs for
underlying borrowers. Thus, the net effect of reducing the moral hazard in a
securitization transaction may be to reduce the cost of loans for more creditworthy
borrowers.

436

The risk retention requirements, however, will not necessarily increase the quality
of all loan pools offered for securitization. Asset-backed securities investors may fund
riskier pools provided that they are properly compensated (in the form of higher promised
tranche returns). The market’s appetite for risk could lead sponsors to package high-risk
loans that can generate high expected returns. Sponsors with higher cost of capital may
also need to earn higher return on their retained tranches, which requires that the
underlying loans have higher interest rates, which tend to be riskier loans. Less
creditworthy borrowers could be required to pay higher loan interest rates than in the past
to the extent that the risk retention requires sponsors to more accurately account for the
potential losses associated with these riskier loans.
The effect of risk retention on borrowing costs will also depend on how
securitization investors react to the requirements of the final rule. If risk retention
increases investor confidence that incentives are properly aligned in the securitization
market, this should increase their likelihood of participating in the market, making more
capital available and increasing competition for issuances of asset-backed securities. As
a result, the higher prices paid for issuances will mitigate the costs imposed on sponsors
to retain credit risk. In the past, asset-backed security investors did not always have
accurate, timely or accessible information about securitized asset quality and in certain
instances were misled about the quality of those assets. 400 If risk retention results in the

400

See Piskorski, Seru, and Witkin, 2013, Asset Quality Misrepresentation by Financial
Intermediaries: Evidence from RMBS Market, NBER Working Paper No. 18843; and
Griffin and Maturana, Who Facilitated Misreporting in Securitized Loans? Journal of
Finance, forthcoming. Both papers find evidence of mortgage misreporting in non-agency
437

transmission of more accurate information about loan quality to investors (e.g., through
pricing of EHRIs, the level of horizontal risk retention, or fair value disclosures) and
allows asset-backed security investors to distinguish lower quality loans from higher
quality loans, then risk should be more efficiently priced in asset-backed security
markets.
Quantifying the potential impact of the credit risk retention on borrowing rates of
the loans underlying the asset-backed securities will depend on the tradeoff between the
costs associated with financing the additional capital required by sponsors to fund the
retained risk and its effect on the pricing of the asset-backed securities. For example, two
studies by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York estimate the potential impact of risk
retention on the cost of residential mortgage borrowing by estimating the change in
interest rates on securitized loans required to compensate for the sponsors’ risk retention
requirements. 401 The analyses suggest that incremental increases to sponsors’ rate of
return requirements for securitizations of residential mortgage loans with higher levels of
risk retention are relatively modest, approximately 0-30 basis points. 402 These estimates
suggest that the underlying loans would need to have an interest rate approximately 0.25
percent higher. As discussed above, however, risk retention will likely influence the

RMBS by both originators and underwriters; this misreporting was not priced by
investors at issuance and yet strongly predicted future RMBS losses.
401

See appendix A of the 2013 Reproposal, 78 FR at 58019.

402

This assessment assumes that the underlying loan pool characteristics are accurately
disclosed and with sufficient detail for investors to properly assess the underlying risk.
Such a scenario would be reflective of the risk retention requirements solving the moral
hazard problem that might otherwise result in the obfuscation of intrinsic risks to the
ultimate investors. These results also rely on specific assumptions about the return on
equity demanded by different types of sponsors.

438

composition of loan pools. Although the New York Fed studies do not incorporate this
effect, perceptibly higher quality loan pools will require less costly financing or lower
yielding asset-backed securities. Thus, the underlying loan interests rates may rise (due
to more risk being borne by the sponsor or high opportunity cost of capital for retained
capital) or fall (because the pool is higher quality). By contrast, to the extent that riskier
loans continue to be securitized even with the requirement to retain risk, the underlying
loan interest rates are likely to rise. Developments that make riskier loans more
expensive, at a cost commensurate to their intrinsic risk, will improve the efficiency of
capital markets.
Requiring sponsors to retain risk in the portfolios of assets they securitize could
impose significant costs on financial markets. Currently, sponsors who do not retain 5
percent of the securitization deploy those funds to other uses, such as repaying lines of
credit used to fund securitized loans, holding other assets or making new loans, which
may earn a different interest rate and have a different risk exposure. Tying up capital as a
result of the imposition of risk retention requirements could pose an opportunity cost to
sponsors who do not currently retain risk and could limit the volume of securitizations
that they can sponsor. These costs would likely be passed on to borrowers, either in
terms of increased borrowing costs or loss of access to credit. In particular, borrowers
whose loans do not qualify for an exemption from risk retention (e.g., those loans that do
not meet the underwriting criteria for being deemed a qualified asset) could face
increased borrowing costs, or be priced out of the loan market, thus restricting their
access to credit. As a result, there could be a negative impact on capital formation by
loan originators to the extent that it impedes the flow of capital from ABS investors,

439

particularly if credit is denied to creditworthy borrowers. More generally, if the costs are
deemed by sponsors to be significant enough that they would no longer be able to earn a
sufficiently high expected return by sponsoring securitizations, this form of supplying
capital to lenders would decline.
The net impact of requiring credit risk retention on capital markets and the costs
of credit will ultimately depend on the availability of alternative arrangements for
transferring capital to lenders and the costs of transferring capital to sponsors. For
example, the impact of the potential decrease in the use of securitizations in the
residential mortgage market would depend on the cost and availability to lenders of
alternative mortgage funding sources, and the willingness of these sponsors to retain the
full burden of the risks associated with credit risk retention and securitization. To the
extent there are funding alternatives, and these funding alternatives can provide funding
to lenders on terms similar to those available as a result of sponsors’ use of the
securitization markets, the impact of the substitution of these alternatives for
securitizations would likely be minimal. Similarly, to the extent that sponsors can find
sources of capital at costs similar to the returns paid on retained interests in
securitizations, the impact of risk retention requirements would likely be minimal.
Currently, there is no relevant and available empirical evidence to reliably estimate the
cost and consequence of either such outcome.
c. The Impact of Asset-Level Disclosure and Other Requirements of Revised
Regulation AB
On August 27, 2014, the Commission adopted significant revisions to Regulation
AB and other rules governing the offering process, disclosure, and reporting for asset-

440

backed securities. 403 Among other things, these revisions require that prospectuses for
registered offerings of asset-backed securities backed by residential and commercial
mortgages, auto loans and leases, or debt securities (including resecuritizations), and
ongoing reports with respect to such securities contain specified asset-level information
about each of the assets in the pool.
Increased transparency for these securitizations through the introduction of
enhanced disclosure requirements and enhanced transactional safeguards for ABS shelf
offerings should help to address the moral hazard problem that contributed to the poor
performance of asset-backed securities during the financial crisis. 404 For registered
offerings of asset-backed securities subject to the new requirements, the revisions to
Regulation AB should improve the amount of information available to investors about the
quality of securitized assets. The availability of detailed loan-level data in a machine
readable format will provide investors with information needed to perform their own
assessments of the associated risks and lessen the risk of overreliance on third-party
evaluations such as credit ratings.

403

Asset-Backed Securities Disclosure and Registration; Final Rule, 79 FR 57184 (Sept.
24, 2014).
404

See, Adam B. Ashcraft & Til Schuermann, Understanding the Securitization of
Subprime Mortgage Credit (Staff Report, Fed. Reserve Bank of N.Y., Working Paper No.
318, 2008) (identifying at least seven different frictions in the residential mortgage
securitization chain that can cause agency and adverse selection problems in a
securitization transaction and explaining that given that there are many different parties in
a securitization, each with differing economic interests and incentives, the overarching
friction that creates all other problems at every step in the securitization process is
asymmetric information).

441

The new requirements for shelf offerings of asset-backed securities include
additional safeguards to improve the offering process, encourage greater oversight of the
structuring and disclosure of the transaction and provide additional recourse for resolving
potential problems by providing stronger mechanisms to enforce compliance with the
sponsors’ representations and warranties. 405 Combined, these rules should improve
investors’ willingness to invest in asset-backed securities and to help the recovery in the
asset-backed securities market with attendant positive effects on informational and
allocative efficiency, competition, and the level of capital formation.
The amendments to Regulation AB should significantly reduce the moral hazard
problem in the publicly offered asset-backed securities market and offer an important
complement to, but not a substitute for, the risk retention requirement. In particular, there
are several ways in which the risk retention requirement will further address the moral
hazard problem. As an initial matter, the scope of the risk retention requirement is
significantly broader than the asset-level disclosure requirements of the revised
Regulation AB, which does not apply across all asset classes or to unregistered offerings
(e.g., private sales of securities to qualified institutional buyers pursuant to Rule 144A

405

For example, the rules require a minimum three-business day waiting period before
the first sale of securities in the offering to provide investors with time to conduct
analysis of the offering. Additionally, as a shelf eligibility requirement, the chief
executive officer of the depositor must provide a certification at the time of each
takedown about the disclosure contained in the prospectus and the structure of the
securitization. As another shelf eligibility requirement, the underlying transaction
agreements must include provisions that require a review of pool assets upon the
occurrence of a two-prong trigger based first upon the occurrence of a specified
percentage of delinquencies in the pool and, if the delinquency trigger is met, upon the
direction of investors by vote.

442

under the Securities Act). 406 Hence, the impact of the asset-level disclosure requirements
under the revised Regulation AB may be limited by the extent to which market practices
for asset classes not covered by the revised Regulation AB and privately offered assetbacked securities do not incorporate or develop similar disclosure standards and sponsors
pursue private offerings instead of registered offerings. 407
There is reason to believe, however, that the revised Regulation AB could have
positive spillover effects into the private markets. With the adoption of standardized
loan-level disclosures and increased investor confidence in the registered market, similar
practices may develop in the private offering market, particularly to the extent that
sponsors and investors participate in both markets. At present, 37 percent of the dollar
volume of ABS transactions had sponsors who issued both registered and unregistered
offerings. 408 With respect to asset classes and originators for which these sponsors have
conducted registered offerings, the sponsors would have relatively low incremental costs
to apply existing infrastructure developed to comply with the new disclosure
requirements of Regulation AB in any private market offerings that they may conduct for
those asset classes and those originators.

406

Using the Asset-Backed Alert and Commercial Mortgage Alert databases, DERA
staff calculated that, during the 2009-2013 period, only 12.8 percent of non-U.S. agency
asset-backed securities deals (excluding ABCP and TOB), or 24.5 percent by dollar
volume, will be subject to asset-level disclosure requirements under revised Regulation
AB.

407

The Commission continues to consider whether asset-level disclosure would be useful
to investors across other asset classes as well as in private offerings. See revised
Regulation AB Adopting Release, 79 FR at 57191 and 57197.

408

AB Alert.

443

These benefits will be further supplemented with the overlay of the risk retention
requirements. Risk retention forces sponsors to internalize the costs of inappropriate
behaviors such as the obfuscation of the intrinsic risks of the securitization and failure to
do appropriate diligence. This internalization will occur contemporaneously with the
losses incurred by investors. In contrast, even with the additional disclosures and
transactional safeguards required under the revised Regulation AB, sponsors may
misrepresent the characteristics of the securitized assets and, in such cases, investor
recourse to the sponsor can only occur after the fact of the losses, such as through legal
remedy. Analysis from recent studies and details of Commission enforcement cases
show that RMBS sponsors misrepresented the quality of the securitized asset pool in
RMBS prospectuses leading up to the financial crisis. 409 The additional disclosure
requirements and transactional safeguards mandated by Regulation AB may not cause
sponsors of registered securitizations to internalize the costs of such practices as fully as
if the sponsor retained a portion of the credit risk. Thus, the risk retention requirements
for certain registered offerings should be beneficial even with the existence of Regulation
AB’s additional disclosure and transactional requirements because those disclosure

409

For example, in 2013, the Commission charged Bank of America entities for failing
to disclose key risks and misrepresenting facts about the mortgages underlying an RMBS
securitization that the firms underwrote, sponsored, and issued in 2008 (see Commission
press release of August 6, 2013, available at
http://www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370539751924). Similarly,
in 2014, the Commission charged Morgan Stanley entities, with misleading investors and
misrepresenting the current or historical delinquency status of mortgage loans underlying
two subprime RMBS securitizations that the firms underwrote, sponsored, and issued in
2007 (see Commission press release of July 24, 2014, available at
http://www.sec.gov/News/PressRelease/Detail/PressRelease/1370542355594). See also
footnote 400 for academic papers that find evidence of mortgage misreporting in nonagency MBS by both originators and underwriters.

444

requirements do not create the same alignment of interests of sponsors and investors that
would serve to reduce the prevalence of moral hazard and improve underwriting in the
publicly offered securitization market.
The disclosure practices that evolve in connection with revised Regulation AB
will work together with the credit risk retention requirement to address the moral hazard
problem in the publicly offered asset-backed securities market, encourage better
underwriting, and better inform investors on the nature of the retained risk. In particular,
revised Regulation AB may influence a sponsor’s choice between the vertical and
(potentially more costly) horizontal forms of risk retention. The revisions to Regulation
AB require public disclosure of asset-level information for registered offerings, and
because investors in these transactions will be able to better assess the characteristics of
the securitized assets, they may be willing to invest in more risky tranches of
securitizations, which could increase the ability of the sponsor to rely on a larger vertical
interest. As a result, more sponsors might choose to use the less costly vertical risk
retention option (or, if they use a combination of the horizontal and vertical forms of risk
retention, they might choose to reduce the relative weight of the horizontal form and
increase the relative weight of the vertical form), and if so, the implementation of the
revisions to Regulation AB could reduce the costs of risk retention to sponsors of
registered offerings.
After the implementation of both revised Regulation AB and the risk retention
rules, asset-backed securities offerings will be subject to varying levels of compliance
with asset-level requirements and the risk retention rules, which may result in differing
levels of incentive alignment and transparency. Offerings would fall into different

445

groups 410 and these groups may have different levels of exposure to underwriting quality,
moral hazard and asymmetric information problems and may attract different types of
investors because different risk tolerances among investors will result in preferences for
different types of asset classes and offering methods. Some of these offering groups
would be subject to higher underwriting standards and lower risk of default, but could be
relatively more exposed to the moral hazard problem (e.g., an incentive to misrepresent
the characteristics of the securitized assets) due to the lack of risk retention and assetlevel disclosures. Other offering groups may contain lower quality assets, but could be
less exposed to the moral hazard problem because of the risk retention requirement. Such
distinction could create different demand for each group commensurate with the level of
perceived asset underwriting quality and moral hazard, with corresponding implications
for risk premium and cost of capital.
3. Economic Baseline
The baseline the Commission uses to analyze the economic effects of the risk
retention requirements mandated by Section 15G is the current set of rules, regulations,

410

The groups are: (1) those where the sponsor is subject to risk retention and for which
asset-level disclosure is required (e.g., registered RMBS of loans that are not qualified
residential mortgages (QRM), CMBS of loans that are not qualifying commercial real
estate (QCRE) loans, and registered asset-backed securities backed by non-qualifying
automobile loans); (2) those for which only asset-level disclosure is required (e.g.,
registered RMBS of QRM loans, registered CMBS of QCRE loans, and registered assetbacked securities backed by qualifying automobile loans); (3) those for which only risk
retention is required (e.g., unregistered RMBS of non-QRM loans, unregistered CMBS of
non-QCRE loans, unregistered asset-backed securities backed by non-qualifying
automobile loans, and all unregistered asset-backed securities backed by any other assets
not otherwise exempt from risk retention); and (4) those for which neither asset-level
disclosure nor risk retention is required (e.g., unregistered non-U.S. agency RMBS
backed by QRM loans and U.S. agency RMBS).

446

and market practices that may affect the amount of credit exposure retained by sponsors.
To the extent not already encompassed by current market practices, the risk retention
requirements being adopted are expected to have a significant impact on market practices
of, and risks faced by, asset-backed securities market participants, including loan
originators, sponsors and investors in asset-backed securities, and consumers and
businesses that seek access to credit using financial products that are securitized. The
costs and benefits of the risk retention requirements depend largely on the current market
practices specific to each securitization asset class – including current risk retention
practices – and corresponding asset characteristics. The magnitude of the potential
effects of the risk retention requirements depend on the overall size of the securitization
market and the extent to which the requirements affect borrower access to credit and the
cost of capital for lenders. The discussion below describes the Commission’s
understanding of the securitization markets that are affected by the final rule. 411
a. Size of Securitization Markets
The asset-backed securities market is important for the U.S. economy and
comprises a large fraction of the U.S. debt market. During the five-year period from
2009 to 2013, 31.5 percent of the $33.2 trillion in public and private debt issued in the
United States was in the form of mortgage-backed securities (MBS) or other assetbacked securities, and 3.0 percent was in the form of non-U.S. agency backed (private
label) MBS or asset-backed securities. For comparison, 32.9 percent of all debt issued

411

The impact of the recently adopted but not yet effective revisions to Regulation AB is
discussed in Section 2.c of this Economic Analysis.

447

was U.S. Treasury debt, and 5.6 percent was municipal debt at the end of 2013. 412 Figure
1 shows the percentage breakdown of total non-agency issuances from 2009 to 2013 for
various asset classes excluding short term asset-backed securities, such as asset-backed
commercial paper (ABCP) or Tender Option Bonds (TOBs) and excluding collateralized
loan and debt obligations (CLOs and CDOs). 413 Consumer credit categories, including
asset-backed securities backed by automobile loans and leases and credit card
receivables, comprise 37 percent and 14 percent of the total annual issuance volume,
respectively. Non-agency RMBS and CMBS comprise 4 percent and 18 percent of the
market, respectively, while asset-backed securities backed by student loans account for 9
percent of the market. Below the Commission analyzes the variation in issuance among
these five largest asset classes. For several categories, the Commission outlines detailed
information about issuance volume and the number of active sponsors (Tables 2 and 3).

412

Source: SIFMA Statistics available at http://www.sifma.org/research/statistics.aspx,
accessed on July 11, 2014.
413

To estimate the size and composition of the private-label securitization market, the
Commission uses data from the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association
(SIFMA) and Asset-Backed Alert. It is not clear how corporate debt repackagings are
classified in these databases. In the following analysis, the Commission excludes all
securities guaranteed by U.S. government agencies. ABCP is a short-term financing
instrument and is frequently rolled over; thus, its issuance volume is not directly
comparable to the issuance volume of other asset classes of asset-backed securities.

448

FIGURE 1

Prior to the financial crisis of 2008, the number of non-agency RMBS issuances
was substantial. For example, new issuances totaled $760.3 billion in 2005 and peaked at
$801.7 billion in 2006. Non-agency RMBS issuances fell dramatically in 2008, to $34.5
billion, as did the total number of sponsors, from a high of 80 in 2006 to 27 in 2008. In
2013, there was only $25.2 billion in new non-agency RMBS issuances by 22 separate
sponsors.
Table 2 - Annual Issuance Volume and Number of Sponsors by Offering Type for
Asset-Backed Securities Backed by Consumer Loans
Credit Card ABS
Automobile ABS
Panel A - Annual Issuance Volume by Offering Type ($ bn)
Year SEC 144A Private Total SEC 144A Private Total
2005
61.2
1.8
0.0 62.9 85.1 8.7
0.0 93.9
2006
60.0 12.5
0.0 72.5 68.0 12.2
0.0 80.2
2007
88.1
6.4
0.0 94.5 55.8 6.8
0.0 62.6
2008
56.7
5.0
0.0 61.6 31.9 5.7
0.0 37.6
2009
34.1 12.5
0.0 46.6 33.9 15.4
0.0 49.2
2010
5.3
2.1
0.0 7.5 37.9 15.3
0.0 53.2
2011
10.0
4.8
1.5 16.3 41.9 14.4
0.0 56.3
2012
28.7 10.5
0.0 39.2 65.6 13.9
0.0 79.5

449

Student Loan ABS
SEC
54.1
54.9
41.7
25.8
8.3
2.8
2.5
6.6

144A Private Total
8.1
0.4 62.6
10.9
0.5 66.2
16.0
0.6 58.3
2.4
0.0 28.2
12.5
0.0 20.8
16.2
1.2 20.2
13.9
1.1 17.5
23.2
0.0 29.9

2013

32.0

3.1

0.0 35.1 62.5 12.8

0.0

75.2

6.5 14.9

0.0

21.4

Panel B - Annual Number of Sponsors by Offering Type
Year SEC 144A Private Total SEC 144A Private Total SEC 144A Private Total
2005
13
5
0
17 30
9
0
38 13
7
1
19
2006
10
11
0
18 23
12
0
30
8
17
1
24
2007
12
8
0
16 23
9
0
28
7
17
1
22
2008
9
3
0
11 16
8
0
21
3
6
0
8
2009
9
6
0
11 13
13
0
22
3
6
0
6
2010
5
5
0
9 19
15
0
27
2
18
1
19
2011
5
7
1
12 14
16
0
25
1
19
1
20
2012
7
9
0
13 18
24
0
36
1
26
0
26
2013
9
5
0
14 17
19
0
32
1
22
0
22
Notes: The numbers in the table were calculated by staff from the Commission’s Division of
Economic and Risk Analysis (DERA) using the Asset-Backed Alert database. The deals are
categorized by offering year, underlying asset type, and offering type (SEC registered offerings,
Rule 144A offerings, or traditional private placements). Automobile asset-backed securities
include asset-backed securities backed by automobile loans and leases, both prime and subprime,
motorcycle loans, and truck loans. Panel A shows the total issuance amount in billions of dollars.
Panel B shows the number of unique sponsors (based on sponsor name) of ABS in each category
(the number in the column “Total” may not be the sum of the numbers in the columns “SEC”,
“144A” and “Private” because some sponsors may sponsor deals in several categories). Only
asset-backed securities classified by Asset-Backed Alert as deals sold in the U.S. and sponsors of
such deals are counted.

Table 3 - Annual Issuance Volume and Number of Sponsors by Offering Type for
Real Estate-Backed ABS
Non-agency RMBS
CMBS
Panel A - Annual Issuance Volume by Offering Type ($ bn)
Year SEC 144A Private Total SEC 144A Private
2005 738.5 21.7
0.0 760.3 136.23 34.44
0.00
2006 727.1 74.6
0.0 801.7 161.76 41.05
0.00
2007 634.8 80.4
0.0 715.3 190.57 40.58
0.00
2008
12.2 22.3
0.0 34.5
10.71 1.49
0.00
2009
0.0 48.1
0.0 48.1
0.00 6.86
0.00
2010
0.2 67.2
12.8 80.3
0.00 19.54
0.00
2011
0.7 40.8
9.7 51.3
8.45 26.05
0.00
2012
1.9 27.0
0.0 29.0
32.56 18.68
0.00
2013
4.0 21.1
0.0 25.2
53.07 33.27
0.00

Total
170.68
202.81
231.15
12.20
6.86
19.54
34.50
51.24
86.35

Panel B - Annual Number of Sponsors by Offering Type
Year SEC 144A Private Total SEC 144A Private Total
2005
54
21
0
60
41
42
0
61
2006
55
43
0
80
39
40
0
57

450

2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013

53
12
0
1
1
1
1

45
22
17
26
16
20
22

0
0
0
1
2
0
0

78
27
17
28
18
21
22

43
19
0
0
16
26
32

29
2
13
25
31
33
57

0
0
0
0
0
0
0

54
21
13
25
31
56
83

Notes: The numbers in the table were calculated by DERA staff using the Asset-Backed Alert and
Commercial Mortgage Alert databases. The deals are categorized by offering year, underlying
asset type, and offering type (SEC registered offerings, Rule 144A offerings, or traditional private
placement). Non-agency RMBS include residential, Alt-A, and subprime RMBS. Panel A shows
the total issuance amount in billions of dollars. Panel B shows the number of unique sponsors
(based on sponsor name) of asset-backed securities in each category (the number in the column
“Total” may not be the sum of the numbers in the columns “SEC”, “144A” and “Private” because
some sponsors may sponsor deals in several categories). Only asset-backed securities deals
classified by Asset-Backed Alert as sold in the U.S. and sponsors of such deals are counted.

Similar to the market for non-agency RMBS, the market for CMBS also
experienced a decline following the financial crisis. There were $231.15 billion in new
issuances at the market’s peak in 2007. New issuances fell to $12.20 billion in 2008 and
to $6.86 billion in 2009. In 2013, there were $86.35 billion in new CMBS issuances.
While the markets for asset-backed securities backed by credit card receivables,
automobile loans and leases, and student loans experienced a similar decline in issuances
following the financial crisis, the issuance trends in Table 2 indicate that they have
rebounded substantially more than the non-agency RMBS and CMBS markets. Assetbacked securities collateralized by automobile loans and leases currently have the largest
issuance volume and the largest number of active sponsors of asset-backed securities
among all asset classes. There were $75.2 billion in new asset-backed securities
issuances collateralized by automobile loans and leases in 2013 from 32 sponsors. This
amount of new issuances is approximately twice the amount of new issuances in 2008
($37.6 billion) in this asset class and is similar to the amount of new issuances in this
asset class from 2004 to 2007.
451

Although the amount of new issuances of asset-backed securities backed by credit
card receivables has not fully rebounded from pre-crisis levels, it is currently
substantially larger than in recent years. There were $35.6 billion in new issuances of
asset-backed securities backed by credit card receivables in 2013, a five-fold increase
over the amount of new issuances in 2010 ($7.5 billion). The number of sponsors of such
transactions has remained steady over time, totaling 14 in 2013. The amount of new
issuances of asset-backed securities backed by student loans has also not fully rebounded
from pre-crisis levels. 414 There were $21.3 billion in new issuances of asset-backed
securities backed by student loans in 2013, compared to a range from $45.9 billion to
$58.3 billion between 2004 and 2007. The number of sponsors of such transactions has
returned to pre-crisis levels, totaling 22 in 2013.
In addition to these asset classes, sponsors will have to retain risk for all issuances
of asset-backed securities, including equipment loans and leases, corporate debt
repackagings, TOBs, ABCP, CDOs and CLOs.
Information describing the amount of issuances and the number of sponsors in the
ABCP markets is not readily available. Information on the total amount of issuances
outstanding indicates that the ABCP market has decreased since the end of 2006, when
the total amount outstanding was $1,081.4 billion, or 55 percent of the entire commercial

414

The elimination of the Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFELP), a federally
guaranteed student loan program, in March 2010 may be a significant contributor to the
decline in the issuance of asset-backed securities backed by student loans as no
subsequent loans were permitted to be made under the program after June 2010.

452

paper market. 415 As of the end of 2013, there were $254.7 billion of ABCP outstanding,
accounting for less than 25 percent of the commercial paper market.

Table 4 - Commercial Paper (CP) Outstanding ($bn)
Year

ABCP

All CP
Outstanding
2004
688.9
1,401.5
2005
860.3
1,637.5
2006
1,081.4
1,974.7
2007
774.5
1,785.9
2008
734.0
1,681.5
2009
487.0
1,170.0
2010
348.1
971.5
2011
328.8
959.3
2012
319.0
1,065.6
2013
254.7
1,086.2
Notes: Source - Federal Reserve

ABCP
share
49.2%
52.5%
54.8%
43.4%
43.7%
41.6%
35.8%
34.3%
29.9%
23.4%

Like other asset-backed securities markets, the CLO market went through the
same cycle of high growth right before the crisis in 2005–2007 followed by steep decline
in 2008–2010. However, by 2013 the CLO market had almost recovered to its pre-crisis
level (see Table 5), in terms of the number of CLO deals per year, the aggregate dollar
volume of issuance, and the number of active sponsors (CLO managers). It should also be
noted that, in most of the years in the table below, the median sponsor had only one CLO
deal sponsored per year.
Table 5 - Annual Issuance Volume and Number of Sponsors for Arbitrage CLOs 416
Total Volume, Unique CLO
Year
Deals
$ bn
Managers
2004
89
30.6
60
2005
124
56.05
79

415

Based on information from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis FRED Economic
Data database.

416

The agencies are adopting a risk retention option for CLOs that meet certain criteria,
described herein as “open-market CLOs.” Arbitrage CLOs have many of the features of
open-market CLOs, but as these requirements were not part of the market prior to this
rulemaking, there is no reasonable means of determining which CLOs would have
qualified as an open-market CLO.

453

2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013

215
187
44
8
7
30
123
179

106.74
95.56
22.05
2.84
2.39
12.86
55.99
85.83

119
101
26
6
6
26
72
97

Notes: The numbers in the table were calculated by DERA staff using the Asset-Backed Alert
database. Only arbitrage CLOs backed by corporate loans and sold in the U.S. and sponsors of
such deals are counted. The total issuance amount is in billions of dollars.

b. Current Risk Retention Market Practices
As noted earlier, the potential economic effects of the final risk retention
requirements will depend on current market practices. Currently, risk retention is not
legally mandated in any sector of the U.S. asset-backed securities market (with the
exception of the FDIC safe harbor option discussed below where risk retention is one of
the compliance options), although some sponsors of different asset-backed securities
classes do remain exposed to credit risk, at least at initial issuance, in response to
investors’ or rating agencies’ demand. The new risk retention requirements will impose a
cost on sponsors that will depend on the amount and form of risk currently retained by a
sponsor of asset-backed securities and the length of time sponsors remain exposed to
such risk. Market practices are different for different sectors (to the extent that they are
applied at all) and there is no uniform reporting of the types or amounts of risk exposure.
Because of the lack of aggregated quantitative information relating to the current risk
exposure practices of sponsors, the Commission does not have full information on the
extent to which sponsors remain exposed to risk. Below the Commission describes
current risk exposure practices for various asset classes based upon its understanding of
454

these markets and public comment received to date. 417 Almost all asset classes include
structural features in which sponsors remain exposed to some amount of credit risk,
including RMBS, CMBS, automobile loans and leases, credit card receivables,
equipment loans and leases and automobile floorplan loans. We note, however, that even
if some sponsors voluntarily retain risk in the form of a combination of several tranches,
including residual interest that adds up to 5 percent of the principal amount of the deal,
the sponsors typically do not contractually commit in the transaction documents to
holding these interests after the initial sale (however, a rating agency might downgrade
the entire securitization if the residual is sold). Notable exceptions include: TOBs, CLOs
and CMBS where depending on the specific structure and the funding needs of the
sponsor, either the sponsor or a third party might purchase a residual or equity interest;
and structures in which parties involved in the securitization, other than the sponsors,
retain risk, such as ABCP conduits, in which the seller of receivables holds a pro rata or
residual interest in the receivables sold to the ABCP conduit.
In 2010, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) adopted an amended
rule regarding the treatment by the FDIC, as receiver or conservator of an insured
depository institution, of financial assets transferred by the institution in connection with

417

See also the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System’s “Report to the
Congress on Risk Retention” (October 2010), pp. 41-48, where other mechanisms
intended to align incentives and mitigate risk are described, including alternatives such as
overcollateralization, subordination, guarantees, representations and warranties, and
conditional cash flows as well as the retention of credit risk. The report also contains a
description of the most common incentive alignment and credit enhancement
mechanisms used in the various securitization asset classes. The report does not establish
the extent to which these alternatives might be substitutes for the retention of credit risk.

455

a securitization. 418 If the FDIC does not deem a transfer of assets to a securitization
vehicle a true sale, the FDIC could repudiate transaction agreements for the
securitization, recover financial assets that had been transferred, and thereby compromise
the “legal isolation,” as determined by relevant accounting standards, of the assets upon
which the securitization was predicated. 419 The FDIC’s rule imposes several new
conditions to qualify for a safe harbor from such repudiation, with risk retention being
one of the new conditions. Thus, in the absence of other forms of “true sale” protection,
banking institutions that would like to avoid the potential future FDIC repudiation of a
securitization could retain credit risk. As discussed below in Section 3.b.iii, some banks
sponsoring asset-backed securities comply with the FDIC safe harbor rule by retaining
risk in the form of a representative sample of the securitized assets—one of the forms of
risk retention permitted under the FDIC’s rule.
Finally, sponsors that intend to market their asset-backed securities in both the
United States and the European Union and that issue securities after January 1, 2014, may
need to retain 5 percent credit risk to comply with E.U. risk retention rules that, instead of
imposing a direct risk retention obligation on sponsors, regulate the types of securities
that certain investors can buy. 420 The Commission does not have data on the fraction or

418

See 12 CFR 360.6. Upon their effective date, the final rule will replace the FDIC
regulations and shall exclusively govern the requirement to retain credit risk for insured
depository institutions.
419

The FDIC would have to pay damages to the securitization vehicle for any
repossessed assets; however, those damages might be less than the full amount of
principal and interest due on outstanding securities backed by such assets.

420

Article 122a of the Capital Requirements Directive mandates that European
Economic Area-regulated credit institutions and investment firms and their affiliates may
456

types of asset-backed securities currently sold in the U.S. that retain credit risk to comply
with these rules or asset-backed securities sold by U.S. sponsors to investors covered by
E.U. risk retention rules.
i.

Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities

The Commission understands that sponsors of non-agency RMBS historically did
not generally retain a portion of credit risk in the form and at a level consistent with the
rule being adopted. One study421 finds that, on average, RMBS deals had a 1.2 percent
residual interest by face value that was proportional to the perceived level of information
asymmetry between the sponsor and ABS investors, although the study could not
determine whether sponsors retained the residual interest or, if retained, for how long it
was held after issuance. Thus, even if sponsors of RMBS deals were holding the residual
interest and were not selling it to third parties, they were not, on average, retaining 5
percent of the credit risk by face value. 422 Consequently, as discussed below, except in

only invest in securitization transactions if the original lender, originator or sponsor of the
securitization retains 5 percent of the net economic interest of the transaction. Related EU
Alternative Investment Fund Manager’s Directive imposes similar risk retention
requirements on securitizations that most private equity, real estate investment services
and hedge funds are allowed to invest in.
421

Taylor Begley and Amiyatosh Purnanandam, Design of Financial Securities:
Empirical Evidence from Private-label RMBS Deals (2014), University of Michigan
working paper. They find that the size of the residual interest is proportional to the
fraction of no document loans – their proxy for increased information asymmetry
between sponsors and investors.
422

We also note that one of the largest sponsors of registered RMBS has stated it
currently retains some interest in the RMBS transactions that it sponsors. See Sequoia
Mortgage Trust 2013-1, Final Prospectus filed pursuant to Rule 424(b)(5), File No. 333179292-06 filed January 16, 2013;
http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1176320/000114420413002646/v332142_424b5
.htm.

457

the case where exemptions are applicable (e.g., the QRM exemption), the final risk
retention requirements likely will impose new constraints on RMBS sponsors.
ii.

Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities

The current risk retention practice in the CMBS market is to retain at issuance the
“first loss piece” (riskiest tranche). This tranche is typically sold to a specialized
category of CMBS investor, known as a “B-piece buyer.” 423 The B-piece investors in
CMBS securitizations often hold dual roles as bond investors, if the assets remain current
on their obligations, and as holders of controlling interests to appoint special servicers, if
the loans default and go into special servicing. As holders of the controlling interest, they
will typically appoint an affiliate as the special servicer. The B-piece CMBS investors
are typically commercial real estate specialists who use their knowledge about the
securitized assets in the pools to conduct extensive due diligence on new deals. 424 The Bpiece market has very few participants. 425 The B-pieces are often “buy-and-hold”
investments, and, based on the Commission’s knowledge of the asset-backed securities
market, the secondary market for B-pieces is relatively illiquid at this time. According to
one comment letter, a typical B-piece makes up 2.6 percent of economic and 7 percent of

423

However, not every CMBS deal has a B-piece buyer. According to Commercial
Mortgage Alert, 46 percent of CMBS deals in 2009-2013 had a B-piece buyer.

424

CMBS have much smaller number of underlying loans in a pool (based on data from
Commercial Mortgage Alert, in 2009-2013, CMBS, on average, had about 100
commercial properties in a pool, whereas RMBS had about 3,000 assets in a pool and
automobile loan/lease ABS typically had 75,000 assets) and these loans are often not
standardized. Thus, direct management of individual underperforming loans is often
necessary and is much more viable for CMBS than for other asset classes.

425

Based on Commercial Mortgage Alert data, in 2009-2013, there were 38 different Bpiece buyers with 9 of them participating in 70 percent of CMBS deals.

458

the notional balance of a CMBS. Thus, the Commission believes the prevailing market
practice for risk retention in the CMBS sector is to hold less than the final rule’s risk
retention option for CMBS sponsors.
iii.

Master Trusts (Revolving Pool Securitizations)

Master trusts generally issue multiple series of asset-backed securities over time,
backed by a common pool of securitized assets. The transaction agreements require the
sponsor to maintain the principal balance of the securitized assets at an amount that is at
all times sufficient to back the aggregate amount of asset-backed securities outstanding to
investors with a specified amount of collateral above that amount. The principal amount
of outstanding investor ABS interests changes over time as new series are issued or
existing series are paid off. Moreover, as each series is issued, it begins with a revolving
period (typically for some number of years), during which the investors receive only
interest, and cash from borrower principal repayments on the pool assets are used to buy
additional assets for the pool from the sponsor. This provides the sponsor with ongoing
funding for its operations, and maintains the level of pool assets over time. Then, at a
date specified under the terms of the series, the revolving phase for the series comes to an
end, and cash from borrower principal repayments on pool assets is used to repay
investors and retire that series of investor ABS interests.
Sponsors of revolving master trusts often maintain risk exposures through the use
of a seller’s interest which is intended to be equivalent to the sponsor’s interest in the
receivables underlying the asset-backed securities. In current market practices, the
amount and form of risk exposure generally depends on the asset class in the master trust;
there is typically more risk exposure for assets with higher rates of default or that are

459

more difficult to assess. For example, credit card master trusts sponsors retain economic
exposure through excess spread and fees, while dealer floorplan asset-backed securities
have significant residual exposure. The Commission requested additional information
about current practices and data from market participants, but none was provided. As a
result, the Commission does not have reasonably accessible data about revolving master
trusts that would permit it to estimate current market practice about the amount of risk
exposure held by sponsors.
As discussed above, banks sponsoring asset-backed securities that intend to
comply with the FDIC safe harbor rule could retain 5 percent of credit risk of the
securitized pool. Some banks that use trust structures to sponsor asset-backed securities
backed by automobile loans and leases use one of the allowed options under the FDIC
rule, the representative sample option, to comply with the safe harbor rule requirements.
Under this option, the sponsor randomly selects a separate pool of receivables that
represents the characteristics of the securitized pool of assets and holds it on their balance
sheet. 426
iv.

Other Asset-Backed Securities

The current market practices for other categories of asset-backed securities that
serve to align the interests of the sponsor and investors vary across asset classes. The
Commission understands that sponsors of automobile loans typically maintain exposure

426

See, for example, Bank of America Auto Trust 2012-1
(http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1488082/000119312512149853/d309744d424b
3.htm) or Ally Auto Receivables Trust 2012-3
(http://www.sec.gov/Archives/edgar/data/1477336/000119312512243201/d357186d424b
5.htm).

460

to the quality of their underwriting by retaining a significant residual interest in their
securitization transactions. However, there is insufficient data available to the
Commission to estimate the fair value of these retained residual interests. Also, as
discussed above, some banking institutions that are affiliated with a sponsor of assetbacked securities collateralized by automobile loans and leases retain a 5 percent
representative sample to comply with the FDIC safe harbor rule. As noted above, the
final rule does not include a representative sample option. The Commission also
understands that many sponsors of asset-backed securities backed by student loans did
not retain credit risk as many were federally guaranteed. Sallie Mae, the largest sponsor
of student loan asset-backed securities, typically retains through an affiliate a residual
interest in the form of overcollateralization in the securitizations that it sponsors.
v.

Asset-Backed Commercial Paper

ABCP is a type of asset-backed security that is typically issued to investors by a
special purpose vehicle (commonly referred to as a “conduit”) sponsored by a financial
institution. The commercial paper issued by the conduit is collateralized by a pool of
asset-backed securities, which may change over the life of the entity. ABCP conduits
generally purchase longer-term assets financed by the issuance of shorter-term liabilities,
and the liabilities are ‘‘rolled,’’ or refinanced, at regular intervals. 427
In a typical ABCP conduit transaction, the sponsor’s customer (an “originatorseller”) sells loans or receivables to an intermediate, bankruptcy remote special purpose
vehicle (SPV). The credit risk of the receivables transferred to the intermediate SPV then

427

See Original Proposal at §__.9.

461

typically is separated into two classes – a senior ABS interest that is acquired by the
ABCP conduit and a residual interest that absorbs first losses on the receivables and that
is retained by the originator-seller. The residual interest retained by the originator-seller
typically is sized with the intention that it be sufficiently large to absorb all losses on the
underlying receivables.
In this structure, the ABCP conduit issues short-term ABCP that is collateralized
by the senior ABS interests purchased from one or more intermediate SPVs, which are, in
turn, supported by the subordination provided by the residual ABS interests retained by
the originator-sellers (i.e., the sponsors of underlying ABS interests would be subject to
risk retention requirements). The sponsor of this type of ABCP conduit, which is usually
a bank or other regulated financial institution or their affiliate, also typically provides (or
arranges for another regulated financial institution or group of financial institution to
provide) 100 percent liquidity coverage on the ABCP issued by the conduit. This
liquidity coverage typically requires the support provider to provide funding to, or
purchase assets or ABCP from, the ABCP conduit in the event that the conduit lacks the
funds necessary to repay maturing ABCP issued by the conduit.
Commenting on the original proposal, ABCP conduit sponsors noted that there
are structural features in ABCP securitizations that align the interests of the ABCP
conduit sponsor and the ABCP investors. For instance, commenters stated that ABCP
conduits usually have some mix of credit support and liquidity support equal to 100
percent of the ABCP outstanding. In the view of commenters, this liquidity and credit

462

support exposes the ABCP conduit sponsor to the quality of the assets in an amount that
far exceeds 5 percent of the fair value of the outstanding ABCP. 428
vi.

Collateralized Loan Obligations

A collateralized loan obligation (CLO) is an asset-backed security that is typically
collateralized by portions of tranches of senior, secured commercial loans or similar
obligations of non-investment grade borrowers. 429 CLOs are organized and initiated by a
CLO manager, usually when the CLO manager partners with a structuring bank that
assists in financing asset purchases that occur before the formation of the CLO. 430 The
CLO manager actively manages the asset portfolio and earns management fees and
performance fees for investment management services provided to the CLO.
The Commission understands that CLO managers often retain a small portion –
significantly less than 5 percent – of the residual interest, although the party retaining the
risk may vary depending on the CLO. Some types of CLO managers are more likely to
hold a significant residual interest in their CLO, while others are more likely to secure a
third-party equity investor to purchase the residual interest. According to one
commenter, a common CLO market practice is for the CLO manager to hold 5 percent of
the residual interest, which is typically around 8 percent of the value of the CLO at

428

See footnote 395 for the general agencies position on acceptability of unfunded
arrangements as forms of risk retention.
429

The term “CLO” is also used to refer to the special purpose vehicle that issues the
asset-backed securities and the overall securitization structure.

430

Report to the Congress on Risk Retention, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, at 22 (Oct. 2010), available at
http://federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/rptcongress/securitization/riskretention.pdf.

463

issuance. 431 This level of retention equates to approximately 0.4 percent of the value of
the CLO.
The Commission understands that many CLO structures use overcollateralization
– the amount by which the face value of the underlying loan portfolio 432 exceeds the face
value of the outstanding asset-backed securities – which many CLO managers consider as
a form of risk retention because the value of the overcollateralization is ascribed to the
residual interest. For example, the current senior overcollateralization for older vintage
CLO 1.0 deals (CLO structure used before the crisis) is 132 percent, while for CLO 2.0
deals (the structure used for newer CLO) it is 135 percent. 433 This means that a CLO 1.0
deal has $132 supporting every $100 of the most senior tranche outstanding. The amount
of overcollateralization for the entire CLO structure would be much lower because it
would also include mezzanine and subordinate bonds in addition to the residual interest.
The agencies do not consider overcollateralization by face value to be an acceptable form
of risk retention because the face values of both the securitized assets and of the ABS
interests can materially differ from their relative value and/or cost to the sponsor. 434
The Commission requested comments on whether any practices in the CLO
market reflected risk retention as envisioned by the proposed rule. Many commenters
431

In general, the size of the equity tranche increases in downturns and decreases in
booms. See Updating the CLO Primer, Bank of America/Merrill Lynch, July 2012.

432

The face value of the underlying loans may be adjusted in accordance with the CLOs
transaction documents to reflect concentration limits, delinquencies and/or discounted
purchase prices.

433

Asset-Backed Alert, July 11th, 2014.

434

As discussed below, the final rule does give sponsors credit for overcollateralization
to the extent the fair value of the horizontal form of risk retention takes into consideration
the fair value of the overcollateralization.

464

indicated that the proposed rule requirements would change current practices and
therefore substantially impact the CLO market. No commenter indicated the presence of,
or development towards, risk retention practices that would satisfy the requirements of
the proposed rule. Some commenters described the amount of risk retention currently
held and how managers of CLOs often retain a small portion of the residual interest and
asserted that sponsors retain risk through subordinated management and performance fees
that have performance components that depend on the performance of the overall pool or
junior tranches. 435
vii.

Tender Option Bonds

There are two typical tender option bonds (TOBs) structures that generally have
different amounts of risk retention. One type of TOB is a bank-sponsored TOB where a
single bank and its affiliates serve as the sponsor, residual holder and liquidity provider;
in this structure, the bank will typically hold nominal equity. Commenters noted that the
bank’s credit exposure is significantly greater than 5 percent because it is the provider of
100 percent liquidity support. The second type of TOB is one in which the bank that is
the liquidity provider does not hold the residual interest; in this case the TOB residual
holder will retain a more significant amount of risk. Other features of TOBs include a put
feature as part of the bond that allows investors to put the bond back to the sponsor and a

435

The agencies have not recognized subordinated management fees as an acceptable
form of risk retention in the final rule because, if the CLO underperforms, subordinate
management fees may not align the interests of the manager with those of investors. See
also footnote 395 for the general agencies position on acceptability of unfunded
arrangements as forms of risk retention.

465

100 percent liquidity support. The Commission requested data on current market levels of
risk retention for TOBs but received no data from commenters.
4. Analysis of Risk Retention Requirements
As discussed above, the agencies are adopting the rule requiring sponsors of
asset-backed securitizations to retain risk. Each of the asset classes subject to the final
rule has its own particular structure and, as a result, the implementation and impact of
risk retention will vary across asset classes, although certain attributes of risk retention
are common to all asset classes. In this section, the Commission discusses those aspects
of the final rule that apply across a broad range of asset classes: the requirement that
sponsors hold 5 percent of the credit risk of a securitization; the use of fair value of the
securitization to measure the amount of horizontal risk retained by the sponsor; and the
length of time that a sponsor will be required to hold its risk exposure.
a. Level and Measurement of Risk Retention
i.

Requirement to Hold Five Percent of Risk

Section 15G requires the agencies to jointly prescribe regulations that require a
sponsor to retain not less than 5 percent of the credit risk of any asset that the sponsor,
through the issuance of ABS, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party, unless an
exemption from the risk retention requirements for the securities or transaction is
otherwise available. The agencies reproposed a requirement to hold a minimum 5 percent
base risk retention for most ABS transactions that are within the scope of Section 15G,
with some exemptions.
Commenters did not comment specifically on the discussion of the 5 percent risk
retention requirement in the Commission’s Economic Analysis in the 2013 reproposal.

466

One commenter did suggest the minimum amount of risk retention be increased to 20
percent. As discussed in more detail below, increasing the minimum amount of risk
retention could increase the cost to sponsors and impede capital formation in the
economy by preventing the more efficient reinvestment of the sponsors’ capital, while
not necessarily providing significant incremental benefit to investors. In addition, several
commenters suggested risk retention requirements be determined by reference to asset
quality. 436
The agencies are adopting a 5 percent risk retention requirement as reproposed.
The Commission lacks the data – and commenters did not provide quantitative
information – to allow for analysis of an optimal level of retained risk, taking into
account the goal of aligning the incentives of the sponsors and the investors in assetbacked securities. As discussed above, barring any exemption, the required level of risk
retention is set by statute at no less than 5 percent. Below is a discussion of the trade-offs
between setting the level of required risk retention too high or too low.

436

The agencies do not believe that it is necessary or appropriate to attempt to vary the
amount of risk retention based on the quality of the assets or other, similar, factors.
Doing so would unnecessarily complicate compliance with the rule. Furthermore, as
discussed in the following section, the Commission believes that requiring risk retention
to be measured by fair value adequately incorporates the quality of the assets.
Specifically, it would calibrate the sponsor’s economic exposure to the asset pool
depending on quality of securitized assets. For example, the Commission notes that if the
securitized asset pool consists of low-quality assets, the value of the residual interest
would be relatively low and a sponsor would have to hold a larger equity tranche to meet
the five percent fair value credit risk exposure requirement. On the other hand, if the
securitized asset pool consists of high quality assets, the value of the residual interest
would be relatively higher and a sponsor would be able to satisfy the requirement by
holding smaller residual interest. Use of face value or overcollateralization to avoid the 5
percent risk retention requirement will not be possible using fair value methodologies
acceptable under GAAP as it would account for the expected losses associated with the
residual interest.

467

As a general matter, if the required level of risk retention is set too low, it may not
adequately align the incentives of investors and sponsors. While we recognize that
Congress prescribed a minimum level of risk retention, the Commission is also aware
that, as discussed in the Economic Baseline, sponsors of asset-backed securities in many
asset classes retained less than 5 percent credit exposure to securitizations in the past.
Moral hazard problems persisted at these lower levels. In contrast, asset classes with
relatively higher levels of risk retention (e.g., asset-backed securities backed by auto
loans and leases) performed relatively better throughout the financial crisis.
A level of risk retention that is set too high, however, could lead to inefficient
deployment of capital by unduly restricting a sponsor’s ability to structure new deals. If
sponsors are limited in their ability to secure the necessary financing to retain the
required amount of credit risk in their intended offerings, then this could adversely
impact the flow of capital from ABS investors to originators of the assets intended for
securitization. Hence, excessive required risk retention levels may lead to less capital
available to lenders, potentially increasing borrowing rates as borrowers compete for a
more limited supply of credit. In this scenario, the reduction in capital formation would
have a negative impact on competition due to the increased cost of securitizing nonqualified assets, disadvantaging their ability to be financed by ABS investors relative to
qualified assets and other sources of capital.
ii.

Measurement of Risk Retention Using Fair Value

The agencies are adopting a requirement for sponsors to measure risk retention of
an “eligible horizontal residual interest” (EHRI) using a fair value measurement
framework consistent with GAAP. As described in the 2013 reproposal, the agencies

468

believe that measuring risk retention with a fair value measurement framework will align
the measurement more closely with the credit risk of a securitization transaction than
alternative frameworks. The agencies are not requiring vertical interests to be measured
using a fair value measurement framework, as proposed, because they were persuaded by
commenters that such measurement is not necessary to ensure that the sponsor has
retained 5 percent of the credit risk of the ABS interests issued.
Commenters generally supported basing the measurement of the horizontal risk
retention requirement on fair value. Some commenters raised general concerns with the
proposed method by which sponsors would be required to measure their risk retention
because some sponsors do not currently use fair value calculations. Thus, requiring such
sponsors to measure their risk retention with fair value would create significant burden
and expense. Commenters also expressed several specific accounting concerns regarding
use of fair value to measure risk retention. Specifically, they expressed concern
regarding the timing of the pre-sale fair value disclosure requirement. Commenters noted
that the most objective and accurate way to calculate the fair value of the residual interest
is to base the valuation on observable market prices for the remaining securities;
however, because the reproposal required that sponsors calculate the fair value of the
residual interest in advance of the final pricing of the issued securities, the fair value of
the residual interest would have to be calculated using estimates of final pricing levels.
Commenters asserted that potential differences between the pre-sale fair value calculated
using estimated pricing levels and the post-closing fair value calculated using actual
pricing levels would confuse investors.

469

To provide investors with sufficient information to allow them to evaluate
whether the sponsor’s estimated calculation of fair value was reasonable, the proposed
rule would have required sponsors to disclose the key inputs and assumptions used in
measuring fair value and the sponsor’s technique(s) used to derive the key inputs and
assumptions. Many commenters expressed concerns about the proposed requirement,
indicating that the proposal would require sponsors to disclose information that is
proprietary, highly confidential and commercially sensitive, which could be used by third
parties to the competitive disadvantage of the sponsor. Other commenters suggested
significant modifications to the disclosure requirements. For example, several
commenters asserted that sponsors should only be required to make disclosures to the
Commission and banking agencies, rather than to investors. Significant concern was
raised regarding potential liability and litigation that commenters indicated may result
when fair value projections, assumptions and calculations disclosed to investors turn out
to be incorrect.
A few commenters asserted that for simple structures, sponsors should not be
required to make fair value determinations or related disclosures, nor should the cash
flow restriction (as described below) apply. Several commenters requested that the final
rule should not require sponsors to measure and disclose the fair value of eligible vertical
interests, so long as the underlying ABS interests have either a principal or notional
balance. The commenters noted that a 5 percent interest in the cash flow of each class
would always be equivalent to 5 percent of the fair value of each class. In this regard, the
commenters asserted that requiring fair value measurement and disclosures for the
vertical option would be unnecessary for ensuring compliance with the rule.

470

The final rule does not require sponsors holding risk retention in a vertical form to
measure and disclose the fair value of their vertical risk retention. With the vertical form
of risk retention, requiring sponsors to measure and disclose the fair value would impose
additional cost on the sponsor with little, if any, corresponding enhancement of investors’
ability to evaluate and understand the amount of credit risk exposure of the sponsor. This
is because 5 percent of the fair value of each tranche will be equal to 5 percent of face
value of each tranche. Therefore, if investors know that a sponsor is holding 5 percent of
each tranche, they will be able to assess the credit exposure of the sponsor regardless of
whether it is face value or fair value.
Using a fair value measurement framework acceptable under GAAP, as
applicable, to value the EHRI will provide a number of benefits. First, it allows investors
and sponsors to objectively measure and understand the amount of credit risk exposure of
the sponsor. The use of fair value is intended to prevent sponsors from structuring
around risk retention, as may otherwise be the case when using the face value of residual
interests or overcollateralization to measure the amount of horizontal risk retention. For
example, if a sponsor issues $100 million in asset-backed securities at par and retains a
first-loss residual interest with a face value of $5 million, that residual interest could yield
a market value below $5 million given the expected losses associated with the securitized
assets, in which case the sponsor would be holding less than 5 percent of the deal’s value.
Use of face value or overcollateralization to avoid the 5 percent risk retention
requirement will not be possible using fair value methodologies acceptable under GAAP
as it would account for the expected losses associated with the residual interest.
Moreover, and as a general matter, most investors and sponsors have experience with fair

471

value methodologies acceptable under GAAP and therefore using it in this context will
help to minimize the costs of evaluating the amount of risk retention held by sponsors
because it will be consistent with other valuation experiences.
There are also potential costs to investors associated with the use of a fair value
measurement framework. Fair value is a measurement framework that, for certain types
of instruments, where significant unobservable inputs are used to determine fair value,
requires an extensive use of judgment. Because of this extensive use of judgment, an
investor may be unable to determine if the sponsor’s fair value calculation uses
assumptions that are similar to the investor’s assumptions. In order to help mitigate this
potential cost, the agencies also are requiring, as proposed, that the sponsor disclose
specified information about how it calculates fair value. While this requirement should
discourage manipulation, sponsors will incur additional costs to prepare the necessary
disclosures. In addition, because the final rule specifies that fair value must be
determined using a fair value measurement framework consistent with GAAP, sponsors
will incur costs to ensure that the reported valuations are compliant with the valuation
standard.
With respect to the disclosure required in order to allow investors to evaluate and
understand the sponsor’s fair value calculation, the reproposal discussed the appropriate
level of detail to be provided to investors. One approach would be to provide the same
model inputs (e.g., prepayment rate, discount rates) that the sponsors used so that
investors could more precisely evaluate the sponsor’s fair value calculations. While
sponsors already have the model inputs they use to calculate fair value, as commenters
noted, there may be costs to the sponsors associated with providing investors with

472

sponsors’ proprietary information. For example, sponsors may base their model inputs
on proprietary information derived from the historical performance data of their loan
pools, information that has commercial value and is often compiled and sold to market
participants who purchase the data in order to derive model inputs similar to the ones that
sponsors would be required to disclose. Disclosure of the model inputs could thus lower
the commercial value of the historical data. Disclosing their inputs could also provide
competitors – with similar access to historical performance data – with insight into the
sponsor’s interpretation or selection of relevant benchmark data. Access to this insight
could reveal proprietary valuation methods or, as some commenters suggested, give rise
to litigation risk to the extent that there are differences in opinions on how to interpret the
data. Taken together, requiring sponsors to disclose precise information about their
model inputs could increase the cost to sponsors without necessarily providing additional
benefit to investors.
To help mitigate these potential costs, the final rule permits the disclosure of fair
value based on estimated ranges for tranche size, interest rates for each tranche, and
underwriting discount. The information is required to be provided a reasonable amount
of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed security. Also required to be included are the
sponsor’s key inputs and assumptions that may be described as a curve. The rule requires
that this disclosure be updated to reflect actual fair values of the ABS interests sold at the
closing date. This approach may enable investors to make meaningful assessments of
whether a sponsor’s fair value calculations are reasonable prior to making their
investment decisions, and at the same time may help to address sponsors’ concerns about
disclosing what they believe to be proprietary information and the timing of the

473

disclosure. The ranges of pricing information will allow investors to decide if the
sponsor’s model input curves are aggressive or conservative compared to their own
expectations based on their experiences and knowledge of the asset class.
In the case of revolving pool securitizations, the agencies are permitting the
seller’s interest option to be measured using face value. These securitizations have unique
structures described further below that would address the agencies’ concerns about the
use of face value of the ABS interests or the face value of the securitized assets to
circumvent risk retention requirements as described above. This option recognizes the
unique characteristics of certain structures and the impact of those structures on the
alignment of incentives for the transaction parties. This option also helps to minimize the
burden of fair value disclosure discussed in the reproposal while still allowing certain
structures to have a meaningful amount of risk retained and addressing some
commenters’ concerns about using a fair value measurement framework to measure risk
retention. One unique characteristic is that the vehicle will engage in multiple issuances
for the life of the master trust. Because of this, if the revolving pool securitization
contains poorly underwritten receivables that are expected to default then, in the future,
this will impact the ability of the sponsor to make future issuances of asset-backed
securities using the revolving pool securitization. The structure of revolving pool
securitizations aligns incentives between sponsors and investors, reduces the need for fair
value measurement that does not bring benefits to investors, and allows for face value
measurement, which will help to minimize costs for sponsors of revolving pool
securitizations.
b. Duration of the Risk Retention Requirement

474

Under the reproposal, sponsors would have been prohibited from selling or
otherwise transferring any interest or assets that they would be required to retain under
the rule to any person other than a consolidated affiliate for specified time periods. For
all ABS other than RMBS, the specified time period would have been the later of two
years after the closing date of the securitization or when the aggregate unpaid balance of
the ABS interests has been reduced to 33 percent. For RMBS, the specified time period
would have been the later of five years after the closing of the securitization or when the
pool balance has been reduced to 25 percent, but in no event later than seven years after
the closing of the securitization.
In response to the reproposal, commenters recommended various modifications to
the length of risk retention requirements. Some commenters suggested lengthening the
non-RMBS duration to three years, while other commenters questioned why only RMBS
and CMBS had asset specific durations and suggested lengthening or shortening periods
of time that were tied to a specific asset class or securitized asset quality. Finally, some
commenters suggested eliminating the alternative sunset period contingent on the unpaid
pool balance.
The agencies are adopting the sunset provisions as reproposed. The Commission
lacks the data to determine an optimal duration of these risk retention requirements, and
while commenters supported their positions based on relevant time periods that are tied to
securitized assets, no commenters submitted relevant data or other quantifiable
information. In particular, as stated in the reproposal, these time periods were chosen to
strike a balance between retaining risk long enough to align the sponsors’ and investors’
incentives and allowing the redeployment of retained capital for other productive uses. A

475

shorter duration was chosen for non-mortgage asset classes, because these loans tend to
have shorter maturities than mortgages and thus it may not be necessary to retain risk for
a longer period. The alternative sunset component contingent on the reduction of pool
balance further calibrates the required duration of risk retention based on the remaining
balances. By the time the loan pool balance decreases to 33 percent, the information
about the loan pool performance will be largely revealed, at which point the moral hazard
problem between the sponsor and the investor is likely to be significantly reduced.
We recognize that, in the case where the loan pool balance drops below the
prescribed threshold (25 percent for RMBS and 33 percent for other ABS) before the
prescribed number of years (five years for RMBS and two years for other ABS), the
additional required duration might be costly to the sponsor. A requirement that the
sponsor continue to retain exposure to the securitization once the impact of the initial
uncertainty about the ABS is resolved could potentially impede allocative efficiency by
limiting the sponsor’s ability to redeploy capital to new securitizations or other
investment opportunities. Moreover, as loan balances are paid down, the sponsor may
hold more risk relative to other investors because the size of the credit risk retention piece
is based on the initial size of the securitization and does not change with the current
market value. Thus, sponsors could face increased levels of risk retention on a
percentage of outstanding basis at the same time retained risk becomes less necessary.
While economic efficiency might be increased in certain circumstances by allowing
sponsors to withdraw their risk retention investment to use in new securitizations or other

476

credit forming activities, 437 the minimum fixed duration of risk retention is appropriate to
prevent structuring securitizations that would be quickly paid off to the balance threshold
points (25 percent or 33 percent) for the purposes of avoiding risk retention.
5. Forms of Risk Retention Menu of Options
Rather than prescribe a single form of risk retention, the final rule allows sponsors
to choose from a range of options to satisfy their risk retention requirements. As a
standard form of risk retention available to sponsors of all securitizations, sponsors may
choose vertical risk retention, horizontal risk retention, or any combination of those two
forms. Both the vertical and horizontal forms of risk retention require the sponsor to
share the risk of the securitized asset pool. The final rule also includes options tailored to
specific asset classes and structures such as revolving master trusts, CMBS, ABCP,
CLOs, and TOBs. Given the special characteristics of certain asset classes, some of these
options permit the sponsor to allocate a portion of the shared risk to originators, allow the
risk to be held by specified third parties, or allow the risk to be held in an identical asset
outside of the securitization.
Commenters generally supported the menu-based approach of providing sponsors
with the flexibility to choose from a number of permissible forms of risk retention. These
commenters believed that this provides sponsors with the flexibility to structure their risk
retention requirements to accommodate current market practices.

437

See Hartman-Glaser, Piskorski and Tchistyi, 2012, Optimal Securitization with Moral
Hazard. Journal of Financial Economics, vol. 104, no. 1, April 2012, pp. 186–202. They
consider the optimal design of MBS contracts between a mortgage underwriter that can
engage in costly hidden effort to screen borrowers and investors and show, among other
things, that the maturity of the optimal contract can be short.

477

By adopting a rule that will allow sponsors flexibility to choose how they retain
risk, the agencies seek to enable sponsors to select the approach that is most costeffective for them, while still fulfilling the purposes of Section 15G. As discussed
previously, the agencies are sensitive to the need to balance the goals of risk retention
(reduction of the moral hazard problem and better underwriting) with the need to
facilitate the efficient deployment of capital. A flexible approach to retaining risk will
permit sponsors to take into account a variety of factors, as discussed in more detail
below.
Various factors are likely to impact sponsors’ preferred method of retaining risk,
including size, funding costs, financial condition, riskiness of the securitized assets,
potential regulatory capital requirements, return on capital requirements, risk tolerances,
and accounting conventions. All else being equal, sponsors may prefer the option that
involves the least exposure to credit risk. For example, the horizontal form of standard
risk retention creates a fully subordinated residual interest that is more exposed to the
expected losses of the deal than a similarly sized vertical form, and therefore is more
sensitive to the deal’s credit risk. By contrast, a vertical form of standard risk retention is
comparable to a stand-alone pass-through securitization, which when held by the sponsor,
is the form of risk retention least exposed to a deal’s credit risk. As discussed below,
some sponsors may choose to use the horizontal method of risk retention or some
combination of the horizontal and vertical method in order to meet the risk retention
requirement.
In particular, sponsors have an incentive to calibrate the level of risk exposure that
minimizes their overall cost of funding. For example, some investors may be more likely

478

to purchase senior ABS interests if the sponsor retains a larger residual interest and thus
has more “skin in the game.” Alternatively, the sponsor may be unable to sell the
residual interest on terms that would minimize the sponsor’s cost of funding. In both
instances, sponsors would prefer an option with a higher level of exposure to credit risk.
This might be particularly true for securitizations that involve riskier or more opaque
assets or more complicated securitization structures. As discussed previously, the
potential need for retaining risk in a more costly form because the sponsor could not sell
the residual interest on acceptable terms could be attenuated for registered offerings that
are subject to the asset-level disclosure requirements under revised Regulation AB to the
extent that investors are able to quantify risks using the required loan-level disclosures
and are willing to purchase more of the residual interest on terms acceptable to the
sponsor.
As the Commission discusses below, a number of the options also attempt to
correspond to current market practices. By allowing sponsors to satisfy their risk
retention requirement while still maintaining current market practices, the proposed menu
of options approach should help to reduce additional costs of the required regime.
Moreover, the flexibility sponsors have to design how they hold credit risk will allow
them to calibrate and adjust their selections for each transaction according to changing
market conditions.
On the other hand, because sponsors will have a choice on how to retain risk, their
chosen structure may not always align interests and mitigate risks for investors in the
same manner. Thus, to the extent that some forms of risk retention create disparate

479

incentives for sponsors and investors, 438 the ability to rely on those options may not fully
address some of the conflicts of interest that contribute to the moral hazard problem that
characterize securitizations. In addition, the flexibility of this approach may increase the
complexity of implementation of risk retention because of the wide range of possible
choices available to sponsors.
a. Standard Risk Retention
The agencies are adopting the standard risk retention option as reproposed. In the
reproposal, the Commission provided separate analyses of the economic effects of
vertical risk retention, horizontal risk retention, or any combination of these two forms.
Many commenters generally supported the reproposal to allow a sponsor to meet its risk
retention obligation by using the standard risk retention option and approved of the
flexibility that the proposal would provide to sponsors in structuring their risk retention.
One commenter specifically expressed support for the single vertical security option,
asserting that it would simplify compliance and monitoring obligations of the sponsor.
The agencies continue to believe that it is appropriate to provide flexibility to
sponsors. This approach allows sponsors to minimize costs by selecting a customized
combination of vertical and horizontal risk retention that suits their individual situation

438

For example, if a sponsor is affiliated with a servicer (or has another way to influence
the servicing of assets), then different forms of risk retention may change how distressed
assets are serviced – more to the benefit of all investors or more to the benefit of junior
tranche holders’. In most cases, investors in the more senior tranches would favor
liquidation because liquidation of the securitized assets would reduce uncertainty and
eliminate the credit risk of a delinquent or defaulted asset and because losses resulting
from such liquidation of the securitized assets would be absorbed by investors in more
subordinated tranches. Alternatively, investors in more subordinated tranches would
favor a modification of the terms of a defaulted or delinquent asset because modification
potentially could minimize losses.

480

and circumstances, including relative market demand for the various types of interest that
may be retained under the rule. To the extent that the costs and benefits of credit risk
retention vary across time, across asset classes, or across sponsors, this approach would
implement risk retention in the broadest possible manner such that sponsors may choose
the combination of vertical and horizontal risk retention that they view as optimal. For
example, if investors are unable to accurately estimate the risk of the securitized asset, the
sponsor may be unable to sell the residual interest on acceptable terms, which would
mean any excess vertical risk retention would be an additional cost to such a sponsor.
Allowing flexibility will not only benefit sponsors but also will allow investors’ demands
to be more easily satisfied.
Below we discuss the economic implications of particular risk retention
structures.
i.

Eligible Horizontal Residual Interest

Under the eligible horizontal residual interest (EHRI) option, sponsors would hold
the first loss piece, which as described above, would reflect a larger credit exposure than
an equal percentage of retained risk using a form that included vertical retention. To the
extent that such a holding signals to investors that the information about the asset
portfolio being securitized is accurately represented and fairly priced, having this option
available to sponsors may improve investor participation and lead to enhanced capital
formation. However, horizontal risk retention used without vertical risk retention may
not fully align sponsor incentives with the incentives of investors in all of the tranches or
classes. Investors who are investing in the most senior tranches will have different

481

interests than the sponsor holding the residual interest, which is the most junior tranche,
especially concerning the servicing of under-performing assets. 439
There are several reasons why a sponsor may choose to hold a residual interest
instead of a vertical interest. Sponsors may be unable to sell the residual interest or, if
they are securitizing riskier loans, may hold the residual interest to increase investors’
interest in more senior tranches. In particular, to the extent that a sponsor is willing to
incur exposure to the first losses, investors may be willing to purchase the senior tranches
at higher prices. Also, if sponsors have a cost of capital that is higher than the return
provided by holding vertical risk retention, sponsors may choose to hold more
subordinated tranches and more of the credit risk to generate a return sufficient to meet
their required cost of capital. The holder of the residual interest generally receives a
higher rate of return than any other tranche of the deal and therefore a sponsor may
choose to hold horizontal risk retention in order to make the deal economically viable for
the sponsor. This would increase the amount of capital available for riskier loans as
sponsors’ demand for loans of a higher risk increases. In all these cases, any requirement
to retain a vertical interest would only impose additional costs on such sponsors.
In the reproposal, the agencies included cash flow restrictions with EHRI,
reasoning that if sponsors can structure securitizations in such a way that the residual
interest is able to receive cash early on in the deal then the sponsor’s incentive to select
loans with better underwriting may be reduced because the sponsor may be repaid all of

439

See footnote 438.

482

their principal investment (“cash out of the deal”) before losses accumulate and the deal
underperforms.
Many commenters supported elimination of the cash flow restrictions. They
asserted that these restrictions are incompatible with a variety of securitization structures,
that the certifications and disclosures to investors that would be required by the proposed
cash flow restriction would create potential liability, and that there are possible ways
around these restrictions such that they will not be meaningful but only increase costs to
sponsors. Commenters also stated that cash flow restrictions would prohibit almost all
securitizations from being issued as they are designed to pay high interest rates early on
to the residual holder as compensation for risk taken, and that most of the structures in
previously issued asset-backed securities would have failed the cash flow restriction tests.
According to these commenters, imposing the cash flow restrictions could thus require
current market participants to change their current practices, which could lead to a
reduction or cessation of the securitization markets, resulting in a decrease in capital
formation and reduction in allocative efficiency.
After considering the numerous comments received, the agencies have concluded
that the proposed cash flow restrictions on the EHRI (as well as the alternative described
in the reproposal and alternatives suggested by commenters) could lead to unintended
consequences and impose unnecessary burdens on some asset classes. Therefore, the
agencies have eliminated the previously proposed restrictions from the final rule. The
revised disclosure requirements being adopted relating to the key inputs and assumptions
underlying fair value calculations, however, should provide investors with the
information necessary to analyze whether the sponsor is being conservative or aggressive

483

in its estimate of the 5 percent risk retention holding. The rule also requires disclosure of
the material terms of the residual interest. By providing this information to investors, the
disclosure helps mitigate the concern that sponsors may provide accelerated returns to
themselves through the residual interest since investors will be able assess the likelihood
of such scenario based on this information. Eliminating the cash flow restriction
requirements would eliminate the costs to sponsors associated with changing their market
practice while potentially promoting competition among the sponsors for alternative
structures that optimize their retention and investor preferences.
ii.

Eligible Vertical Interest

A sponsor relying solely on the vertical option would hold a percentage of each
tranche, resulting in an economic exposure of 5 percent of the credit risk of the entire
loan pool. The primary benefit of vertical risk retention as compared to other standard
forms of risk retention is that investor-sponsor incentives will be equally aligned across
all ABS tranches.
Vertical risk retention is also subject to less credit risk exposure, and thus it will
be a cheaper method for the sponsor to satisfy the requirement both in terms of cost of
capital and in measurement and disclosure to investors. There is no requirement for
sponsors to provide a fair value estimate to investors, which could reduce the cost of
retaining risk relative to the costs associated with the other risk retention options.
Vertical risk retention will be relatively simple for investors to evaluate because the
sponsor will hold a specified percentage of each tranche. However, vertical risk retention
may be less optimal for sponsors who typically hold a first loss piece with the intent of
signaling higher quality of the senior tranches or for other reasons.

484

The benefits of the vertical form of risk retention extend to other market
participants as well. By allowing sponsors to choose a vertical form of risk retention,
there will be increased flexibility to choose higher yielding assets and provide greater
access to credit to viable but higher-risk borrowers than would otherwise be possible
through only a horizontal form of risk retention. Investors interested in holding residual
interests will benefit from a vertical form of risk retention as they will be able to purchase
more higher-yielding first loss pieces of securitizations, while investors who demand
tranches above the first loss piece will have less supply available because the sponsor
would hold 5 percent of each tranche instead of holding all of its retained risk in the
residual interest.
The final rule also permits a single vertical security, as proposed. All economic
considerations that apply to vertical risk retention will apply to the single vertical security
except that the single vertical security may allow sponsors to comply with risk retention
in a less costly manner in terms of administrative fees and accounting costs. If the
sponsors’ costs of risk retention are lower while still providing the same incentive
alignment, then cost of credit for borrowers may be lower.
iii.

Combined Risk Retention Option

The final rule allows sponsors to retain risk through any combination of a vertical
form and a horizontal form provided that the total percentages of retained forms in the
securitization add up to 5 percent. For example, a sponsor can hold 3 percent in the
vertical form and 2 percent in the horizontal form in reliance on a combination of the
horizontal and vertical forms of risk retention.

485

As noted above, horizontal risk retention allows sponsors to provide a stronger
signal about their private information about asset quality than vertical risk retention
because of the increased amount of credit exposure for sponsors. Hence, a sponsor
choosing to retain risk in a more expensive horizontal form over a vertical form would
have greater exposure to credit risk, and that sponsor’s incentives should be better aligned
with investors’. As previously described, by choosing a higher cost method of retaining
risk, such as through the horizontal form, a sponsor can signal to the market greater
certainty about the quality of assets and the level of risk in the senior tranches because the
sponsor is willing to incur the losses in the lower subordination. However, the optimal
size of the residual interest for a sponsor that seeks to maximize the proceeds and
minimize the sponsor’s overall cost of funding from securitization may not be 5 percent.
Finally, sponsors may choose to hold some residual interest in an attempt to gain
a higher return on capital. In this case, again, the optimal size of the residual interest to
achieve sponsor’s required return may not be 5 percent. The combination of the
horizontal and vertical forms reduces costs to sponsors by allowing them to hold some of
their risk retention in the cheaper vertical form while still receiving credit for the residual
interest they retain. Moreover, the vertical form of risk retention still allows for a more
equal alignment of sponsors’ interests with all types of investors because the sponsor will
hold a portion of all of the tranches in the securitization.
Allowing a flexible combination of the horizontal and vertical forms
accommodates various current market practices. Some asset classes have been able to
monetize more of their exposure to securitized assets than other asset classes. Typically
the range for RMBS has been closer to 1-3 percent of overcollateralization than to the 5

486

percent of fair value for the retained first loss piece required by the final rule. Thus, the
flexible combination of horizontal and vertical forms will allow sponsors to continue to
retain risk as they have in the past while keeping the cost of risk retention to a minimum.
The flexibility of the combination of the horizontal and vertical forms also allows
sponsors to better meet demands of investors. If investors want to hold more of the
residual tranche, the sponsor can hold less risk in the horizontal form and more risk in the
vertical form to be able to sell interests in the residual tranche to investors. Alternatively,
if there is a larger demand for more senior tranches, then sponsors can hold more risk
horizontally. This flexibility will increase allocative efficiency within the ABS market.
The flexible combination of the horizontal and vertical forms also increases competition
among sponsors because it allows sponsors to adjust several dimensions of the
securitization: risk retention costs, expected returns on retained pieces, and supply of
tranches with different risk characteristics.
b. Options for Specific Asset Classes and Structures
i.

Seller’s Interest Option

The reproposed rule would have allowed a sponsor of a revolving master trust that
is collateralized by loans or other extensions of credit to meet its risk retention
requirement by retaining a seller’s interest in an amount not less than 5 percent of the
unpaid principal balance of the pool assets held by the sponsor. Commenters stated that
the reproposed version of the seller’s interest option would not accommodate all the
common market practices in the master trust market. They suggested methods to broaden
the options available to revolving master trusts to allow a wider variety of market
practices to count as risk retention.

487

The agencies are revising the seller’s interest option for revolving pool
securitizations (referred to as revolving master trusts in the reproposal) in the final rule in
order to accommodate more of the practices of sponsors that currently rely on revolving
pool securitizations as an important component of their funding. These revisions
recognize and accommodate the meaningful exposure to credit risk currently held by
sponsors of these revolving pool securitizations, in light of the heightened alignment of
incentives between sponsors and investors that attaches to their structural features. The
agencies are also making a number of other refinements in the final rule in order to align
the seller’s interest option more closely with the mechanics of revolving pool
securitizations as they are structured in the market today.
The pari passu seller’s interest option in the final rule represents a special form of
exposure to credit risk for the asset-backed security issued by a revolving pool
securitization. Under this option, the sponsor must maintain the size of the seller’s
interest position, most commonly through the ongoing addition of receivables to the pool
or repayment of investor ABS interests. Commenters also requested that the agencies
accommodate other revolving pool securitizations that are common in the market and rely
on a seller’s interest that is structured in a different manner, which varies among the
revolving pool securitizations used for certain asset classes. Commenters described two
different structures, which the agencies believe should be recognized as an eligible form
of risk retention under the final rule.
The agencies have recognized a series subordinated seller’s interest in a revolving
pool securitization as eligible risk retention in the final rule. As described by
commenters, a series subordinated seller’s interest is a common feature of revolving pool

488

securitizations for certain asset classes, such as equipment leasing and floorplan
financing. In these revolving pool securitizations, the sponsor is obligated, as is the case
with the pari passu seller’s interest, to maintain an undivided interest in the receivables in
the collateral pool, in an amount equal to a specified percentage of the trust’s outstanding
investor ABS interests. Whereas the pari passu seller’s interest is a trust-level interest
equal to a minimum percentage of the combined outstanding investor ABS interests, the
minimum percentage in subordinated seller’s interest revolving pool securitizations may
be tied to the outstanding investor ABS interests of each separate series. While the
sponsor’s right to receive distributions on the seller’s interest included in the reproposal
was required to be pari passu, the sponsor’s right to receive distributions on its share of
distributions in subordinated seller’s interest revolving pool securitizations may be
subordinated to varying extents to the series’ share of credit losses.
Importantly, commenters noted that notwithstanding these differences with the
pari passu seller’s interest, the sponsor of a series subordinated seller’s interest revolving
pool securitization is still required to maintain the minimum amount of securitized assets
in the pool, if the securitization is to continue revolving, through the ongoing addition of
assets to the pool if necessary. The sponsor has incentives to monitor the quality of the
assets added to the pool in both structures. If the sponsor replaces repaid or defaulted
assets with poorly underwritten assets, those assets will, in turn, suffer losses, and the
sponsor will be obligated to add even more assets. If this cycle is perpetuated and the
minimum asset target is breached, the revolving pool securitization will enter an early
amortization period, and the sponsor will no longer have access to future funding from
the revolving pool securitization. Because the subordination of the seller’s interest does

489

not change this potential consequence and provides similar economic incentives as the
pari passu seller’s interest for the sponsor to monitor and maintain the quality of
securitized assets in the pool, the final rule recognizes this “series subordinated” form of
seller’s interest as an eligible form of risk retention for revolving pool securitizations.
Allowing the series subordinated seller’s interest accommodates existing market practice
and will therefore minimize costs to certain revolving pool securitizations, while
providing the intended benefit of aligning sponsor and investor incentives which will
encourage higher quality underwriting.
Commenters also described another form of seller’s interest used in revolving
pool securitizations for certain asset classes, such as equipment leasing and floorplan
financing, which are often collateralized by various types of “excess” receivables. The
transaction documents for revolving pool securitizations typically impose eligibility
requirements on the receivables that are allowed to be included as collateral for purposes
of calculating the total amount of outstanding investor ABS interests that may be issued
by the revolving trust. These eligibility requirements include concentration limits on
receivables with common characteristics, such as those originating from a particular
manufacturer or dealer or a particular geographic area. The sponsor places assets that
exceed these concentration limits (ineligible assets) in the revolving pool securitization,
where they are often subject to the pledge of collateral to the holders of the ABS
interests, but they are not included when calculating the amount of the seller’s interest
under the revolving pool securitization. Distributions on these ineligible assets are
typically allocated to the sponsor, but depending on the terms of the securitization, the
sponsor’s claim to the cash flow from these assets may be partially or fully subordinated

490

to the claims of investor ABS interests, and these subordination features may be at the
trust level, at the series level, or some combination of both.
While the agencies are persuaded that revolving pool securitizations should be
allowed to hold these receivables without violating the common pool requirement, the
final rule, consistent with market practice described above, does not allow these excess
receivables to be included in the measurement of seller’s interest. Because these are
assets that by their terms are not representative of the assets that stand as the principal
repayment source for investor ABS interests issued by the revolving pool securitization,
the agencies believe, in conformance with market practice, that it would be inappropriate
to include them in the calculation of the seller’s interest. This accommodation for
existing market practice allows a greater number of existing revolving pool securitization
structures to meet the risk retention requirements, which should reduce the costs of
compliance with the final rule and minimize disruption to existing structures. The
agencies also recognize that some revolving pool securitizations make distributions on
these receivables available to cover losses on eligible pool assets, which increases the
amount of credit enhancement available to investors.
The agencies are adopting the seller’s interest option generally as reproposed with
certain modifications to incorporate more existing revolving pool securitizations. The
Commission believes that there are several benefits to recognizing the existing seller’s
interests in revolving pool securitizations as an eligible form of risk retention. Aligning
the rule’s requirements with current market practice will reduce implementation costs for
sponsors using the master trust structure while still retaining the benefits that investors
receive through improved selection of underlying assets by the sponsors of revolving

491

pool securitizations. Accommodating current practice will be transparent and easy for
the market to understand and will preserve current levels of efficiency and help to
maintain investors’ willingness to invest in the market. Accommodating current practice
will also provide clarity to market participants and may encourage additional investor
participation given the removal of previous uncertainty about potential changes to current
practices, thereby helping to promote capital formation. Under this option, there would
be a cost to sponsors of measuring the seller’s interest amount on an ongoing basis in
accordance with the final rule, but since ongoing measurement is a current market
practice, the additional cost should be low. Unlike more traditional securitization
transactions collateralized by a static pool of assets, revolving pool securitizations use a
single issuing entity to issue multiple series. These accommodations should allow
sponsors of revolving pool securitizations to continue to use the same issuing entity and
minimize the potential disruption to the market that could be caused by bifurcating the
common pool of securitized assets or any other restructuring of the issuing entities, and
any of their outstanding asset-backed securities issued prior to the applicable effective
date of the final rule.
As discussed above, the agencies are modifying the seller’s interest option to
accommodate more of the market practices that currently exist. Accommodating more
market practices will reduce costs for sponsors of revolving pool securitizations that
otherwise would not been able to rely on the reproposed version of the seller’s interest
option and thereby help to promote competition within this segment of the market.
ii.

Representative Sample

492

The agencies also considered the alternative option of risk retention held through
a representative sample of the securitized assets that was proposed in 2011, but not
included in the 2013 reproposal.
While some commenters were supportive of the original proposal’s inclusion of
the representative sample option, many commenters were critical of the option, stating
that it would be impractical to implement this option for a variety of reasons, including
that it would be unworkable for various asset classes, it would be subject to manipulation,
and its disclosure requirements were too burdensome. Some commenters on the
reproposal asked for the representative sample to be reinstated, asserting that a revised
representative sample option would be particularly useful for automobile loan and lease
securitizations, and more generally, for securitizations with large pools of consumer or
retail assets, such as student loans. However, these commenters did not specify the costs
of not including such an option in the final rule.
The agencies continue to believe a representative sample option should not be
included in the final rule because, among other reasons, it would be difficult and
potentially costly for investors and regulators to monitor or verify that exposures were
indeed selected randomly, rather than in a manner that favored the sponsor. In order to
allow sponsors to hold a representative sample, a number of material factors would need
to be considered for the sample to be truly representative. However, even if many factors
are considered, a factor could potentially be missed, and as a result, sponsors would end
up holding a sample that differed in a material way from the pool assets. This could lead
to ineffective alignment of incentives and therefore fail to realize one of the intended
benefits of the rule. Due to these concerns, the agencies have decided not to include a

493

representative sample option in the final rule. Sponsors using this structure will incur
costs to comply with the requirements of the final rule because the final rule does not
include a representative sample option as one of the permissible forms of risk retention.
iii.

Asset-Backed Commercial Paper Conduits Option

Under the reproposal, sponsors of ABCP conduits could either hold 5 percent of
the risk using the standard risk retention option, as discussed above, or could rely on the
ABCP option. The proposed ABCP option would not have required the sponsor of the
conduit, which is typically a special purpose vehicle, to retain risk as long as the assets
held in the ABCP conduit, which are often ABS interests in other asset classes, are not
purchased in the secondary markets, and the sponsor of every ABS interest held by the
ABCP conduit complies with the credit risk retention requirements. Another condition of
the proposed conduit option was the requirement that the ABCP conduit have 100 percent
liquidity support from a regulated institution.
Commenters generally repeated earlier requests that the agencies provide an
exemption based on, or otherwise recognize, unfunded risk retention provided by banks
in the form of liquidity support, program wide credit enhancement, unconditional letters
of credit, and similar features, as satisfying the risk retention requirements. Commenters
also requested that ABCP conduits relying on this option be permitted to use a broader
range of transaction structures and purchase a wider variety of assets. Finally, some
commenters suggested the elimination or modification of the proposed requirements to
disclose fair value calculations and supporting information by conduit managers about an
originator-seller’s failure to comply with risk retention requirements, stating that such

494

disclosure under current market conditions could risk the collapse of the particular ABCP
conduit and pose a contagion risk to the other conduits. 440
The agencies are adopting the ABCP option substantially as reproposed except for
certain modifications based on comments received to accommodate a greater range of
current market practices for existing ABCP structures in the ABCP option. The agencies
have not adopted commenters’ suggestion to permit the application of the ABCP option
to certain types of assets not covered by the reproposal or transaction structures with less
than 100 percent liquidity support. Restricting the option to ABCP conduits that hold
only certain ABS interests is a structural safeguard that while possibly limiting the ability
raise capital through ABCP conduits, will increase the alignment of incentives between
sponsors of ABCP conduits and investors.
Under the final rule, eligible ABCP conduits may only purchase ABS interests in
an initial issuance. By limiting an eligible ABCP conduit to holding ABS interests
acquired in initial issuances, a sponsor will be in a better position to potentially influence
the terms of the deal and have an effect on the quality of assets underlying the ABS
interests relative to if the ABS interests were acquired in the secondary market post
issuance. However, by conditioning ABCP conduit eligibility to rely on the ABCP
option on the purchase of ABS interests in an initial issuance, the rule could have a
negative impact on secondary markets, possibly resulting in lower liquidity and
potentially decreasing the efficiency in the secondary markets for ABS interests.
Additionally, the agencies understand that ABCP conduit structures that primarily relied

440

The Commission believes that the diversification of ABS interests and the 100
percent liquidity support requirement make this scenario highly improbable.

495

on secondary market purchases (arbitrage ABCP conduits) performed poorly during the
financial crisis.
Allowing the ABCP option provides incentive to improve underwriting while
minimizing the impact on ABCP funding costs, thereby lessening the potential burden on
capital formation as ABCP conduit sponsors will not need to use their capital to retain 5
percent of the ABS interest issued by the ABCP conduit. The risk retention option for
ABCP conduits includes specific requirements for a regulated liquidity provider that
provides liquidity support with contractual terms that meet certain requirements. We
estimate that approximately half of existing ABCP conduit sponsors may need to adjust
the terms of their existing liquidity support in order to comply with the requirements of
the final rule, and therefore will incur costs to implement the liquidity support necessary
to meet the new requirements. The liquidity support requirements are largely consistent
with the exclusion from the definition of covered fund for certain ABCP conduits in the
rules implementing Section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, the Commission
believes ABCP conduits sponsored by banks, which make up the bulk of the ABCP
market, 441 already have or will have liquidity support that will comply with the final rule,
and therefore the new requirements will not materially increase their costs.
Maintaining current practice and requiring 100 percent liquidity coverage without
regard to asset performance will be transparent and easy for investors to understand and
implement, and help to maintain investor’s willingness to invest in ABCP. Adoption of
the liquidity coverage requirement and removal of previous uncertainty about liquidity

441

Asset-Backed Alert, March 28, 2014, lists the 20 largest ABCP conduit
administrators. All but one of them are large banks. The non-bank is Lord Securities.

496

coverage (i.e. under what conditions liquidity support would be provided) should also
provide clarity to investors and may encourage additional investment, thereby lowering
the cost, or increasing the amount, of capital formation in ABCP and underlying assetbacked securities markets. However, the liquidity support could have the effect of
lowering the yields of the ABS interests because investors will face less risk compared to
less than 100 percent liquidity support.
Other modifications that the agencies are making will also permit more existing
market practices to be used with the ABCP option. Accommodating these market
practices will reduce costs to those ABCP conduits that were not covered under the
reproposed version of the ABCP option and thereby help to promote competition within
this segment of the market.
iv.

Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities Option

The agencies are adopting the CMBS option largely as reproposed. The
Commission continues to believe that the option provides a means to satisfy the risk
retention requirements that, for the most part, will allow CMBS issuers to continue
current market practice relating to techniques that align incentives and improve
underwriting standards. Under the final rule, a sponsor will be able to satisfy the risk
retention requirements by having up to two third-party purchasers (provided that each
party’s interest is pari passu with the other party’s interest) purchase an eligible
horizontal residual interest (B-piece) in the issuing entity if it is backed solely by
commercial real estate loans and servicing assets. The third-party purchaser(s) would be
required to acquire and retain an eligible horizontal residual interest in the issuing entity
in the same form, amount, and manner as the sponsor (with the same hedging, transfer,

497

and other restrictions) except that after five years the third-party purchaser can sell the Bpiece to another eligible third-party purchaser.
As discussed in Section 3.b.ii of this Economic Analysis, currently the B-piece
investors in CMBS often hold dual roles as bond investors, if the assets remain current on
their obligations, and as holders of controlling interests to appoint special servicers, if the
loans default and go into special servicing. The B-piece investors are typically real estate
specialists who use their extensive knowledge about the underlying assets and mortgages
in the pools to conduct extensive due diligence on new deals. Such due diligence is
feasible because typically CMBS have much smaller number of underlying loans in a
pool. 442 Consequently, since B-piece buyers are taking the credit risk and have an ability
to perform their own due diligence on securitized assets before purchasing the residual
tranche, the third party holding risk effectively serves as an independent re-underwriter of
the underlying loans, achieving a quality of re-underwriting consistent with the quality of
underwriting of a sponsor that would retain credit risk on its own balance sheet. B-piece
buyers also have the ability to affect the performance of the securitization when problems
arise. Because they usually have expertise in commercial real estate and are holders of
controlling interests to appoint special servicers (and often have special servicers
affiliates), they facilitate restructuring of underperforming loans to maintain the structure
of a CMBS. By providing for the continued retention of risk and strong incentive to the
sponsor to limit potential moral hazard problems at the time the structure is put in place,

442

See also footnote 424.

498

the effect of the CMBS risk retention option on the moral hazard problem will likely be
similar to the effect of one of the standard risk retention options.
Allowing the third-party purchaser to sell the B-piece to another eligible thirdparty purchaser after a minimum holding period should generate secondary market
liquidity, thereby lessening the original purchaser’s cost of retaining the risk and
encourages greater participation in the CMBS market by eligible B-piece purchasers.
The resulting secondary market transactions could generate additional benefits to CMBS
investors to the extent that B-piece buyers have differential skills with respect to
assessing the risk at the time of origination, monitoring performance, and engaging in
restructuring activity when performance issues arise. Allowing the transfer of the Bpiece will allow the transfer of the B-piece to a purchaser with specialized skills
appropriate to the particular situations.
Under the final rule, use of the CMBS option requires the appointment of an
independent operating advisor who, among other obligations, has the authority to
recommend and call a vote for removal of the special servicer under certain conditions.
This requirement may serve to limit potential conflicts of interest between the investors
in senior tranches and the B-piece buyer(s), thus helping to ensure that the benefits of the
risk retention requirements are preserved and extended to all investors. There will be
costs, however, related to the appointment of the independent operating advisor,
including, but not limited to, the payments to the advisor. 443

443

According to CRE Finance World, Autumn 2012, Volume 14, No.3, pp. 47–50, the
operating advisor fee rate is “modest.” Other costs may include delays in special servicer
replacement due to the need to call for investors’ vote, and a possible loss of efficiency
499

The primary benefit of allowing sponsors to maintain their current market
practices is to effectively achieve the intended objectives of risk retention with minimized
cost to the CMBS market. Commenters generally supported the CMBS option as
reproposed, with one investor commenter cautioning against further modifications to the
proposed CMBS option, expressing the view that CMBS underwriting standards were
beginning to deteriorate. However, some comment letters suggested changes from the
reproposal.
Commenters suggested increasing the 5 percent minimum quorum requirement
for a vote to replace the special servicer to 15 percent or 20 percent, and adding a
requirement that no fewer than three unaffiliated investors participate in the vote. The
agencies have decided to permit CMBS transaction parties to specify in the underlying
transaction documents the quorum required for a vote to remove the special servicer,
provided it is not more than 20 percent of the outstanding principal balance of all ABS
interests in the issuing entity, with such quorum including at least three ABS interest
holders that are not affiliated with each other.
The final rule includes these suggested changes to address the concern that a 5
percent quorum could allow a B-piece buyer holding 5 percent of the CMBS deal to
replace the special servicer alone without consent of other investors. As discussed in
Section 3.b.ii of this Economic Analysis and in Part III.B.5 of the Supplementary
Information, the B-piece investors in CMBS often have an affiliate special servicer and,
as holders of controlling interests, they can appoint that affiliated entity if the loans

because operating advisors may be less knowledgeable of the special servicing market
than B-piece buyers.

500

default and go into special servicing. An affiliate special servicer could make decisions
about loan restructuring in the interest of its affiliated B-piece holder that are inconsistent
with the interests of all investors. Thus, requiring at least three investors that are not
affiliated with each other for the quorum would ensure that the economic interest of at
least some senior tranche investors would be accommodated in the selection of the
special servicer and subsequent restructuring.
Raising the maximum quorum requirement to 20 percent from 5 percent in the
final rule will further ensure that other CMBS investors will participate in the selection of
the special servicer. Limiting the maximum quorum requirement to 20 percent also
ensures that investors do not face an undue burden in coordinating with other dispersed
investors to call a vote to change the special servicer. Currently, transaction agreements
can stipulate any quorum threshold. If a transaction agreement currently stipulates a
threshold that is too high, the coordination costs attributed to collective action could
prevent potentially efficient changes in the special servicer. On the other hand, with less
ability to influence the selection of the special servicer, combined with an inability to
disinvest until the expiration of the sunset period, B-piece buyers will have less incentive
to invest in B-pieces. Hence, relative to current practices, mandating a lower maximum
quorum requirement could generate benefits in some cases.
The agencies considered but did not adopt the suggestion to allow third party
purchasers to hold their interests in a senior/subordinate structure, rather than pari passu,
to match the risk of loss of each B-piece interest and the risk tolerances of each B-piece
buyer. Commenters asserted that a senior-subordinated structure would better allow the
market to appropriately and efficiently price the B-piece interests in a manner that is

501

commensurate with the risk of loss of each interest, and to address the different risk
tolerance levels of each third-party purchaser. However, other commenters strongly
opposed allowing third-party purchasers to satisfy the risk retention requirements through
a senior-subordinated structure, commenting that such a change would significantly
dilute and render ineffective the risk retention requirements. The agencies have decided
not to allow third-party purchasers to satisfy the risk retention requirement with a seniorsubordinated structure. As noted earlier, the purpose of third-party risk retention is to
create a transaction participant that would serve as an independent re-underwriter of the
underlying loans. A “senior” B-piece holder in this structure might not be appropriately
compensated for employing sufficient resources to re-underwrite a CMBS transaction
because its expected return would be too low to compensate for the expenditure of
resources necessary for re-underwriting. In addition, the pari passu requirement better
aligns the interests of the most junior tranche buyer(s) with those of more senior
noteholders whereas the senior/subordinated structure for the B-piece would further
separate the interests of most junior tranche buyer(s) (that in this case could hold the first
loss tranche that might be significantly smaller than 5 percent) from those of the senior
noteholders, which could exacerbate conflicts of interest issues in this area.
Some commenters opposed the disclosure of the purchase price paid by thirdparty purchasers for the eligible horizontal residual interest. These commenters pointed
out that such information has traditionally been viewed by all market participants as
highly confidential and proprietary, and that the disclosure requirement would deter Bpiece buyers from retaining risk. The Commission acknowledges that, if B-piece buyers
are deterred from purchasing eligible residual horizontal interests, this could lower the

502

liquidity of the junior tranches of CMBS and, thus, potentially increase the sponsors’ cost
of capital and the cost of credit for borrowers. However, the agencies continue to believe
that requiring disclosure of the price at which the B-piece is sold is important to
understanding the value of the third party’s risk retention (and therefore whether the
required amount has been retained) and would be consistent with other required fair value
disclosures for any eligible horizontal residual interest retained by the sponsor that allow
investors to assess the amount of risk being retained. 444 Hence, the ability of investors to
quantify the amount of credit risk exposure of the B-piece buyer, and thus the level of
incentive alignment with other investors, generates benefits that would not be possible if
B-piece buyers were able to keep the price confidential.
The final rule provides additional flexibility for the CMBS option by allowing up
to two third-party purchasers to satisfy the risk retention requirement. This provision
accommodates current the market practice 445 and should facilitate liquidity of the residual
piece market, contributing to a lower cost of capital for sponsors and borrowers. While
commenters generally supported allowing up to two third-party purchasers to hold risk
retention, one commenter recommended expanding the number of third-party purchasers
to allow participation by more than two B-piece investors. The agencies do not believe it
would be appropriate to allow more than two third-party purchasers in a single
transaction. While allowing more than two purchasers could increase B-piece market

444

See Section 4.a.ii of this Economic Analysis.

445

Based on Commercial Mortgage Alert, out of 61 private label U.S. CMBS deals in
2013 that had B-piece buyers, 50 had a single B-piece buyer, 12 had two B-piece buyers,
and none of the deals had more than two B-piece buyers.

503

liquidity and, in turn, reduce costs for CMBS sponsors, it also could dilute the incentives
generated by the risk retention requirement to monitor the credit quality of the
commercial mortgages in the pool, thereby undermining the intended benefits of the rule.
Each B-piece investor who has exposure to significantly less than 5 percent credit risk,
would have not enough “skin in the game” to be incentivized to monitor the quality of
underwriting as discussed in Section 4.a.i. of this Economic Analysis.
v.

Government Sponsored Entities Option

The final rule allows the full guarantee of the Enterprises under conservatorship
or receivership to count as risk retention for purposes of the risk retention requirements.
Because of the capital support provided by the U.S. government for the Enterprises,
investors in Enterprise ABS are not exposed to credit loss, and there is no incremental
benefit to be gained by requiring the Enterprises to retain risk.
Commenters generally supported allowing the Enterprises’ guarantee to be an
acceptable form of risk retention in accordance with the conditions proposed and did not
suggest any alternatives. The agencies are adopting the Enterprise option as reproposed.
This option along with the Enterprises’ capital support from the U.S. government
creates a competitive advantage for the Enterprises over private-sector sponsors when
purchasing non-QRM loans as long as they are conforming to the Enterprises
underwriting standards. Recognizing the Enterprises’ guarantee as fulfilling their risk
retention requirement and the resulting additional competitive advantage over sponsors of
non-QRM conforming loans has two significant economic benefits. First, it will allow
the Enterprises to facilitate the availability of capital to segments of the population that
might not otherwise have access through private sector channels. Second, it will provide

504

stable funding of home financing in periods when lenders curb their lending due to
limited access to capital and private-sector sponsors are unable or unwilling to meet
excess demand.
A potential cost of recognizing the Enterprises’ guarantee as fulfilling their risk
retention requirement is that it may incentivize them to purchase loans that do not meet
the QRM criteria (i.e., expanding the Enterprises’ conforming loans underwriting
criteria), which would introduce risk that the risk retention requirement is intended to
mitigate. However, analysis of loans originated between 1997 and 2009, a period that
spans the onset of the financial crisis, shows that private label loans had a much higher
serious delinquency rate than Enterprise purchased loans, even after accounting for
different underlying loan characteristics. 446 Hence, this historical performance-based
evidence suggests that Enterprise underwriting standards may offset any incentive to
incur excess risk because of their capital support, at least in relation to the incentives and
behaviors among private label sponsors during the same period.
If the Enterprises’ conservatorship is terminated, their securitizations will no
longer be exempt from risk retention requirements unless the securitized assets meet the
QRM definition. This will put the Enterprises on even footing with private label
securitizations in terms of risk retention, but, as was the case before the crisis, the
Enterprises still carry an implicit guarantee of the U.S. government and, thus, will retain
some of their funding advantage for both QRM and non-QRM securitizations. Private

446

See Joshua White and Scott Bauguess, Qualified Residential Mortgage: Background
Data Analysis on Credit Risk Retention, (August 2013), available at
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/riskfin/whitepapers/qrm-analysis-08-2013.pdf.

505

label securitizations may still have the limited ability to be a significant source of capital
to conforming non-QRM loan originations until the Enterprises wind down their activity
or the implicit guarantee is eliminated. As is the case now, private label securitizations
would not have to compete with the Enterprises for securitizations of non-conforming
loans (e.g., riskier non-qualified mortgage (non-QM) loans or jumbo loans), which will
still fall outside of the Enterprises domain if current conforming loan underwriting
standards remain in place.
vi.

Open Market Collateralized Loan Obligations

A collateralized loan obligation (CLO) is an asset-backed security that is typically
collateralized by portions of tranches of senior, secured commercial loans or similar
obligations of borrowers who are of lower credit quality or that do not have a third-party
evaluation of the likelihood of timely payment of interest and repayment of principal.
Commenters distinguished between two general types of CLOs: open market CLOs and
balance sheet CLOs. As described by commenters, a balance sheet CLO securitizes loans
already held by a single institution or its affiliates in portfolio (including assets originated
by the institution or its affiliate). An open market CLO securitizes assets purchased on
the secondary market at the direction of an asset manager, in accordance with investment
guidelines. Under the final rule, sponsors of CLOs are required to retain 5 percent of risk
using the standard form of risk retention and have not been provided with an exemption
from the rule’s requirements. CLOs are subject to the same sunset provisions as other
non-residential mortgage securitizations.
As an alternative to this standard risk retention, the agencies are adopting, as
proposed, an option for sponsors of open market CLOs to satisfy the risk retention

506

requirement by holding only “CLO-eligible” tranches for which the syndicated loan’s
“lead arranger” retains (for the duration of the loan) at least 5 percent of the tranche’s
value. A syndication’s “lead arranger” is defined as a syndicated member that holds an
initial allocation of the overall syndicated credit facility equal to (at least) the greater of
(a) 20 percent of the aggregate principal balance and (b) the largest allocation taken by
any other member (or members affiliated with each other) of the syndication group. The
agencies have defined open market CLOs for purposes of the lead arranger option being
adopted. The analysis below considers the impact of the risk retention requirements and
the lead arranger option on the market for open market CLOs, which was the subject of
many comment letters. 447
Under the final rule, the risk retention requirements for open market CLOs are
subject to the same sunset provisions as other non-residential mortgage securitizations.
These provisions require CLO sponsors to retain risk until the latest of: (1) the date on
which the principal balance of the securitized assets reduces to 33 percent of the original
unpaid principal balance as of the date of the closing of the securitization, (2) the date on
which the unpaid principal obligations of securities has been reduced to 33 percent of the
original unpaid principal obligations at the closing of the securitization transaction, or (3)
two years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction.
The loans backing CLOs typically have maturities that can extend beyond the
term of the CLOs, particularly when the loans are added to the pool after issuance, which

447

In balance sheet CLOs the originator of the loan is the sponsor or an affiliate of the
sponsor. For balance sheet CLOs, economically there is no difference between the lead
arranger option and standard risk retention when the sponsor is the originator or its
affiliate.

507

could mean that loan balances of loans held by a CLO may not necessarily decrease prior
to the maturity or redemption of the CLO. Hence, the final rule may effectively require
the CLO manager (as the sponsor of the CLO) to retain risk beyond the minimum sunset
period. This should lessen the incentive for managers to alter the composition of the loan
portfolio in a way that could harm investors relative to what may be present with a
shorter sunset period.
A key difference between this lead arranger option and those related to, for
example, commercial mortgage backed securities is that the CLO manager must rely on
the lead arranger’s continuing 5 percent retention of risk in the CLO-eligible loans, in
order for the CLO manager to satisfy its risk retention obligations. Thus, unlike a
portfolio of commercial mortgages, the CLO requirement extends beyond the initiation
date of the securitization so that the status of the lead arrangers’ continuing participation
may affect the CLO manager.
The agencies received many comments about the lead arranger option, and the
impact of risk retention on the market for open market CLOs. These comments can be
categorized into four main areas: (1) the impact of the lead arranger option on the
availability and cost of leveraged loans; (2) the unwillingness or inability of arrangers to
create CLO-eligible tranches; (3) alternative options for sponsors of open market CLOs
to retain risk; and (4) general concerns about the impact of risk retention on the CLO
industry and the syndicated loan market.
Regarding the impact of the lead arranger option on borrowing costs, commenters
asserted that the proposed option would be unworkable with existing CLO practices and
therefore the risk retention requirements would result in a significant reduction in CLO

508

issuances and a corresponding reduction in credit to commercial borrowers. Commenters
further asserted that the requirement that the lead arranger retain at least 5 percent of an
eligible tranche would increase the required capital and FDIC assessment charges,
thereby increasing the pricing of CLO-eligible tranches, and adversely impacting
borrowing costs. Moreover, some commenters noted that only a very small number of
arrangers can meet the definition of “lead arranger” as proposed, because the syndication
of leveraged loans is concentrated among a small number of banks. 448 According to
these commenters, requiring lead arrangers to hold a relatively large piece of these
syndicated loans on their balance sheets would cause a substantial increase in their riskbased capital requirement. 449 Further, commenters noted that the requirement to retain 5
percent of the eligible tranche, combined with the hedging and transfer restrictions, is
inconsistent with sound risk management practices, overly burdensome in light of
regulatory and lending limits and would reduce the lead arranger’s ability to extend
credit. Commenters also stated that these additional costs, imposed on the lead arranger,
would be passed on to the corporate borrowers, restricting access to and cost of capital.
One commenter observed that only a handful of non-regulated entities have a
sufficient amount of available capital to arrange and syndicate leveraged loans and satisfy

448

Based on Bloomberg L.P. data, the largest five banks arranged 47 percent of the
syndicated leveraged loans in 2013.

449

One commenter pointed out that banks and other highly regulated financial entities
represent almost the entire market of originators of the loans that comprise the assets
collateralizing CLOs. This commenter stated that the requirement for lead arrangers to
hold additional exposure to a borrower that is unhedged until maturity of the loan is
generally inconsistent with prudent lending practices and internal lending policies. Such
a requirement also, impacts the amount of other banking products that such lead arrangers
can extend to other borrowers.

509

the proposed risk retention requirements under the lead arranger option. According to
this commenter, adopting the lead arranger option, as proposed, would cause a severe
contraction in CLO-related activities by regulated institutions and a significant reduction
in liquidity to a critical sector of the U.S. economy. The Commission notes, however,
that this conclusion assumes that other lenders will not enter the market with sufficient
capital to compensate for the loss of bank capital in the event that large banks curtail their
involvement in the CLO sector. For example, other commenters asserted that if the risk
retention requirement caused a reduction in participation by open market CLOs in the
leveraged loan market, other institutions would enter the market to fill the unmet credit
needs. Ultimately, if this were to occur, the commenters asserted that non-CLO credit
providers likely would incur higher costs than the CLO credit providers that have
operated in the past, and these costs would be passed along to the ultimate borrowers,
raising their cost of funding.
Commenters’ second main area of concern was the practical ability and
willingness of originators to create and retain CLO-eligible tranches. One commenter
stated that the lead arranger option is not workable because the implementation
difficulties associated with creating CLO-eligible tranches are substantial and observed
that surveyed banks have indicated they would not be willing to take on this endeavor. In
particular, to qualify for the option, CLO-eligible tranches would be required to carry
separate voting rights, which the same commenter asserted would be administratively
unworkable and commercially unacceptable to the other parties to the loan transaction.
Commenters also expressed concern that it was unclear how a CLO would be able to
monitor whether the CLO-eligible loan tranche continues to meet the necessary criteria.

510

Commenters stated that the requirement that a lead arranger represent that the loans
continue to meet the rule’s criteria exposes the lead arranger to potential liability that the
lead arranger cannot realistically bear. While the Commission acknowledges these
concerns, the Commission also notes that, because CLOs are a major source of funding
for leveraged loan originators, there is significant economic incentive for arrangers to use
the lead arranger option to ensure the continued participation of CLO managers.
Other commenters argued that open-market CLOs should be exempted from the
risk retention requirements altogether because the organizational structure of open market
CLOs provides investors with sufficient safeguards. These commenters indicated that
open market CLOs operate independently of originators and are not part of, and do not
pose the same risks as, the originate-to-distribute model. They also asserted that CLO
managers’ interests are fully aligned with the interests of CLO investors because CLO
managers bear significant risk through their deferred, contingent compensation structure,
which they noted is based heavily on performance of the underlying assets. Commenters
also noted that most CLO managers are registered investment advisers, with associated
fiduciary duties to their clients. Commenters also noted that many CLO managers are
subject to existing regulations that provide meaningful protections against imprudent or
inferior underwriting, including the leveraged lending guidance released by the Federal
banking agencies in 2013. 450 Commenters further asserted that existing industry best

450

See Leveraged Lending Guidance. However, as discussed above in Part III.B.7 of the
Supplementary Information, the Federal banking agencies noted that there is evidence
that increased activity in the leveraged loan market has coincided with widespread
loosening of underwriting standards and that many banks have not fully implemented
standards set forth in the guidance, see Semiannual Risk Perspective: Spring 2014, Office
511

practices mitigate risks, and that CLO assets are actively managed and often include
select senior secured commercial loans with investor protection features. More generally,
commenters asserted that: (1) unlike many other securitizations, CLOs are securitizations
of liquid assets and are structurally transparent, (2) CLOs have historically performed
well even during the financial crisis, and (3) this strong performance is evidence that risk
retention is unnecessary.
Some commenters proposed a new option for “qualified CLOs” that would codify
many of the existing practices of open-market CLOs and require CLO managers to hold 5
percent of the equity tranche of at least 8 percent of the value of the CLO. As discussed
below, the Commission does not believe this option would provide sufficient incentive
alignment for open-market CLOs. Although some commenters stated their belief that
CLO managers select and manage CLO assets free from the potential conflicts and
misaligned incentives related to the originate-to-distribute model, the Commission notes
that, without a risk retention requirement, there is little economic incentive to discourage
practices associated with an originate-to-distribute model from developing.
The fourth category of comments reflected a general concern about the lead
arranger option and the impact of risk retention on the market for open market CLOs.

of the Comptroller of the Currency, at 5 (June 2014), available at
http://www.occ.gov/publications/publications-by-type/other-publicationsreports/semiannual-risk-perspective/semiannual-risk-perspective-spring-2014.pdf, Shared
National Credits Program: 2013 Review, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency (September 2013), available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/press/bcreg/bcreg20131010a1.pdf and “Fed
Scrutiny of Leveraged Loans Grows Along With Bubble Concern”, Bloomberg News,
October 1, 2014, available at http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2014-10-01/fed-scrutinyof-leveraged-loans-grows-along-with-bubble-concern.html..

512

One commenter expressed concern that designating one tranche of a syndicated facility
the CLO-eligible loan tranche would significantly affect the pricing of other tranches due
to the decreased liquidity of such tranches, as such tranches would not be available for
securitization in the CLO market. The same commenter noted that the universe of CLOeligible loan tranches would be very limited and restrict the CLO manager’s ability to
invest in a diverse number of loans. Further, several commenters asserted that the costs
of imposing risk retention on CLO managers exceeds the benefits and that the agencies
have not performed an adequate economic analysis in connection with the lead arranger
option.
One study by Oliver Wyman 451 claimed that as a result of the proposed
requirements, credit spreads will increase from 117 to 292 basis points and costs to
borrowers will increase between $2.5 billion and $3.8 billion per year because non-CLO
lenders will charge a higher interest rate to leveraged loan borrowers than CLOs. To
arrive at these estimates, the study assumed that CLO managers unaffiliated with a large
financial institution or market participant will no longer be able to provide capital to the
leveraged loan market and that credit would not be provided to borrowers through other
channels.
In reaching these conclusions, the study makes several assumptions that are
questionable. For instance, the study assumes that CLO managers cannot or will not be
able to hold 5 percent risk retention. However, the Commission believes that there may
be economically feasible means for CLO managers to meet the risk retention

451

http://www.sec.gov/comments/s7-14-11/s71411-535.pdf

513

requirements, particularly if there is economic incentive of the magnitude described in
the study (i.e., predicted spread increases ranging from 100 to 200 basis points). Another
assumption is that not enough lead arrangers will use the lead arranger option which will
mean there will not be enough CLO-eligible tranches for CLOs to be formed using the
lead arranger option. Given that CLOs currently account for a significant portion of the
leveraged loan market, there are significant economic incentives for loan arrangers to
create CLO-eligible tranches particularly because, by not doing so, originators may not
have enough demand for their issuances. Hence, lead arrangers may make CLO-eligible
tranches available, which would create enough diversification and supply for CLOs to
rely on the lead arranger option.
The study’s third assumption relies on an estimate of elasticity of supply of credit
in the leveraged loan market (i.e., the change in the availability of credit associated with a
given change in the loan interest rate). The study proxied for the elasticity of supply of
credit with an estimate of elasticity of demand for credit in the leveraged loan market
(i.e., the change in the borrowers’ demand for credit associated with a given change in the
loan interest rate) published in another (academic) study. 452 However, the commenter’s
study does not justify its assumption that the elasticity of supply should be equal to the
elasticity of demand. Indeed, the commenter’s study implicitly assumes that demand is
inelastic and would not change in response to the change in interest rate (i.e., that
borrowers would demand the same amount of credit regardless of the level of interest

452

Greg Nini, “Institutional Investors in Corporate Loans”, University of Pennsylvania
working paper, 2013, available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2349840.

514

rates). The commenter’s study also assumes that the credit supply curve would not shift
in response to the change in interest rate (i.e., as a result of entrance of new lenders). 453
Taken together, the Commission believes the assumptions in the commenter’s study
contribute to an estimate of the cost to the leveraged loan and the CLO industry that is
likely to be significantly inflated.
More generally, there are several considerations that could affect the extent of the
rule’s impact on the leveraged loan market, as described in the commenter’s study. One
consideration is that non-CLO investors might invest more capital given the right
incentives (higher yields or less risk). These investors include hedge funds, loan mutual
funds, and insurance companies. Another possibility is that these investors, instead of
purchasing leveraged loans on the secondary market, would join in as part of the
syndication. Finally, CLO managers with lower cost of funds and capability to satisfy the
risk retention requirements may replace some of the supply of credit lost due to exit from
the market of CLO managers with higher cost of funds. Any of these possibilities would
mitigate the loss of CLO capital as other investors invested more capital into the
leveraged loan market.
Although the Commission acknowledges commenters’ concerns about the lead
arranger option, the Commission does not believe there is an economic justification for
an exemption from the standard 5 percent risk retention requirement for CLOs. The
Commission believes that the amount of risk retention included in the alternative

453

The study asks the question “How much “extra” yield would be needed to induce
these non-CLO loan buyers to increase the amount of credit they are willing to supply?”
and proceeds to estimate “the increase in credit quantity that non-CLO leveraged loan
credit providers would have to supply to fully replace lost CLO capacity.”

515

approach suggested by commenters of a CLO option retaining 5 percent of the equity
tranche of at least 8 percent of the value of the CLO transaction (effectively amounting to
as low as 0.4 percent risk retention in the entire securitization) would not sufficiently
address the originate-to-distribute risks in the leveraged loan market. In particular, a
CLO market absent of meaningful risk retention may not have the protections against
future moral hazard problems that the final rule is designed to provide. The Commission
acknowledges that risk retention may generate significant upfront costs to the CLO and
the leveraged loan market relative to current practices or the proposed alternatives
provided by commenters. However, the Commission believes that these current practices
and the proposed alternatives would not do enough to align incentives between sponsors
and investors which, in the long term, could impose larger costs on the market than the
risk retention requirements of the final rule.
The Commission is also sensitive to the claim by commenters that the CLO
market performed well during the financial crisis in comparison to other asset classes
and, in particular, to RMBS. However, the Commission believes that this claim has the
benefit of hindsight, and that during the financial crisis, there were considerable concerns
with the ability of borrowers to meet their financial obligations through their
collateralized loans. 454 Ultimately, aggressive monetary policy resulted in sharp declines
in the interest rates payable on floating-rate leveraged loans, making it easier for

454

See, e.g., Ng, S., and K. Haywood, 2009, “Rates Low, Firms Race to Refinance Their
Debts,” The Wall Street Journal, June 26, 2009,
http://online.wsj.com/articles/SB124597520948957427. They observe: “Bankers and
borrowers alike worry that the overhang could create serious problems in the years ahead
if financial markets don't heal enough to allow hundreds of non-investment-grade
companies to refinance their debt.“

516

borrowers to meet their loan obligations. The Commission believes that it is this
extraordinary influence on borrowing costs, and not the underlying market practices of
CLO managers, which largely explains CLO performance during the financial crisis.
Hence, CLO performance during the financial crisis does not provide a sound basis for an
exemption from the rule’s requirements.
The Commission believes that commenters’ alternative suggestions do not create
sufficient incentive alignment, or “skin in the game,” for sponsors to ensure that
originators maintain high underwriting standards in accordance with the purposes of
Section 15G. While the Oliver Wyman study claims that risk retention will have a large
negative impact on the leverage loan market and the CLO industry, the Commission
believes that the assumptions underlying that assessment are questionable. In particular,
the study assumes that CLO managers, who currently hold 53 percent 455 of the leveraged
loans sold by originators, will no longer be able to purchase leveraged loans and that a
significant proportion would otherwise go unfunded. The Commission acknowledges
that this may increase cost to leveraged loans borrowers, but, for the reasons explained
above, the Commission believes these are likely to be at a much lower level than the
study suggests. Originators may sell leveraged loans to other purchasers, in which case,
as discussed below, smaller CLO managers may be affected but there would not be a
significant impact on the CLO market.

455

See Bloomberg Business Week, January 1, 2014, available at
http://www.businessweek.com/news/2014-01-31/leveraged-loan-trades-in-u-dot-s-dotrise-to-most-since-07-lsta-says.

517

Under current practices in the leveraged loan market, syndicates hold the
revolving piece of the origination, which is a line of credit that allows the borrower to
drawdown additional capital from the arranger. Hence, the revolving piece of a
leveraged loan represents a potential future liability to the lead arranger that could
ultimately increase the amount of risk retained. The agencies did not create an option for
treating this future liability as retained risk. In this way, the final rule may result in the
lead arranger holding more exposure to the borrower of the leveraged loan than what
would be required to satisfy the risk retention requirement. Therefore, allowing the lead
arranger to hold risk retention in place of the CLO manager should not diminish, and may
increase, the alignment of incentives between loan arrangers and ultimate investors in the
CLO, by providing strong incentives for the loan arranger to create loans with high
underwriting standards.
The impact of the lead arranger option on the leveraged loan market will be
determined by the likelihood that lead arrangers are willing to retain risk in the manner
required and CLO managers are willing to rely on this commitment. As commenters
stated, there are frictions in the market that may prevent CLO managers from purchasing
CLO-eligible loans or originators from creating CLO-eligible tranches. CLO managers
may not be able to ensure that the bank will meet the CLO-eligible tranche requirements
for the length of the loan. In addition, the special voting rights attached to the CLOeligible tranche may prevent other parties from wanting to create a CLO-eligible tranche.
Large commercial banks are the primary source for leveraged loan origination and
may be reluctant to retain ongoing exposure to leveraged loans because the loans are
typically longer term and riskier than the other assets banks usually hold on their balance

518

sheet. As such, they may not be willing to serve as a lead arranger for the purpose of
creating a CLO-eligible tranche. Should these banks choose to create CLO-eligible
tranches to facilitate additional demand for their originations, it is possible that they
would charge borrowers higher rates to compensate for the additional capital charge they
could incur under existing regulatory requirements, or because it would impede a
redeployment of capital for other projects.
CLO managers that use the lead arranger option will be relying on lead arranger
commitments to hold 5 percent of the CLO-eligible tranche for the duration of the loan.
A CLO manager relying on the lead arranger option would need to sell any tranches that
cease to be CLO-eligible tranches due to the failure of a loan arranger to hold the
required amount of risk, which could generate an otherwise unnecessary loss if the forced
sale provides a buyer with leverage to negotiate a discount. However, a CLO manager
should have some level of confidence in a lead arranger’s ongoing commitment to meet
the requirement because there will be recourse against the lead arranger for breach of
contract, as the lead arranger will warrant in the transaction documents to hold 5 percent
of the CLO-eligible tranche for the duration of the loan. Any costs the CLO manager
incurs from the forced sale of the loan could be part of their claim against the loan
arranger for breach of contract. Moreover, failure of a lead arranger to keep this
commitment could harm their reputation with respect to continued participation in the
leveraged loan market because potential CLO managers would be less willing to engage
in their transactions, leaving the lead arranger unable to sell or face higher costs in selling
CLO-eligible loan tranches or any other loans, in the future.

519

To accommodate potential demand for CLO-eligible tranches and the
concomitant costs of the ongoing credit exposure from the risk retention requirement,
lead arrangers may be willing to charge higher rates to borrowers and, as a result,
continue generating revenue from underwriting, warehousing, and selling leveraged
loans. There is strong incentive for loan arrangers to do so given that CLO purchases of
leveraged loans currently represent about half of the total investment in the leveraged
loan market. 456 The prospect of CLO managers declining to purchase non CLO-eligible
loan tranches should encourage lead arrangers to hold enough exposure to create CLOeligible tranches in order to meet current investor demand. Hence, the Commission
believes that CLO managers have significant influence over, and lead arrangers will have
increased incentive to facilitate, the use of the lead arranger option and the creation of
CLO-eligible tranches. Moreover, if non-CLO investors perceive loans with CLOeligible tranches as higher quality loans, this may create additional demand for CLOeligible tranches that would lead to higher prices and lower interest rates for such loans.
The Commission acknowledges the concerns about the workability of the option
expressed in the comment letters and, as described above, has considered the attendant
costs, but continues to believe that adopting the lead arranger option in the final rule will

456

See commentaries by Wells Capital Management, “Global Opportunities in Bank
Loans”, February 2014, available at
http://www.wellscap.com/docs/expert_commentary/global_bank_loans_0214.pdf and by
Loomis, Sayles & Company, L.P. Investment, “The Myth of Overcrowding in the Bank
Loan Market”, May 2014, available at
http://www.loomissayles.com/internet/internetdata.nsf/0/CA96B70BA0BE8BB585257C
D8004F1A03/$FILE/The-Myth-of-Overcrowding-in-the-Bank-Loan-Market.pdf for the
leveraged loan investor base breakdown. Statistics from both of these sources are based
on data from Standard & Poor’s Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary & Data.

520

provide CLOs with additional meaningful flexibility in satisfying the risk retention
requirements.
If the lead arranger option is not used, then CLO managers will have to satisfy the
risk retention requirement using one of the standard options. In this case, the
Commission recognizes that the final rule may have differing impacts on CLO managers,
which could have a negative effect on competition. The amount of capital available to
managers can vary with the size and affiliations of the manager. In particular, the
availability and cost of capital for managers with a relatively smaller amount of capital
available to finance required risk retention may be less favorable than for managers with
access to larger balance sheets or sources of capital. This could result in different
funding costs between smaller and larger managers and could impact competition by
creating an advantage for managers with lower funding costs, particularly larger financial
institutions and banks.
If smaller CLO managers do not have sufficient available capital to hold 5 percent
risk retention, then they will be unable to sponsor CLO transactions unless they are able
to get funding from another source. A reduction in CLO managers may reduce the
number of CLOs, which may lead to a decrease in capital formation, a decrease in price
efficiency for leveraged loans, and a decrease in competition for leveraged loans. If this
impairs the supply of capital to borrowers using leveraged loans, such borrowers could
expect to pay higher rates or have less access to financing. This potential impact on
capital formation is ameliorated to the extent that larger CLO managers – or other
potential investors – are able to replace smaller CLO managers as buyers of leveraged

521

loans. Such an outcome would benefit these other investors at the expense of smaller
CLO managers.
A number of commenters asserted that the final rule would force many smaller
CLO managers to exit the CLO market. Because the Commission did not have data with
respect to the cost of funds for each CLO manager or each CLO manager’s desired return
on capital, the Commission was unable to directly analyze the potential cost of the
additional capital necessary to satisfy the risk retention requirements or the relative
portion of the current CLO market managed by those smaller CLO managers that would
no longer sponsor CLOs as a result of the increased costs. In order to estimate the
potential impact of the exit of smaller CLO managers from the market, the Commission
identified and categorized 111 CLO managers known to have participated in the CLO
market between 2009 and 2013 using categorizations that serve as a proxy for the CLO
managers’ access to capital, whether internal or external, and thus their potential capital
capacity and ability to satisfy the risk retention requirements. 457 The first category
included CLO managers that are not subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the
Exchange Act and do not appear to be subsidiaries of or affiliated with other financial
institutions (banks, insurance companies, diversified asset managers that managed

457

CLO market issuance data and the list of CLO managers that were analyzed are from
the Asset-Backed Alert database. The Commission categorized CLO sponsors that issued
CLOs in the U.S. between January 1, 2009 and December 31, 2013. In order to estimate
the possible impact of the risk retention requirement we examine the fraction of the CLO
market that each group comprises. A sponsor’s category was determined by using the
2014 Fitch Ratings CLO Asset Manager Handbook, sponsors’ websites and other
publicly available information. If it was not immediately apparent which category best
described a manager, a conservative approach was taken and such manager was included
in the category of managers with limited access to capital.

522

investment vehicles other than CLOs, etc.), which the Commission believes is the set of
CLO managers that may face the greatest burden in obtaining capital to finance and retain
the 5 percent required risk retention. These CLO managers were responsible for 39
percent of the CLO market issuances between 2009 and 2013, 37 percent by dollar
volume, and represented 48 percent of all CLO managers analyzed.
The second category included CLO managers who fall into at least one of the
following categories (A) subject to the periodic reporting requirements of the Exchange
Act 458, or (B) also the sponsor of asset-backed securities other than CLOs, or (C) a bank
or insurance company, or (D) affiliated with, or otherwise related to an entity described in
(A), (B) or (C). These CLO managers were responsible for 61 percent of CLO issuances
between 2009 and 2013 by number or 63 percent of CLO issuance by dollar volume, and
represented 52 percent of the population of CLO managers analyzed. The Commission
believes that the second category of CLO managers, given their affiliations, diversified
business lines and demonstrated ability to raise capital in public capital markets, would
have greater access to capital, whether internal or external, and would face fewer
obstacles and lower funding costs to obtain the capital necessary to satisfy the risk
retention requirements.
If the risk retention requirements cause certain CLO managers to exit the
leveraged loan market, there could be a commensurate decrease in the supply of capital
unless other investors compensate for their exit. From the above analysis, the
Commission believes it would be reasonable to estimate that the exit of the first category

458

The second category of CLO managers would also include those CLO managers that
maintain a listing of a class of securities on an exchange in a non-U.S. jurisdiction.

523

of CLO managers from the CLO market could impact current levels of capital formation
by CLOs by 37 percent, which is considerably less than Oliver Wyman lower bound
estimate of 60 percent. 459 The Commission believes that a significantly greater impact
would be unlikely without an exit from the market of entities with potentially easier
access to capital.
The potential impact of the loss of certain CLO managers will depend on whether
the CLO investors would continue to supply credit to the leveraged loan market through
alternative channels. If some senior CLO tranches become unavailable, then, because of
their sensitivity to credit risk, banks and other investors whose investment guidelines
require purchasing of very high quality loans (e.g., triple-A rated) and who buy senior
CLO tranches may be less likely to provide direct investment into leveraged loan market,
which offers higher risk (e.g., single-B rated) investments on average. In contrast, CLO
investors who seek higher returns and tend to be less sensitive to credit risk may decide to
participate directly in the leveraged loan market or use other intermediaries to do so
because they have an appetite for that level of credit risk. Both categories of investors
may channel their investments into one of multiple existing participants in the leveraged
loan market. Mutual funds, private equity funds, private equity mezzanine loan funds
and credit funds (entities that are generally formed as partnerships with third-party capital
and invest in loans or make loans or otherwise extend the type of credit that banks are
authorized to undertake on their own balance sheet) currently invest directly in the

459

The Oliver Wyman estimate is based on a sample of the top 30 CLO managers and
the assumption that managers that could feasibly hold the 5 percent risk retention make
up 25 percent of the CLO assets under management.

524

leveraged loan market and may increase their direct purchase of leveraged loans if
smaller CLO managers exit the market. Thus, there are multiple existing sources of
capital that could compensate for any potential exit of some CLO managers.
Based on estimates of the CLO investor base in the Oliver Wyman study (Exhibit
4 of the study), approximately 20 percent of CLO tranches are rated “BBB” or lower and
are held by asset managers and other investors such as hedge funds, pension funds, and
structured credit funds. If certain CLO deals were no longer available, assuming that
these investors in lower rated tranches would be able to find an alternative channel to
invest in the leveraged loan market and the remaining 80 percent (the risk-sensitive
investors that purchase higher quality tranches) would not, then the overall estimated
impact of a 37 percent decline in the supply of credit from the potential exit of certain
CLO managers would account for an approximately 14.8 percent reduction in supply of
capital to the leveraged loan market. 460 This assumes CLO sponsors comprise
approximately 50 percent of the leveraged loan market 461, and that any resulting increase
in the underlying loan rates would not encourage the emergence of other capital sources.
Because risk-sensitive CLO investors have other relatively low risk means of investing in
the leveraged loan market (e.g., mutual funds that concentrate on leveraged loans), the
Commission believes that the actual impact may be lower.

460

14.8 percent is the product of the CLO market share of the leveraged loan market, 50
percent, the CLO managers market share of those CLO managers that the Commission
believe it would be reasonable to assume could exit the CLO market, 37 percent, and the
fraction of risk-sensitive investors in such CLOs that would not invest through other
means, 80 percent (the percentage of risk-sensitive investors assumed by the Oliver
Wyman study).
461

See footnote 456 for references.
525

vii.

Qualified Tender Option Bonds

The final rule includes two options for tender option bonds (TOBs). Both options
require 100 percent liquidity protection and provide for a mechanism by which the
sponsors’ incentives are aligned with the investors. In the first option, the sponsor
maintains horizontal risk retention unless there is a tender option termination event
(TOTE), in which case the sponsor’s interest converts to vertical risk retention. After a
TOTE, the sponsors will receive a distribution pari passu with tender option bond
holders. In a termination that is triggered by an event that is not a TOTE the sponsor will
continue to hold horizontal risk retention and will receive the remaining balance after the
distribution is paid to the bond holders. The second option, which is very similar to a
representative sample option, allows the sponsor to sell the entire TOB but requires the
sponsor to hold municipal securities from the same issuance with a face value of 5
percent of the deposited municipal security.
Commenters suggested providing a full exemption for TOBs, not counting TOBs
as a securitization, or allowing third-party risk retention. Commenters also requested an
exemption or recognition of unfunded risk retention in the form of liquidity support. They
also commented on the cost to the TOB market, however, no commenter provided data to
allow us to calculate potential costs from requiring risk retention to the TOB market.
Requiring TOBs to hold risk retention imposes a cost on sponsors who were not currently
retaining exposure to credit risk in a form permissible under the final rule.
After considering comments, the agencies have decided to adopt the reproposal
options with some changes to further accommodate market practices. The agencies were
not persuaded to create a structural exemption for TOBs, as commenters requested, as

526

this would exempt future TOB structures, with unknown incentive alignment, from risk
retention. Under the final rule, the agencies are accommodating the bulk of those
structures currently issuing in the market.
By accommodating current market practice, these options help reduce the cost of
retaining risk but still effectively align the incentives between sponsors and investors.
The first option, by accommodating TOB tax requirements, allows TOBs to hold
horizontal risk retention. In the absence of this accommodation, any TOB that tried to
retain risk using the standard horizontal form would be in violation of the IRS tax code,
invalidating the tax exemption of the TOB structure. By allowing TOB sponsors to hold
horizontal risk retention while maintaining their tax exemption the first option provides
additional flexibility for TOB sponsors to retain risk in a manner that better suits their
specific needs, thereby reducing compliance costs. At the same time, investor- sponsor
incentive alignment is maintained because sponsors have horizontal risk retention for the
duration of the TOB unless a TOTE occurs at which time the TOB is terminated and the
sponsor shares any losses with the investors in a pro-rata manner.
The agencies believe that the second option described above is appropriate in this
specific context (as opposed to other ABS markets where the agencies do not adopt a
representative sample option) because most TOBs are made up of one municipal bond,
which is the same bond held by the sponsor. Thus, there are no characteristics of
underlying assets that might make the representative sample different from the
underlying assets, thereby skewing incentives between the sponsor and investor different.
Consequently, the second option does not pose the same complexities and costs that make
the representative sample option not feasible in other contexts. As with the first option,

527

permitting this additional flexibility will help to reduce costs for TOB sponsors without
jeopardizing investors’ interests. In addition, the alignment of incentives may encourage
investors to invest in the TOB market, which may increase capital formation. If there are
more investors, liquidity will also increase, which may lead to increased price efficiency
and reduce the cost of capital within the TOB market.
As mentioned above, existing TOB transactions typically have a 100 percent
liquidity guarantee, which the sponsor (or an affiliate) may be providing. Thus requiring
the sponsor to retain 5 percent of the risk despite this liquidity guarantee will impose
additional costs but helps to ensure that the sponsor is selecting high-quality municipal
bonds and not selling off their risk to a third party. The Commission also acknowledges
that because these options are based on current TOB structures it may be too costly for
new structures to be created. This may impact competition by creating a barrier to entry
for future novel types of TOB structures.
viii.

Alternatives

In developing the forms of permissible risk retention to be included the final rule,
the agencies considered a number of alternative approaches. Some of the alternatives
were suggested by commenters and considered by the agencies following the previous
rule proposals.
In response to the reproposal, for instance, several commenters requested that the
final rule recognize other forms of, or substitutes for, risk retention such as: third party
credit support, including insurance policies, guarantees, liquidity facilities, and standby
letters of credit; 5 percent participation interest in each securitized asset; representations
and warranties; “contractual” risk retention; private mortgage insurance;

528

overcollateralization; subordination; and conditional cash flows. One commenter
requested that the final rule, at a minimum, should permit such forms of unfunded risk
retention for a sub-set of sponsors, such as regulated banks. Another commenter asserted
that the final rule should provide more flexibility by allowing sponsors to satisfy their
risk retention requirement through a combination of various means and that the rule
should not mandate forms of risk retention for specific types of asset classes or specific
types of transactions.
The agencies have generally declined to recognize unfunded forms of risk
retention for the purposes of the final rule, except in the case of the Enterprises under the
conditions specified for their guarantees. The Commission acknowledges that
recognizing unfunded forms of risk retention could help to reduce the costs of
compliance, since many of these features are currently used, to varying degrees, in the
securitization market. However, because these forms of credit support generally are not
funded at closing, they may not be available to absorb credit losses at the time such losses
occur. Therefore, the Commission believes that unfunded forms of risk retention fail to
provide sufficient alignment of incentives between sponsors and investors and could
impose unwarranted costs on investors if recognized as an eligible form of risk retention.
Further, the agencies received several comments requesting that the final rule
include a representative sample or participation interest option. 462 The agencies
considered allowing for loan participations as a means of satisfying the risk retention
requirements. The agencies were concerned that offering loan participations as a

462

See Section 5.b.ii of this Economic Analysis for a discussion of comments on a
representative sample option.

529

standard option would introduce substantial additional complexity to the rule in order to
ensure that these forms of retention were implemented in a way that ensured that the
holder had the same economic exposure as the holder of an ABS interest. In addition, the
agencies were concerned that permitting these types of interests to be held as risk
retention could raise concerns about regulatory capital arbitrage. Accordingly, the
agencies decided not to add a loan participation option to the menu of risk retention
options. Since, according to one commenter, the option currently is not widely used by
the market, the Commission believes that there may be little economic benefit to allowing
this option.
c. Allocation to the Originator
The final rule permits the originator to share the risk retained by the sponsor.
Specifically, the rule permits a sponsor to reduce its required risk retention obligations in
a securitization transaction by the portion of risk retention obligations assumed by one or
more of the originators of the securitized assets as long as the originator originates at
least 20 percent of the securitized assets in the underlying asset pool. The originator is
required to hold its allocated share of the risk retention obligation 463 in the same manner
as would have been required of the sponsor, and subject to the same restrictions on
transferring, hedging, or financing the retained interest.
Comments on the allocation-to-originator proposal focused on the 20 percent
threshold for allocation and the requirement that an originator to which risk retention was

463

The amount of the retention interest held by each originator that is allocated credit
risk in accordance with the final rule is required to be at least 20 percent, but not in
excess of the percentage of the securitized assets it originated.

530

allocated share pro rata in all of the losses allocated to the type of interest (i.e., horizontal
or vertical) it holds rather than only the losses on assets that it originated. Some of the
commenters asserted that the 20 percent minimum should be eliminated and that it would
hurt small originators while another commenter supported the limit and asserted that it
protected small originators. With respect to the required pro rata sharing by the
originator, commenters stated that because securitization tranches are developed so that
tranche holders share pari passu in losses, it would cause unnecessary complexity to limit
an originator’s interests to the loans that it had originated. The agencies concluded that
the changes to the reproposal suggested by the commenters are not necessary or
appropriate. Therefore, the agencies are adopting the option largely as reproposed with
minor changes.
This option benefits sponsors by allowing them to reduce their costs of retaining
risk by sharing the costs with willing originators. This is also a benefit to investors as
incentives are aligned at the level closer to loan origination, which could increase
investor confidence and improve capital formation. As commenters noted, the allocation
to originator option may create barriers to entry for smaller originators who will not be
able to afford to share in retaining risk and therefore find their portfolios less liquid or
more costly for sponsors to purchase. This would negatively affect competition within the
securitization market. However, as noted above, the 20 percent threshold serves to make
the allocation option available only for entities whose assets form a significant portion of
a pool and who, thus, ordinarily could be expected to have some bargaining power with a
sponsor. This will prevent sponsors from forcing the allocation to originator on smaller
originators as a condition of buying the loans they originate that can increase cost of

531

capital for such small originators or force such originators from the market thereby
reducing competition. In addition, allowing smaller originators to retain a smaller fraction
of credit risk of the pool could dilute the incentives generated by the risk retention
requirement to monitor the credit quality of the loans in the pool, thereby undermining
the intended benefits of the rule. A benefit of the adopted approach is that larger
originators will be are able to help smaller sponsors that may have a harder time retaining
risk and otherwise would not participate in the asset-backed securities market. Providing
more sponsors with feasible options in meeting the requirements may increase capital
formation and allocative efficiency.
d. Hedging, Transfer and Financing Restrictions
Under the final rule, a sponsor and its consolidated affiliates generally would be
prohibited from hedging or transferring the risk they are required to retain, except for
currency and interest rate hedges and some index hedging. Additionally, the sponsor and
its consolidated affiliates would be prohibited from financing the retained interest on a
non-recourse basis.
While some commenters supported the proposed restrictions on hedging, others
criticized the provisions as being overly restrictive, and certain commenters requested
clarification as to the scope of the proposed restrictions. According to some commenters,
the proposed restrictions were overly broad, raising questions about what constitutes
permissible and impermissible hedges.
The agencies are adopting hedging, transfer and financing restrictions as
reproposed. Without the hedging and transfer restrictions, sponsors could hedge/transfer
their (credit) risk exposure to the retained interests, thereby eliminating the “skin in the

532

game” intent of the rule. Thus, the restriction benefits investors by preventing actions
that could undermine the purpose of the final rule. More narrowly tailored restrictions
could impose costs on investors by inadvertently excluding transactions that have the
effect of hedging or transferring credit risk. On the other hand, the broad nature of the
adopted restrictions could create uncertainty about which transactions are covered by the
prohibition. This uncertainty may induce strategic responses that are designed to evade
the rule. For example, derivative or cash instrument positions can be used to hedge risk,
but it may be difficult to determine whether such a hedge is designed to evade the rule.
Costs related to the hedging and transfer restrictions include direct administrative
costs and compliance monitoring costs. The hedging, transfer, and financing restrictions
cover sponsors and their affiliates, and, thus, to assure compliance a sponsor must track
both its own portfolio and the portfolios of all its affiliates to verify that no prohibited
transactions are included in the aggregate portfolio. Such tracking may present additional
challenges for large financial organizations with many affiliates. However, because the
hedging and transfer prohibitions cover only hedging against the risks of the specific pool
or securities based on the specific pool, the ultimate cost of monitoring compliance
should be minimal even for large organizations.
6. General Exemptions
In certain cases the agencies have determined to exempt asset classes from the
risk retention requirements altogether or adopt reduced risk retention requirements. As
discussed below, the Commission believes these exemptions are warranted because there
is either sufficient incentive alignment already in place or other features to make further
constraints unnecessary to address moral hazard concerns. In particular, the

533

securitizations of these exempted asset classes have characteristics that help to ensure that
the quality of the assets is high. For example, if the pool of assets are drawn from an
asset class with a low probability of default, opportunities to exploit potentially
misaligned incentives are fewer and investors may have a correspondingly lesser need for
the protection accorded by risk retention requirements. Below the Commission describes
the particular costs and benefits relevant to each of the asset classes that the agencies are
exempting from risk retention.
a. Federally Insured or Guaranteed Residential, Multifamily, and Health Care
Mortgage Loan Assets
Consistent with Section 15G, the agencies are adopting an exemption from the
risk retention requirements for any securitization transaction that is collateralized solely
by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan assets if the assets are
insured or guaranteed in whole or in part as to the payment of principal and interest by
the United States or an agency of the United States. The agencies are also adopting an
exemption from the risk retention requirements for any securitization transaction that
involves the issuance of ABS if the ABS are insured or guaranteed as to the payment of
principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States and that are
collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan
assets, or interests in such assets.
Several commenters expressed support for the exemption for securitization
transactions collateralized solely by assets (or that involve the issuance of ABS) that are
insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or
its agencies. One commenter urged the agencies to extend the government-backed

534

exemptions to ABS backed by foreign governments. Another commenter requested that
the agencies clarify that GSE securitizations of multifamily loans are exempt from the
risk retention requirements.
Risk retention is not currently mandated or practiced for these securitizations and,
thus, this exemption will maintain consistency with current market practice. Because
these securitizations are guaranteed by the United States or its agencies, and there is no
default risk beyond what is otherwise priced in a U. S. Treasury security, there is no
benefit to investors from sponsors retaining risk and it would otherwise create costs to
sponsors where they are not necessary. However, the exemption will provide continued
incentives to sponsors to use federally insured or guaranteed assets, which increases the
value of the securities sold. This could have an adverse impact on the capital-raising
ability of sponsors offering securitizations in the same asset classes where the underlying
assets are not federally insured or guaranteed, requiring these sponsors to compete for
investor capital by offering higher yields and thereby selling asset backed securities
interests at lower prices. As a result, there may be less demand from sponsors and
investors to securitize these (non-federally insured or guaranteed) assets under private
labels, which would impede the capital formation process in public markets for
originators in the same asset classes that do not qualify under these programs. This
could, in turn, increase borrowing costs for underlying borrowers in these assets classes.
There would be potentially significant effects, however, from not granting this
exemption. In particular, these programs provide subsidized access to credit for
consumers who may not otherwise qualify for loans underwritten by private issuers, and
thereby promote social benefits in the public interest. For example, FHA-insured

535

mortgages enable many home buyers, particularly those with impaired credit or who are
first time buyers, to purchase a home with a low down payment that may not otherwise
be possible because they would not qualify for a privately underwritten mortgage. 464 The
economic footprint of this program is large. At the end of 2013, the FHA had 7.8 million
active loans with insurance in force, 465 and during that year (2013), insured 1.3 million
new mortgages with the total loan value of $240 billion,466 larger than all other federally
insured loan programs combined. 467 In total, the FHA provided mortgage insurance to
more than 15 percent of households that purchased houses in 2012. 468

464

The Federal Reserve Board Report to the Congress on Risk Retention, October 2010,
available at
http://www.federalreserve.gov/boarddocs/rptcongress/securitization/riskretention.html.

465

FHA Single Family Loan Performance Trends, January 2014, Table 3, available at
http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/hsgrroom/loanperfor
mance.
466

Quarterly Report to Congress on FHA Single-Family Mutual Mortgage Insurance
Fund Programs, 2014, Quarter 1, Exhibits A-1 and A-2 available at
http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/rmra/oe/rpts/rtc/fhart
cqtrly.
467

Other federal mortgage loan guarantee programs include programs run by the
Department of Veterans Affairs, the Farm Service Agency (FSA), the Rural Housing
Service (RHS), and the Department of Housing and Urban Development's Office of
Public and Indian Housing (PIH). Among them, for example, U.S. Department of
Veterans Affairs guaranteed 630,000 loans in 2013 and Rural Housing Service
guaranteed 163,000 loans in 2013, see 2013 VBA Performance and Accountability
Report available at http://www.benefits.va.gov/reports/annual_performance_reports.asp
and USDA Rural Development Housing Obligations Fiscal Year 2013 Year-End Report
available at
http://ruralhome.org/storage/documents/rd_obligations/fy2013/yearend/usdard-fy13-yeobligations-combined.pdf.
468

See FHA Share of Home Purchase Activity, June 2012, available at
http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/rmra/oe/rpts/fhamkts
h/fhamkt.

536

The exemption from the risk retention requirements for securitizations of
federally insured or guaranteed loans will not provide for the incentive alignment that
sponsors would otherwise have with investors in the securitization if they had an
economic exposure to the performance of the securitization. We note, however, that
under one large federally guaranteed program, the program run by the U.S. Department
of Veterans Affairs (VA), the lender has some stake in how the borrower performs unless
the lender sells the loan. The VA provides insurance in the form of a first-loss
guarantee, 469 but VA lenders have residual risk after the VA’s first-loss obligation is
exhausted. We also note that mortgage loans guaranteed by both FHA and VA programs
performed better than mortgage loans securitized through private-label RMBS. For
instance, both VA-guaranteed and FHA-insured mortgages originated in 2006, at the
peak of the housing boom, had a significantly lower serious delinquency rate (15 percent
for VA-guaranteed loans, 470 and between 18 percent 471 and 31 percent 472 by different
estimates for FHA-insured loans) than mortgages securitized through private-label
RMBS transactions (58 percent). 473 Although risk retention requirements were not
historically practiced in private label securitizations, and delinquency rates of

469

25 percent of the loan amount with a minimum guarantee of $36,000.

470

See Table 1 in Urban Institute Commentary, July 2014, “VA Loans Outperform FHA
Loans. Why? And What Can We Learn?” available at
http://www.urban.org/UploadedPDF/413182-VA-Loans-Outperform-FHA-Loans.pdf.
471

See the FHA Loan Performance Trends report available at
http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/hsgrroom/loanperfor
mance.
472

See footnote 471.

473

The serious delinquency rate for mortgages securitized through private-label RMBS
is calculated by DERA staff based on MBSData dataset.

537

securitizations with risk retention during the mortgage crisis period are therefore not
available, the disparity in performance between VA- and FHA-insured loans and other
loans purchased for private label securitizations suggests that the combination of
underwriting practices, mortgage insurance premiums, and lenders’ residual risk
exposure, has a material impact on the mitigation of the moral hazard problem in the
securitization process.
While the historical loan performance data indicate that FHA-insured mortgages
performed better than other mortgages purchased by private label securitizations, one
commenter was concerned that, with the exemption, the increase in the FHA’s share of
the market will be difficult to shrink to a more rational proportion of the mortgage
market. While the current 15 percent market share is considerably greater than 4 to 6
percent market shares during the 2004 to 2007 period, it is consistent with the historical
market shares of between 12 and 14 percent during the 1993 to 2002 period, and below
the 19 percent market share recorded in 2009 and 2010. 474 Hence, the current FHA
market share does not seem out of proportion relative to certain previous periods.
Instead, the trend shows a strong counter cyclical relation with the health of the private
market, consistent with the benefits of a federally insured program for home mortgage
that provides access to capital when private markets are unable to do so.
b. Securitizations of Assets Issued, Insured or Guaranteed by the United States
or any Agency of the United States

474

See FHA Share of Home Purchase Activity, June 2012, available at
http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/program_offices/housing/rmra/oe/rpts/fhamkts
h/fhamkt.

538

Consistent with Section 15G, the final rule contains exemptions from risk
retention for any securitization transaction if the ABS issued in the transaction were
(1) collateralized solely (excluding servicing assets) by obligations issued by the United
States or an agency of the United States; (2) collateralized solely (excluding servicing
assets) by assets that are fully insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and
interest by the United States or an agency of the United States (other than residential,
multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan securitizations discussed above); or (3)
fully guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the United States or
any agency of the United States. Also consistent with Section 15G, the final rule
contains an exemption from risk retention for ABS issued or guaranteed by any state of
the United States (including a political subdivision or public instrumentality of a state).
One commenter requested that the final rule retain the full exemption for
securities issued by a state (including a political subdivision or public instrumentality of a
state), and for securities that meet the definition of a qualified scholarship funding bond.
This commenter requested that the exemption for state-issued securities and qualified
scholarship funding bonds be extended to both securities issued on a federally taxable
basis and securities issued on a federal tax-exempt basis. Another commenter urged that
the agencies clarify that all securities issued by housing finance agencies and other state
government agencies and backed by loans financed by housing finance agencies are
exempted.
Risk retention is not currently mandated or practiced for these asset classes and
thus, this exemption maintains consistency with current market practice. Because
investors will be sufficiently protected from loss by the government guarantee that

539

applies to these securities, there is no benefit to investors from sponsors retaining risk,
and it would otherwise create costs to sponsors where they are not necessary. However,
as with the exemption for federally insured mortgages, this exemption will incentivize
sponsors to use federally insured or guaranteed assets, which will have an impact on
competition with other assets that are not federally insured or guaranteed.
c. Certain Student Loan Securitizations
The final rule provides a separate exemption for securitization transactions that
are collateralized by student loans that were made under the Federal Family Education
Loan Program (FFELP). Under the final rule, a securitization transaction that is
collateralized solely by FFELP loans that are guaranteed as to 100 percent of defaulted
principal and accrued interest will be exempt from the risk retention requirements. A
securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by FFELP loans that are guaranteed
as to at least 98 percent of defaulted principal and accrued interest will have the sponsor’s
risk retention requirement reduced to 2 percent. All other securitizations collateralized
solely by FFELP loans will have the sponsor’s risk retention requirement reduced to 3
percent. Because loans underlying FFELP student loan securitizations are federally
guaranteed from 97 percent to 100 percent depending on the date of origination, and there
is little to no default risk beyond what is otherwise priced in a U. S. Treasury security,
there is no benefit to investors from sponsors retaining risk and it would otherwise create
costs to sponsors where they are not necessary.
Several commenters suggested different ways to expand the scope of the
exemption or add new categories of student loans to the exemption. Other commenters
recommended that the agencies accept alternative forms of risk retention for FFELP loan

540

securitizations. The suggested alternative forms of risk retention include a simplified
representative sample method, an exemption for on-balance sheet transactions where the
structure clearly demonstrates at least 5 percent risk retention, initial equity contribution,
overcollateralization, and other unfunded forms of risk retention.
The agencies believe that expansion of the definitions of exempted assets would
undercut the purpose of risk retention of aligning incentives of sponsors and investors
because other student loans would not be guaranteed by the U.S. government and, thus,
would be subject to the same moral hazard problem described above. The agencies have
also generally declined to recognize unfunded forms of risk retention for the purposes of
the risk retention rule and continue to believe that unfunded forms of risk retention fail to
provide sufficient alignment of incentives between sponsors and investors.
The economic impact of this exemption will likely be minimal because FFELP
was eliminated in 2010 and student loans were no longer issued under the program after
June 2010. 475
d. Resecuritizations
The proposed rule would have provided two exemptions for certain
resecuritizations where duplicative risk retention requirements would not appear to
provide any added benefit. The first of these exemptions would have applied to passthrough resecuritizations that met certain specified conditions. The second one would
have applied only to resecuritizations of certain first pay classes of mortgage backed
securities. Under the reproposal, sponsors of resecuritizations that were not structured to

475

Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, Pub. L. 111-152, §2201, 124
Stat. 1029, 1074.

541

meet the terms of one of these two exemptions would have been required to meet the
credit risk retention requirements with respect to the resecuritization transaction unless
another exemption was available.
The agencies received a number of comments on the proposed resecuritization
exemptions. The comments did not raise specific objections or concerns with either of
the two proposed exemptions, but generally urged the agencies to expand the exemptions
to other types of structures, including those that re-tranche credit risk. Commenters noted
that applying risk retention to resecuritizations of asset-backed securities that are already
in the market, especially where the underlying interests are asset-backed securities
compliant with the risk retention requirement, cannot alter the incentives for the original
ABS sponsor to ensure high-quality assets. Other commenters stated that the lack of a
broad resecuritization exemption would negatively affect markets by making it harder for
investors to re-structure and sell existing ABS. A number of commenters stated that the
agencies should provide an exemption for resecuritizations of ABS that were issued prior
to the effective date of the rule. Still others expressed the view that the agencies could
develop an exemption that would allow credit tranching in resecuritized ABS while
limiting the scope of such exemption, such as by excluding actively managed pools, to
address the agencies’ concerns with CDOs and similar structures.
The agencies are adopting these exemptions as reproposed. For transactions that
meet the exemptions’ requirements, the resecuritization process would neither increase
nor reallocate the credit risk of the underlying asset-backed securities because, by
definition, there is no tranching of the credit risk in a pass through security. Hence, the
resecuritization does not alter the incentive alignment present in the original

542

securitizations that are already compliant with the risk retention requirement. Under the
final rule, sponsors of resecuritizations that do not have one of the structures described
above would not be exempted from risk retention. These resecuritization transactions retranche the credit risk of the underlying asset-backed securities, and are subject to the
same moral hazard problem that exists in the underlying securitizations, because
sponsors’ discretion in the choice of underlying securitizations allows for the reallocation
of credit risk. Hence, these resecuritizations will be subject to risk retention requirements
to the same extent as the underlying asset-backed securities (unless the underlying
securities qualify for an exemption). Thus, not exempting these resecuritizations is
consistent with the purposes of the rule and lessens the likelihood of unwarranted costs
on investors.
Because the exemption would allow the creation of securities that may be used to
aggregate asset-backed securities backed by small asset pools, the exemption for these
types of resecuritization could improve access to credit at reasonable terms to consumers
and businesses by allowing for the creation of an additional investment vehicle for such
asset pools. This, in turn, would lead to increased liquidity of such pools and attendant
decrease in cost of capital for some borrowers. However, the final rule may also have an
adverse impact on capital formation and efficiency if they make certain resecuritization
transactions costlier or infeasible to conduct because of two layers of credit risk retention.
e. Other Exemptions and Alternatives
The reproposal also included exemptions for utility legislative securitizations,
seasoned loans, and securitization transactions that are sponsored by the FDIC acting as
conservator or receiver.

543

The agencies received no comments on the utility legislative securitization
exemption, and are adopting the exemption as reproposed. The agencies continue to
believe the implicit state guarantee in place for these securitizations addresses the moral
hazard problem discussed above and adding the cost of risk retention would create costs
to sponsors where they are not necessary as the incentive alignment problem is already
being addressed.
The agencies received a number of comments on the seasoned loan exemption.
Commenters generally favored expanding the seasoned loan exemption, although they
differed in how to expand the exemption. Because seasoned loans have had a sufficient
period of time to prove their performance, adding the cost of risk retention would create
costs to sponsors where they are not necessary as any risk associated with the underlying
assets’ moral hazard problem will have manifested itself.
Risk retention is not currently mandated or practiced for these asset classes, and
thus, permitting these exemptions will maintain consistency with current market practice.
As discussed above, because these assets classes have unique features that sufficiently
protect investors from loss, there is no benefit to investors from sponsors retaining risk,
and it would create costs to sponsors where they are not necessary. However, providing
these exemptions will incentivize the creation of utility legislative securitizations and
securitizations with seasoned loans, thus potentially lowering the cost of capital
formation for these loans.
In the reproposal, the agencies provided an exemption from risk retention for
securitization transactions that are sponsored by the FDIC, acting as conservator or
receiver. One commenter expressly supported this exemption, noting, among other

544

things, that it would help the FDIC maximize the value of assets in conservatorship and
receivership. The agencies are adopting the FDIC securitization exemption as
reproposed. There is no benefit to investors from FDIC retaining risk on its
securitizations because its actions are guided by sound underwriting practices and the
quality of the assets is carefully monitored in accordance with the relevant statutory
authority, and absence of exemption would otherwise create costs to FDIC where they are
not necessary.
In response to the reproposal, commenters also asked for exemptions for other
specific asset classes such as: corporate debt repackagings, legacy loan securitizations,
securitizations of unsecured direct obligations of the sponsor, and servicer advance
receivables. These asset classes have either unfunded risk retention or include loans
created before the new underwriting qualifications were in place and they do not have
features that mitigate the moral hazard problem. Thus, providing an exemption would
impose an unwarranted cost on investors.
f. Safe Harbor for Certain Foreign-Related Securitizations
The final rule includes a safe harbor provision for certain, predominantly foreign,
transactions based on the limited nature of the transactions’ connections with the United
States and U.S. investors. Specifically, the safe harbor excludes from the risk retention
requirements transactions in which, among other limitations, no more than 10 percent of
the value of the ABS interests are sold to U.S. persons and no more than 25 percent of the
assets collateralizing the ABS assets are acquired from U.S. persons. The safe harbor is
intended to exclude from the risk retention requirements transactions in which the effects
on U.S. interests are sufficiently remote so as not to significantly impact underwriting

545

standards and risk management practices in the United States or the interests of U.S.
investors.
Commenters on the proposal generally supported the existence of a safe harbor
for certain foreign securitizations. A few commenters suggested increasing the 10
percent limit on the value of ABS interests permitted to be sold to or for the account of
U.S. persons. These commenters also requested that the agencies clarify that the 10
percent limit applies only at the time of initial issuance and does not include secondary
market transfers. Commenters also proposed to exclude from the 10 percent limitation
(A) securitization transactions with a sponsor or issuing entity that is a U.S. person in
which no offers are made to U.S. persons and (B) asset-backed securities issuances that
comply with Regulation S under the Securities Act.
Several commenters requested that the rule provide for coordination of the rule’s
risk retention requirement with foreign risk retention requirements, including by
permitting a foreign sponsor to comply with home country or other applicable foreign
risk retention rules. In this regard, some commenters stated that the U.S. risk retention
rules may be incompatible with foreign risk retention requirements, such as the European
Union risk retention requirements and, accordingly, that sponsors required to comply
with both U.S. and foreign risk retention regulations could be subject to conflicting rules.
As noted in the reproposal the costs of the foreign transaction safe harbor should
be small. There will be negligible effect of the safe harbor on efficiency, competition and
capital formation in the United States (compared to the universal application of the risk
retention rule) because the affected ABS are predominantly foreign with limited
connection to U.S. markets. As noted above, the foreign transaction safe harbor is

546

narrowly tailored to capture only those transactions in which the effects on U.S. interests
are sufficiently remote so as not to significantly impact U.S. underwriting standards and
risk management practices or the interests of U.S. investors. The agencies asked for
comment on whether or not the 10 percent proceeds trigger should be different.
Commenters suggested the proceeds trigger be raised to 20 percent or 40 percent. The
agencies are adopting the foreign safe harbor provision as reproposed. The relatively
narrow scope of the foreign safe harbor provision may have negative effect on foreign
sponsors that seek U.S. investors because they may need to satisfy risk retention
requirements of two jurisdictions (their home country and the United States). In addition,
the rule may reduce competition and investment opportunities for U.S. investors because
foreign securitizers may exclude U.S. persons from their transactions to avoid triggering
the risk retention requirements. These costs may be mitigated by the fact that the final
rule provides flexibility for sponsors with respect to the forms of eligible risk retention,
which may permit foreign sponsors seeking a material U.S. investor base to retain risk in
a format that satisfies both home country and U.S. regulatory requirements, without
jeopardizing protection to the U.S. investors in the form of risk retention. Moreover,
raising the trigger could provide sponsors relying on the safe harbor with a competitive
advantage of not needing to hold risk retention. The larger the amount of the
securitization foreign sponsors are allowed to sell to U.S. persons without triggering risk
retention, the more competition domestic securitization deals will have to face.
7. Reduced Risk Retention Requirements for ABS Backed by Qualifying Assets
As contemplated by Section 15G, the agencies are adopting exemptions for
securitizations consisting solely of automobile loans, commercial real estate loans,

547

commercial loans, and residential mortgage loans that satisfy certain specific
underwriting standards that indicate a low credit risk with respect to the loan. 476
The benefit to exempting qualifying assets from risk retention is that it will avoid
tying up sponsors’ capital in transactions in which the underlying assets are subject to
underwriting standards that indicate a low credit risk and thus a diminished need for risk
retention to address the moral hazard problem. Avoiding this unnecessary restraint will
leave sponsors with more capital available to deploy for other and potentially more
efficient purposes. The economic consequences of exempting qualifying assets are
analogous to the discussion associated with requiring stricter lending standards for a
“qualified mortgage” (QM) in the residential lending market. Also there will be fewer
administrative, monitoring and compliance costs for sponsors of qualifying assets if there
is no risk retention. Lower costs of securitizing loans may enhance competition in the
market for qualifying auto, commercial real estate and commercial loans by allowing
more firms to be profitable. While we believe that the qualified standards will result in
only a small percentage of securitizations to be exempt from risk retention, we believe
that many of these asset classes have existing practices that are consistent with the risk
retention requirements that the agencies are adopting today. 477 Further, as discussed
elsewhere in this economic analysis, the agencies have made adjustments to other areas

476

Section 15G allocates authority to prescribe the underwriting criteria for qualifying
assets to the federal banking agencies, and the SEC is not promulgating this aspect of the
final rule. Consequently, the Commission’s Economic Analysis does not address this
aspect of the final rule. However, see the discussion below for a general discussion of the
economic effects of providing an exemption for qualifying assets, as contemplated by
Section 15G.

477

But see discussion of open market CLOs in Section 5.b.vi of this Economic Analysis.

548

of the rule (e.g., CMBS option, horizontal risk retention) to address concerns about the
implementation of risk retention to particular asset classes or structures.
a. Blended Pools of Qualifying Assets
The reproposal would permit sponsors to blend pools of qualifying automobile
loans, qualifying commercial loans or QCRE loans with non-qualifying assets of the
same class to receive up to a 50 percent reduction in the minimum required risk retention
amount.
While many sponsor commenters supported the ability to blend pools of
qualifying and non-qualifying assets to obtain a reduced risk retention amount, these
commenters requested that the agencies remove the 50 percent limit on the reduction for
blended pools of commercial, CRE, or automobile loans. Investor commenters, however,
generally opposed allowing blended pools of qualifying and non-qualifying assets.
The agencies are adopting the provision as reproposed. Allowing blended pools
with a reduced risk retention requirement will improve efficiency, competition and
capital formation by allowing sponsors to securitize more loans when it is difficult to
obtain a large enough pool of qualifying assets to issue an ABS consisting entirely of
exempted assets.
By allowing reduced risk retention on blended pools, sponsors hold less risk
retention on lower quality loans than they would otherwise. For example, a sponsor that
holds vertical risk retention and that forms of pool of 50 percent non-qualifying loans
would be exposed to 2.5 percent of the credit risk of the non-qualifying loans compared
to 5 percent if the pool were comprised entirely of non-qualifying loans. Hence,
increasing the fraction of qualifying loans into the pool lessens the fraction of credit

549

exposure to the remaining non-qualifying loans. In the extreme, inclusion of 1 percent of
non-qualifying loans would result in a sponsor being exposed to only 0.05 percent of the
non-qualifying loans. This could erode the disincentives of the originate-to-distribute
model that the risk retention requirement was designed to address. In order to ensure
sponsors hold a meaningful amount of risk and do not have incentives to underwrite and
securitize low quality loans the limit on the reduction of risk retention requirement is 50
percent. Thus, even in the case of a pool of 1 percent non-qualified loans a sponsor
would still have to retain 2.5 percent of the credit risk of the pool.
b. Buyback Requirement
Exempting certain type of loans gives sponsors an incentive to misrepresent
qualifications of loans, similar to what was observed in the run-up to the financial crisis.
However, the final rule requires that, if after issuance of a qualifying asset securitization,
it was discovered that a loan did not meet the qualifying underwriting criteria, the
sponsor would have to repurchase or cure the loan (buyback requirement).
Commenters did not provide any comments on the buyback requirement except
for the effect of the provision on CLOs. Some sponsor commenters opposed the buyback
provision for CLOs, noting that open market CLO managers are thinly capitalized and
generally would not have significant financial resources available to buy back loans in
the pools they manage. The agencies are adopting this provision as reproposed.
The benefit of this provision is that it helps to prevent and disincentivize
sponsors from trying to include non-qualifying loans in the securitization without
representing them as such for the purpose of avoiding risk retention. The buyback
provision should increase investors’ willingness to invest because it makes sponsors of

550

asset-backed securities responsible for correcting discovered underwriting mistakes and
ensures that the actual characteristics of the underlying asset pool conform to the
promised characteristics.
c. Qualified Residential Mortgages
The risk to financial markets from poor underwriting practices and inadequate
disclosure of risks to investors in the RMBS securitizations is considerable. A body of
academic literature has emerged since the financial crisis that supports the view that,
during the early to mid-2000s, residential mortgage-backed securitizations (RMBSs)
contributed to a significant decline in underwriting standards for residential mortgage
loans, particularly in the private label securitization market. 478 During this time, the
volume of private label RMBS issuance increased significantly from $343 billion in 2003
to $726 billion in 2005 and $685 billion by 2006. 479 GSE sponsored securitizations fell
during this same period. An analysis of historical performance among loans securitized
into private-label RMBS that originated between 1997 and 2009 shows that those
meeting the QM standard sustained exceedingly high serious delinquency rates, greater
than 30 percent during that period. 480

478

Keys, Mukherjee, Seru and Vig, “Did Securitization Lead to Lax Screening?
Evidence from Subprime Loans”, Quarterly Journal of Economics, vol. 125, no. 1, pp.
307-362, February 2010 and Nadauld and Sherlund, “The Impact of Securitization on the
Expansion of Subprime Credit”, Journal of Financial Economics, vol. 107, no. 2,
February 2013, pp. 454–476.

479

Source: SIFMA Statistics available at http://www.sifma.org/research/statistics.aspx.

480

See Joshua White and Scott Bauguess, Qualified Residential Mortgage: Background
Data Analysis on Credit Risk Retention, (August 2013), available at
http://www.sec.gov/divisions/riskfin/whitepapers/qrm-analysis-08-2013.pdf.

551

These high delinquency rates underscore the moral hazard problem described
earlier that can arise when disclosures to investors do not provide sufficient detail to
adequately evaluate the quality of the loans backing the security. This problem was
exacerbated by the fact that the underlying RMBS loan pools were typically comprised of
thousands of loans that required time and resources to evaluate, but with key features of
the loans not always available to investors in sufficient detail to make those evaluations.
The resulting information asymmetry, combined with the originate-to-distribute
incentives that allowed sponsors to receive full compensation before investors had the
opportunity to learn about loan quality and ultimate risks, generated the conditions that
contributed to the financial crisis. It is these conditions that the risk retention rule is
designed to address.
The rule the agencies are adopting today exempts from the risk retention
requirements any securitization comprised exclusively of QRMs. Section 15G requires
that asset-backed securities that are collateralized solely by QRMs be completely
exempted from risk retention requirements and allows the agencies to define the terms
and conditions under which a residential mortgage would qualify as a QRM. Section
15G mandates that the definition of a QRM be no broader than the definition of a QM, as
such term is defined under Section 129C(b)(2) of the Truth in Lending Act.
Pursuant to the statutory mandate, the agencies are exempting securitizations
collateralized solely by QRMs and, pursuant to the discretion permitted, are defining
QRMs as QMs. As outlined in the reproposal, the Commission believes that this
definition of QRM would achieve a number of important benefits. First, since the criteria
established by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to define QMs focus

552

on underwriting standards, less risky product features, and affordability, the Commission
believes that aligning the definition of QRM with QM is likely to promote more prudent
lending and contribute to a sustainable, resilient and liquid mortgage securitization
market.
Second, the Commission believes that a single mortgage quality standard (as
opposed to creating a second mortgage quality standard) would benefit market
participants by simplifying the lending and securitization requirements and eligibilities
applicable to the residential mortgage and RMBS market. Moreover, having a separate
mortgage standard for the exemption from risk retention could impact the relevance of
the QM standard, particularly if the definitions were not sufficiently different. For
example, if the two standards resulted in qualified mortgages of similar risk, it is possible
that sponsors would focus on securitizing only mortgages that met the higher QRM
standard because of the exemption from risk retention. If so, this could impact access to
capital for creditworthy borrowers who could not secure a QRM, because their loans
would be less attractive to securitizers and impact an originator’s ability to sell it.
Commenters suggested that this would hit middle income and first time borrowers the
hardest, and have a detrimental impact to capital formation.
Third, a broad definition of QRM avoids the potential effect of squeezing out
certain lenders, such as community banks and credit unions, which may not have
sufficient resources to hold the capital associated with the origination of non-QRMs, thus
enhancing competition within this segment of the lending market. The Commission
believes that a broad QRM definition will increase the ability of these lenders to

553

securitize their mortgage originations and thus increase their ability to generate new loans
and facilitate enhanced borrower access to capital.
Finally, a broad definition of QRM may help encourage the re-emergence of
private capital in securitization markets. The Enterprises currently have a competitive
advantage over private label securitizations because the Enterprises benefit from lower
funding costs attributed to the recognition of their explicit Federal capital support, a
subsidy to their lending activity that is not available to private label securitizations.
Moreover, the Enterprises’ current guarantee of their securitizations fulfill the risk
retention requirements as long as they are in receivership and conservatorship and meet
other conditions, and they would not have the same concomitant costs of complying with
the rule as private parties during this time. Hence, the less restrictive QRM criteria
should enhance the competitiveness of sponsors of private label securitizations by
expanding the scope of loans eligible for securitization without triggering risk retention
requirements. This, in turn, would reduce the need for borrowers to rely on programs
offered by the Enterprises.
Aligning the definition of QRM to QM incorporates into the definition of QRM
certain loan product features that historical performance data indicates results in a lower
risk of default. The Commission thus acknowledges that the QM standard does not fully
address the loan underwriting features that are most likely to result in a lower risk of
default, including down payment requirements and measures of borrower credit history.
The Commission, however, believes that other regulatory developments may provide
investors with additional information that allows them to more effectively assess the
potential risks underlying securitizations as well as more effective recourse against

554

sponsors when problems arise with the performance of underlying loans. In particular,
the Commission has recently adopted revisions to Regulation AB 481 that require in
registered RMBS transactions disclosure of detailed loan-level information at the time of
issuance and on an ongoing basis. As previously described, for registered offerings
covered by the revised Regulation AB, the loan level disclosures should enhance an
investor’s ability to accurately assess the quality of the underlying assets. The revised
Regulation AB also requires issuers to provide investors with this information in
sufficient time prior to the first sale of securities so that they can analyze this information
when making their investment decision and provides additional transactional safeguards
for registered shelf offerings. These regulatory reforms, combined with the prudential
underwriting standards embodied in the QM definition, should serve to significantly
mitigate the moral hazard problem for registered RMBS securitizations. As previously
discussed, private-label securitizations issued through unregistered offerings are not
subject to the asset-level requirements under revised Regulation AB.
The Commission is aware that defining QRMs broadly to equate with the
definition of QM may result in a number of economic costs. Most notably, sponsors will
not be required to retain an economic interest in the credit risk of QRM loans, and thus,
there will be less incentivized to avoid the originate-to-distribute model that can
contribute to poor quality underwriting and the obfuscation of risk to the ultimate
investors in RMBS securitizations. Moreover, although the QRM exemption is based on
the premise that well-underwritten mortgages were not the cause of the financial crisis,

481

See 79 FR 57184.

555

the criteria for QM loans do not account for all borrower characteristics that may provide
additional information about default rates. In particular, QM loans do not account for
certain underwriting and product features that historical loan performance indicate lower
risk of default. For instance, borrowers’ credit history, down payment and loan-to-value
ratio have been shown to be significantly associated with lower borrower default rates. 482
This introduces additional risk into securitizations without a risk retention requirement
relative to a more narrowly defined QRM definition.
Some commenters indicated that the QM-Plus alternative proposal that included a
down payment requirement was unnecessarily restrictive, did not account for
compensating factors in underwriting practices, and that the foreclosure crisis was
predominantly a result of abusive loan terms and practices that are addressed by the QM
definition. The commenters concluded that the QM definition adequately addresses
product features that historical loan performance data indicate result in a lower risk of
default, that low down payment loans have been used with great success to promote
sustainable homeownership, and aligning the definition of QRM to QM strikes the right
balance of improved standards and the need to improve access to affordable credit on
reasonable terms.
Commenters also questioned the estimated delinquency rates reported in the
Commission analysis of historical loan performance among loans packaged by private
label securitizations that would have met the current QM definition. These commenters
claimed that the SEC staff study included loans with risky features linked to default that

482

See footnote 481.

556

would not meet the QM definition, and that the period of analysis of the SEC staff study
focused too narrowly on the origination years leading up to the financial crisis, and thus
the most poorly underwritten mortgages. As a result, these commenters stated that the 34
percent estimated serious delinquency rate among securitized private label loans found in
the SEC staff study did not fairly reflect the effect of the QM definition, which when
applied to their broader sample of mortgages (that included GSE purchased loans and
non-securitized loans) was 5.8 percent.
The Commission recognizes that estimates of delinquency rates are sensitive to
the sample of mortgages analyzed, and in particular, can vary significantly based on the
time period and types of loans analyzed. In particular, as previously noted, there is a
large difference in the historical performance of GSE purchased loans, for which GSEs’
current guarantee fulfills the risk retention requirements as long as GSEs are in
receivership and conservatorship and meet other conditions, which effectively currently
exempts such loans from risk retention requirements, and securitized private labels loans.
The SEC staff study focused on securitized private labels loans to respond to previous
commenter concern that the original proposal inappropriately focused on loans purchased
by GSEs and thus excluded originations held in non-GSE securitizations. The SEC staff
study also focused on the years leading up to the crisis years because this was the period
of underwriting abuses for which the presence of a QM definition would have had the
most relevance. Moreover, the 34 percent delinquency rate reported in the SEC staff

557

study is consistent with estimates provided in the analysis of another commenter when
restricted to the same loan types and period. 483
As previously discussed, some asymmetric information issues contributing to the
moral hazard problem of the originate-to-distribute model are addressed by the revisions
to Regulation AB. In particular, while registered RMBS backed by QRM loans are
exempt from risk retention, issuers of such securities are required to provide loan-level
information for each asset in the underlying pool in accordance with revised Regulation
AB. Thus, the moral hazard problem is reduced for these issuances because asset-level
disclosure should mitigate the information asymmetry problem to the extent that the
disclosures adequately inform investors of the risks.
At present, private label RMBS transactions comprise only a small fraction of the
total non-agency asset-backed securities market – 6.4 percent by dollar volume in
2013. 484 Moreover, only 16 percent of RMBS were registered issues. This is far below
the pre-crisis levels. For example, the issuance volume of private label RMBS
securitizations was $801 billion in 2006, which accounted for 39 percent of the total nonagency asset-backed securities issuance in 2006. Of these transactions, only 9.3 percent
were privately-issued offerings (e.g., resales under Rule 144A or private placements),
transactions that would not be subject to asset-level disclosures by the revised Regulation
AB rules. If the private label securitization market were to return to pre-crisis levels and

483

Urban Institute, Table 1 reports 36 percent delinquency rate for Private Label
Securities originated during the 2006-2008 period.

484

All figures in this paragraph are calculated by DERA staff using the Asset-Backed
Alert and Commercial Mortgage Alert databases.

558

registration practices, then a significant portion of the RMBS market would be subject to
asset-level disclosures. For the remaining unregistered offerings, risk retention
requirements would still apply and address the potential moral hazard problem to the
extent that the underlying securitizations were not comprised of QRMs.
Broadly, by aligning the definition of QRM to QM the agencies are fostering the
least restrictive capital formation regime for residential mortgages allowed under the
statute. This alignment allows for securitizations exempt from the requirement of risk
retention that include loans with low down payment and loans without down payment or
borrower credit history requirements. By not adopting these additional credit overlays,
the agencies have sought to facilitate the ability of mortgage originators to have sponsors
package their loans into securitizations and thereby generate new capital for the
continued origination of new mortgages. In the near term, under prevailing tight
mortgage lending conditions, this definition is intended to promote borrower access to
capital, especially for low-and moderate income, minority and first-time home buyers,
and accelerate the recovery of the private label RMBS market.
However, aligning the definition of QRM to QM also provides the least restrictive
regulatory measure available under the statute to mitigate the reemergence of the moral
hazard problem in the RMBS market. By exempting from the risk retention requirement
securitizations comprised of loans with characteristics that historically have been
indicators of a higher probability of mortgage default, the same economic incentives for
the originate-to-distribute model that existed prior to the onset of the financial crisis may
persist.

559

Hence the alignment of the definition of the two mortgage standards involves a
tradeoff between, on the one hand, promoting financial market recovery and borrower
access to capital, and, on the other hand, adding additional credit requirements that may
lessen the likelihood of future moral hazards related to the lending practices in the
housing market but also further constrain mortgage credit. The agencies have sought to
address this tradeoff through the introduction of a periodic review of the QRM definition
that allows the agencies to monitor the rule’s effects as the RMBS market evolves in the
new regulatory environment. The agencies will review the QRM definition at regular
intervals and in response to any changes made to the QM definition by the CFPB, and as
a result of these reviews, may or may not decide to modify the definition of QRM
through notice and comment rulemaking. Moreover, the agencies will commence a
review at any time upon the request of any one of the agencies. By including this review
process in the final rule, the agencies recognize that prevailing market conditions could
change in a way that merits a stricter definition of QRM, and have introduced a process
by which the alignment of QRM to QM can be assessed going forward.
d. Mortgage Loans Exempt from QM
The agencies are also adopting an exemption from risk retention for
securitizations of loans originated through community-focused lending programs that are
currently exempt from the CFPB’s ability-to-repay requirements and an exemption for
certain three-to-four unit mortgage loans.
Exempting securitizations of loans originated through community-focused
lending programs that are currently exempt from the CFPB’s ability-to-repay
requirements from risk retention will increase capital formation. The mission of many of

560

these community-based lenders is to provide access to capital for underserved
communities; requiring risk retention for them would impose a cost that might impinge
on their ability to make loans or might increase their cost of capital. The borrowers that
rely on community based lenders may also avoid higher borrowing costs as the result of
this exemption. Efficiency may be improved to the extent community based underwriters
have more information about their borrowers than other lenders and use soft information
to underwrite their loans. 485 We acknowledge, however, that underwriting standards may
change allowing lower quality loans to be securitized. The exemption for these loans, as
with QRM, however, will be subject to periodic review by the agencies.
The agencies are also providing an exemption from the risk retention
requirements for certain mortgage loans secured by three-to-four unit residential
properties that meet the criteria for QM other than being a consumer credit transaction, as
well as an exemption to permit sponsors to securitize these exempted mortgage loans
with QRMs. The exemption for these loans, as with QRM, will be subject to periodic
review by the agencies.
Even though three-to-four unit mortgages comprise a relatively small fraction of
the one-to-four residential mortgage market, exempting securitizations of such loans from
risk retention could increase access to capital for these borrowers. Among loans acquired
or guaranteed by Fannie Mae (Freddie Mac) between 2000 and 2013, only 0.93 percent

485

See, e.g., O.E. Ergungor, “Bank Branch Presence and Access to Credit in Low- to
Moderate-Income Neighborhoods” Journal of Money, Credit, and Banking, 2010; S.
Agrawal, B. Ambrose, S. Chomsisengphet, and C. Liu, “The role of Soft Information in a
Dynamic Contract Setting: Evidence from the Home Equity Credit Market,” Journal of
Money Credit and Banking, 2011; C. Chang, G. Liao, Z. Yu, Z. Ni, “Information From
Relationship Lending: Evidence from Loan Defaults in China,” working paper, 2010.

561

(0.70 percent) of loans by initial balance were three-to-four unit mortgages, and the total
principal balance of such mortgages acquired or guaranteed by the Enterprises exceeded
$56 billion. Three-to-four unit mortgages were slightly more prominent in the privatelabel securitization market, for which 1.51 percent of loans by initial balance were threeto-four unit mortgages, with the total original principal balance of almost $23 billion. 486
Currently, the Enterprises’ guarantee is an acceptable form of risk retention as
long as they are in receivership or conservatorship and meet other conditions. Thus,
under current conditions, three-to-four unit mortgages guaranteed by the Enterprises can
be securitized without having to comply with the risk retention requirements. However,
without the exemption, should the Enterprises in the future no longer be in receivership
or conservatorship, these three-to-four unit mortgages would be subject to the risk
retention requirements even if they otherwise met the QM criteria. The exemption will
allow such mortgages to continue to be securitized with two unit mortgages, as has been
historical practice, regardless of the legal status of the Enterprises and provided that all of
the loans in the pool meet the QM criteria. In this way, the exemption will help to
facilitate continued access to capital for borrowers of three-to-four unit mortgages.
Based on historical data, three-to-four unit residential mortgages that otherwise
satisfy the QM criteria exhibit comparable or lower delinquency rates as QM two unit
residential mortgages. The average serious delinquency rate 487 among such three-to-four

486

DERA staff calculations based on MBSData dataset. The dataset provides data for the
number of units for 31.3 percent of the loans securitized privately between 2000 and
2012.

487

Serious delinquency (SDQ) is defined as a loan having ever been 90 days late,
foreclosed, or real estate owned.
562

unit mortgages securitized through private-label securitizations in 2000–2009 was 36
percent, whereas among two unit mortgages it was 41 percent. Moreover, the difference
in delinquency rates are not statistically different when controlling for other factors
known to influence delinquency rates like credit score, loan-to-value ratio, debt-toincome ratio, etc. 488 These results indicate that historical three-to-four unit residential
mortgage delinquency rates are no higher than those of two unit residential mortgages,
and thus do not provide any evidence that exempting such mortgages from risk retention
would introduce additional risk into securitizations that would include such loans. The
Commission believes that this equivalent performance is likely to continue after the
implementation of this exemption because both two unit and three-to-four unit mortgages
would be required to satisfy the same QM underwriting criteria.
D. OCC Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995 Determination
Section 202 of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995, Public Law 104-4
(UMRA) requires that an agency prepare a budgetary impact statement before
promulgating a rule that includes a Federal mandate that may result in an expenditure by
State, local, and tribal governments, in the aggregate, or by the private sector, of $100
million or more, adjusted for inflation ($152 million in 2014) in any one year. If a
budgetary impact statement is required, section 205 of the UMRA also requires an

488

Specifically, DERA staff ran the predictive logit regression from the White and
Bauguess (2013) study (see footnote 446) for privately securitized 2, 3, and 4 unit
mortgages in the MBSData database satisfying QM criteria and originated over the period
2000–2009. Adding an indicator variable marking three-to-four unit residential
mortgages does not generate a statistically significant coefficient estimate, and does not
improve the regression’s goodness-of-fit measure (pseudo-R-squared).

563

agency to identify and consider a reasonable number of regulatory alternatives before
promulgating a rule.
The OCC has determined this final rule is likely to result in the expenditure by the
private sector of $152 million or more in any one year. The OCC has prepared a
budgetary impact analysis and identified and considered alternative approaches, including
approaches suggested by commenters and discussed in the Supplementary Information
section above. When the final rule is published in the Federal Register, the full text of
the OCC’s analysis will be available at: http://www.regulations.gov, Docket ID OCC–
2013–0010.
E. FHFA: Considerations of Differences between the Federal Home Loan Banks
and the Enterprises
Section 1313 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness
Act of 1992 requires the Director of FHFA, when promulgating regulations relating to the
Federal Home Loan Banks (Banks), to consider the following differences between the
Banks and the Enterprises (Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac): cooperative ownership
structure; mission of providing liquidity to members; affordable housing and community
development mission; capital structure; and joint and several liability. 489 The Director
also may consider any other differences that are deemed appropriate. In preparing the
portions of this final rule over which FHFA has joint rulemaking authority, the Director
considered the differences between the Banks and the Enterprises as they relate to the
above factors and determined that the rule was appropriate. No comments were received

489

See 12 U.S.C. 4513.

564

on the reproposed rule with respect to this issue.

565

Text of the Common Rule
(All Agencies)
The text of the common rule appears below:
PART __—CREDIT RISK RETENTION
Subpart A

Authority, Purpose, Scope and Definitions
Sec.
__.1

[Reserved]

__.2 Definitions.
Subpart B

Credit Risk Retention
__.3

Base risk retention requirement.

__.4

Standard risk retention.

__.5

Revolving pool securitizations.

__.6

Eligible ABCP conduits.

__.7

Commercial mortgage-backed securities.

__.8 Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation ABS.
__.9 Open market CLOs.
__.10 Qualified tender option bonds.
Subpart C

Transfer of Risk Retention
__.11 Allocation of risk retention to an originator.
__.12 Hedging, transfer and financing prohibitions.

Subpart D

Exceptions and Exemptions
__.13 Exemption for qualified residential mortgages.

566

__.14 Definitions applicable to qualifying commercial loans,
commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans.
__.15 Qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and
automobile loans.
__.16 Underwriting standards for qualifying commercial loans.
__.17 Underwriting standards for qualifying CRE loans.
__.18 Underwriting standards for qualifying automobile loans.
__.19 General exemptions.
__.20 Safe harbor for certain foreign-related transactions.
__.21 Additional exemptions.
__.22

Periodic review of the QRM definition, exempted three-to-four
unit residential mortgage loans, and community-focused
residential mortgage exemption

SUBPART A—AUTHORITY, PURPOSE, SCOPE AND DEFINITIONS
§ __.1 [Reserved]
§ __.2 Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
ABS interest means:
(1) Any type of interest or obligation issued by an issuing entity, whether or not in
certificated form, including a security, obligation, beneficial interest or residual interest
(other than (i) a non-economic residual interest issued by a REMIC or (ii) an
uncertificated regular interest in a REMIC that is held by another REMIC, where both
REMICs are part of the same structure and a single REMIC in that structure issues ABS

567

interests to investors), payments on which are primarily dependent on the cash flows of
the collateral owned or held by the issuing entity; and
(2) Does not include common or preferred stock, limited liability interests,
partnership interests, trust certificates, or similar interests that:
(i) Are issued primarily to evidence ownership of the issuing entity; and
(ii) The payments, if any, on which are not primarily dependent on the cash flows
of the collateral held by the issuing entity; and
(3) Does not include the right to receive payments for services provided by the
holder of such right, including servicing, trustee services and custodial services.
An affiliate of, or a person affiliated with, a specified person means a person that
directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or
is under common control with, the person specified.
Appropriate Federal banking agency has the same meaning as in section 3 of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
Asset means a self-liquidating financial asset (including but not limited to a loan,
lease, mortgage, or receivable).
Asset-backed security has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(79) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)).
Collateral means, with respect to any issuance of ABS interests, the assets that
provide the cash flow and the servicing assets that support such cash flow for the ABS
interests irrespective of the legal structure of issuance, including security interests in
assets or other property of the issuing entity, fractional undivided property interests in the

568

assets or other property of the issuing entity, or any other property interest in or rights to
cash flow from such assets and related servicing assets.
Assets or other property collateralize an issuance of ABS interests if the assets or
property serve as collateral for such issuance.
Commercial real estate loan has the same meaning as in § __.14.
Commission means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Control including the terms “controlling,” “controlled by” and “under common
control with”:
(1) Means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the
direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of
voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.
(2) Without limiting the foregoing, a person shall be considered to control another
person if the first person:
(i) Owns, controls or holds with power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of
voting securities of the other person; or
(ii) Controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees or
persons performing similar functions of the other person.
Credit risk means:
(1) The risk of loss that could result from the failure of the borrower in the case of
a securitized asset, or the issuing entity in the case of an ABS interest in the issuing
entity, to make required payments of principal or interest on the asset or ABS interest on
a timely basis;

569

(2) The risk of loss that could result from bankruptcy, insolvency, or a similar
proceeding with respect to the borrower or issuing entity, as appropriate; or
(3) The effect that significant changes in the underlying credit quality of the asset
or ABS interest may have on the market value of the asset or ABS interest.
Creditor has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1602(g).
Depositor means:
(1) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the securitized
assets to the issuing entity;
(2) The sponsor, in the case of a securitization transaction where there is not an
intermediate transfer of the assets from the sponsor to the issuing entity; or
(3) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the securitized
assets to the issuing entity in the case of a securitization transaction where the person
transferring or selling the securitized assets directly to the issuing entity is itself a trust.
Eligible horizontal residual interest means, with respect to any securitization
transaction, an ABS interest in the issuing entity:
(1) That is an interest in a single class or multiple classes in the issuing entity,
provided that each interest meets, individually or in the aggregate, all of the requirements
of this definition;
(2) With respect to which, on any payment date or allocation date on which the
issuing entity has insufficient funds to satisfy its obligation to pay all contractual interest
or principal due, any resulting shortfall will reduce amounts payable to the eligible
horizontal residual interest prior to any reduction in the amounts payable to any other
ABS interest, whether through loss allocation, operation of the priority of payments, or

570

any other governing contractual provision (until the amount of such ABS interest is
reduced to zero); and
(3) That, with the exception of any non-economic REMIC residual interest, has
the most subordinated claim to payments of both principal and interest by the issuing
entity.
Eligible horizontal cash reserve account means an account meeting the
requirements of § __.4(b).
Eligible vertical interest means, with respect to any securitization transaction, a
single vertical security or an interest in each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity
issued as part of the securitization transaction that constitutes the same proportion of each
such class.
Federal banking agencies means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation.
GAAP means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United
States.
Issuing entity means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the trust or other
entity:
(1) That owns or holds the pool of assets to be securitized; and
(2) In whose name the asset-backed securities are issued.
Majority-owned affiliate of a person means an entity (other than the issuing
entity) that, directly or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by or is under
common majority control with, such person. For purposes of this definition, majority

571

control means ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity, or ownership
of any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.
Originator means a person who:
(1) Through an extension of credit or otherwise, creates an asset that collateralizes
an asset-backed security; and
(2) Sells the asset directly or indirectly to a securitizer or issuing entity.
REMIC has the same meaning as in 26 U.S.C. 860D.
Residential mortgage means (i) a transaction that is a covered transaction as
defined in section 1026.43(b) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(b)(1)); (ii) any
transaction that is exempt from the definition of “covered transaction” under section
1026.43(a) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(a)); and (iii) any other loan secured by a
residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure is
attached to real property, including an individual condominium or cooperative unit and, if
used as a residence, a mobile home or trailer.
Retaining sponsor means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the sponsor
that has retained or caused to be retained an economic interest in the credit risk of the
securitized assets pursuant to subpart B of this part.
Securitization transaction means a transaction involving the offer and sale of
asset-backed securities by an issuing entity.
Securitized asset means an asset that:
(1) Is transferred, sold, or conveyed to an issuing entity; and
(2) Collateralizes the ABS interests issued by the issuing entity.
Securitizer means, with respect to a securitization transaction, either:

572

(1) The depositor of the asset-backed securities (if the depositor is not the
sponsor); or
(2) The sponsor of the asset-backed securities.
Servicer means any person responsible for the management or collection of the
securitized assets or making allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests,
but does not include a trustee for the issuing entity or the asset-backed securities that
makes allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests if the trustee receives
such allocations or distributions from a servicer and the trustee does not otherwise
perform the functions of a servicer.
Servicing assets means rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or
timely distribution of proceeds to ABS interest holders and rights or other assets that are
related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring and holding the issuing entity’s
securitized assets. Servicing assets include amounts received by the issuing entity as
proceeds of securitized assets, including proceeds of rights or other assets, whether as
remittances by obligors or as other recoveries.
Single vertical security means, with respect to any securitization transaction, an
ABS interest entitling the sponsor to a specified percentage of the amounts paid on each
class of ABS interests in the issuing entity (other than such single vertical security).
Sponsor means a person who organizes and initiates a securitization transaction
by selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an
affiliate, to the issuing entity.
State has the same meaning as in Section 3(a)(16) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(16)).

573

United States or U.S. means the United States of America, including its territories
and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
Wholly-owned affiliate means a person (other than an issuing entity) that, directly
or indirectly, wholly controls, is wholly controlled by, or is wholly under common
control with, another person. For purposes of this definition, “wholly controls” means
ownership of 100 percent of the equity of an entity.
SUBPART B—CREDIT RISK RETENTION
§ __.3 Base risk retention requirement.
(a) Base risk retention requirement. Except as otherwise provided in this part, the
sponsor of a securitization transaction (or majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor) shall
retain an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets in accordance with
any one of §§ __.4 through __.10. Credit risk in securitized assets required to be retained
and held by any person for purposes of compliance with this part, whether a sponsor, an
originator, an originator-seller, or a third-party purchaser, except as otherwise provided in
this part, may be acquired and held by any of such person’s majority-owned affiliates
(other than an issuing entity).
(b) Multiple sponsors. If there is more than one sponsor of a securitization
transaction, it shall be the responsibility of each sponsor to ensure that at least one of the
sponsors of the securitization transaction (or at least one of their majority-owned or
wholly-owned affiliates, as applicable) retains an economic interest in the credit risk of
the securitized assets in accordance with any one of §§ __.4, __.5, __.8, __.9, or __.10.
§ __.4 Standard risk retention.

574

(a) General requirement. Except as provided in §§ __.5 through __.10, the
sponsor of a securitization transaction must retain an eligible vertical interest or eligible
horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the
requirements of this section.
(1) If the sponsor retains only an eligible vertical interest as its required risk
retention, the sponsor must retain an eligible vertical interest in a percentage of not less
than 5 percent.
(2) If the sponsor retains only an eligible horizontal residual interest as its
required risk retention, the amount of the interest must equal at least 5 percent of the fair
value of all ABS interests in the issuing entity issued as a part of the securitization
transaction, determined using a fair value measurement framework under GAAP.
(3) If the sponsor retains both an eligible vertical interest and an eligible
horizontal residual interest as its required risk retention, the percentage of the fair value
of the eligible horizontal residual interest and the percentage of the eligible vertical
interest must equal at least five.
(4) The percentage of the eligible vertical interest, eligible horizontal residual
interest, or combination thereof retained by the sponsor must be determined as of the
closing date of the securitization transaction.
(b) Option to hold base amount in eligible horizontal cash reserve account. In lieu
of retaining all or any part of an eligible horizontal residual interest under paragraph (a)
of this section, the sponsor may, at closing of the securitization transaction, cause to be
established and funded, in cash, an eligible horizontal cash reserve account in the amount

575

equal to the fair value of such eligible horizontal residual interest or part thereof,
provided that the account meets all of the following conditions:
(1) The account is held by the trustee (or person performing similar functions) in
the name and for the benefit of the issuing entity;
(2) Amounts in the account are invested only in cash and cash equivalents; and
(3) Until all ABS interests in the issuing entity are paid in full, or the issuing
entity is dissolved:
(i) Amounts in the account shall be released only to:
(A) Satisfy payments on ABS interests in the issuing entity on any payment date
on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds from any source to satisfy an amount
due on any ABS interest; or
(B) Pay critical expenses of the trust unrelated to credit risk on any payment date
on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds from any source to pay such expenses
and:
(1) Such expenses, in the absence of available funds in the eligible horizontal cash
reserve account, would be paid prior to any payments to holders of ABS interests; and
(2) Such payments are made to parties that are not affiliated with the sponsor; and
(ii) Interest (or other earnings) on investments made in accordance with paragraph
(b)(2) of this section may be released once received by the account.
(c) Disclosures. A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be
provided, to potential investors, under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, a reasonable
period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization

576

transaction the following disclosures in written form and within the time frames set forth
in this paragraph (c):
(1) Horizontal interest. With respect to any eligible horizontal residual interest
held under paragraph (a) of this section, a sponsor must disclose:
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security issued
in the same offering of ABS interests,
(A) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS
interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding
amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of
the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of
the securitization transaction. If the specific prices, sizes, or rates of interest of each
tranche of the securitization are not available, the sponsor must disclose a range of fair
values (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the
securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign
currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal
residual interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the close of the securitization
transaction based on a range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, sizes, or rates of
interest of each tranche of the securitization. A sponsor disclosing a range of fair values
based on a range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, sizes or rates of interest of
each tranche of the securitization must also disclose the method by which it determined
any range of prices, tranche sizes, or rates of interest.
(B) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest
to be retained by the sponsor;

577

(C) A description of the valuation methodology used to calculate the fair values or
range of fair values of all classes of ABS interests, including any portion of the eligible
horizontal residual interest retained by the sponsor;
(D) All key inputs and assumptions or a comprehensive description of such key
inputs and assumptions that were used in measuring the estimated total fair value or range
of fair values of all classes of ABS interests, including the eligible horizontal residual
interest to be retained by the sponsor.
(E) To the extent applicable to the valuation methodology used, the disclosure
required in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section shall include, but should not be limited
to, quantitative information about each of the following:
(1) Discount rates;
(2) Loss given default (recovery);
(3) Prepayment rates;
(4) Default rates;
(5) Lag time between default and recovery; and
(6) The basis of forward interest rates used.
(F) The disclosure required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(C) and (c)(1)(i)(D) of this
section shall include, at a minimum, descriptions of all inputs and assumptions that either
could have a material impact on the fair value calculation or would be material to a
prospective investor’s ability to evaluate the sponsor’s fair value calculations. To the
extent the disclosure required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section includes a description of
a curve or curves, the description shall include a description of the methodology that was
used to derive each curve and a description of any aspects or features of each curve that

578

could materially impact the fair value calculation or the ability of a prospective investor
to evaluate the sponsor’s fair value calculation. To the extent a sponsor uses information
about the securitized assets in its calculation of fair value, such information shall not be
as of a date more than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors; provided that
for a subsequent issuance of ABS interests by the same issuing entity with the same
sponsor for which the securitization transaction distributes amounts to investors on a
quarterly or less frequent basis, such information shall not be as of a date more than 135
days prior to the date of first use with investors; provided further, that the balance or
value (in accordance with the transaction documents) of the securitized assets may be
increased or decreased to reflect anticipated additions or removals of assets the sponsor
makes or expects to make between the cut-off date and the closing date of the
securitization.
(G) A summary description of the reference data set or other historical
information used to develop the key inputs and assumptions referenced in paragraph
(c)(1)(i)(D) of this section, including loss given default and default rates;
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction:
(A) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS
interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding
amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS are issued, as applicable)) of the
eligible horizontal residual interest the sponsor retained at the closing of the securitization
transaction, based on actual sale prices and finalized tranche sizes;
(B) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS
interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding

579

amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS are issued, as applicable)) of the
eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor is required to retain under this
section; and
(C) To the extent the valuation methodology or any of the key inputs and
assumptions that were used in calculating the fair value or range of fair values disclosed
prior to sale and required under paragraph (i) materially differs from the methodology or
key inputs and assumptions used to calculate the fair value at the time of closing,
descriptions of those material differences.
(iii) If the sponsor retains risk through the funding of an eligible horizontal cash
reserve account:
(A) The amount to be placed (or that is placed) by the sponsor in the eligible
horizontal cash reserve account at closing, and the fair value (expressed as a percentage
of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and
dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS
interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the
sponsor is required to fund through the eligible horizontal cash reserve account in order
for such account, together with other retained interests, to satisfy the sponsor’s risk
retention requirement;
(B) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal cash reserve
account; and
(C) The disclosures required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) Vertical interest. With respect to any eligible vertical interest retained under
paragraph (a) of this section, the sponsor must disclose:

580

(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security issued
in the same offering of ABS interests,
(A) The form of the eligible vertical interest;
(B) The percentage that the sponsor is required to retain as a vertical interest
under this section; and
(C) A description of the material terms of the vertical interest and the amount that
the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction.
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction, the
amount of the vertical interest the sponsor retained at closing, if that amount is materially
different from the amount disclosed under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(d) Record maintenance. A sponsor must retain the certifications and disclosures
required in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section in its records and must provide the
disclosure upon request to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if
any, until three years after all ABS interests are no longer outstanding.
§ __.5 Revolving pool securitizations.
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
Revolving pool securitization means an issuing entity that is established to issue
on multiple issuance dates more than one series, class, subclass, or tranche of assetbacked securities that are collateralized by a common pool of securitized assets that will
change in composition over time, and that does not monetize excess interest and fees
from its securitized assets.
Seller’s interest means an ABS interest or ABS interests:

581

(1) Collateralized by the securitized assets and servicing assets owned or held by
the issuing entity, other than the following that are not considered a component of seller’s
interest:
(i) Servicing assets that have been allocated as collateral only for a specific series
in connection with administering the revolving pool securitization, such as a principal
accumulation or interest reserve account; and
(ii) Assets that are not eligible under the terms of the securitization transaction to
be included when determining whether the revolving pool securitization holds aggregate
securitized assets in specified proportions to aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests
issued; and
(2) That is pari passu with each series of investor ABS interests issued, or
partially or fully subordinated to one or more series in identical or varying amounts, with
respect to the allocation of all distributions and losses with respect to the securitized
assets prior to early amortization of the revolving securitization (as specified in the
securitization transaction documents); and
(3) That adjusts for fluctuations in the outstanding principal balance of the
securitized assets in the pool.
(b) General requirement. A sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirements of §
__.3 with respect to a securitization transaction for which the issuing entity is a revolving
pool securitization if the sponsor maintains a seller’s interest of not less than 5 percent of
the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests in the
issuing entity.

582

(c) Measuring the seller’s interest. In measuring the seller’s interest for purposes
of meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) The unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets for the numerator of the
5 percent ratio shall not include assets of the types excluded from the definition of
seller’s interest in paragraphs (1)(i) and (1)(ii);
(2) The aggregate unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests
in the denominator of the 5 percent ratio may be reduced by the amount of funds held in a
segregated principal accumulation account for the repayment of outstanding investor
ABS interests, if:
(i) The terms of the securitization transaction documents prevent funds in the
principal accumulation account from being applied for any purpose other than the
repayment of the unpaid principal of outstanding investor ABS interests; and
(ii) Funds in that account are invested only in the types of assets in which funds
held in an eligible horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § __.4 are permitted to be
invested;
(3) If the terms of the securitization transaction documents set minimum required
seller’s interest as a proportion of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor
ABS interests for one or more series issued, rather than as a proportion of the aggregate
outstanding investor ABS interests in all outstanding series combined, the percentage of
the seller’s interest for each such series must, when combined with the percentage of any
minimum seller’s interest set by reference to the aggregate outstanding investor ABS
interests, equal at least 5 percent;

583

(4) The 5 percent test must be determined and satisfied at the closing of each
issuance of ABS interests to investors by the issuing entity, and
(i) At least monthly at a seller’s interest measurement date specified under the
securitization transaction documents, until no ABS interest in the issuing entity is held
by any person not a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor; or
(ii) If the revolving pool securitization fails to meet the 5 percent test as of any
date described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, and the securitization transaction
documents specify a cure period, the 5 percent test must be determined and satisfied
within the earlier of the cure period, or one month after the date described in paragraph
(c)(4)(i).
(d) Measuring outstanding investor ABS interests. In measuring the amount of
outstanding investor ABS interests for purposes of this section, ABS interests held for the
life of such ABS interests by the sponsor or its wholly-owned affiliates may be excluded.
(e) Holding and retention of the seller’s interest; legacy trusts.
(1) Notwithstanding § __.12(a), the seller’s interest, and any offsetting horizontal
retention interest retained pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, must be retained by
the sponsor or by one or more wholly-owned affiliates of the sponsor, including one or
more depositors of the revolving pool securitization.
(2) If one revolving pool securitization issues collateral certificates representing a
beneficial interest in all or a portion of the securitized assets held by that securitization to
another revolving pool securitization, which in turn issues ABS interests for which the
collateral certificates are all or a portion of the securitized assets, a sponsor may satisfy
the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section by retaining the seller’s interest

584

for the assets represented by the collateral certificates through either of the revolving pool
securitizations, so long as both revolving pool securitizations are retained at the direction
of the same sponsor or its wholly-owned affiliates.
(3) If the sponsor retains the seller’s interest associated with the collateral
certificates at the level of the revolving pool securitization that issues those collateral
certificates, the proportion of the seller’s interest required by paragraph (b) of this section
retained at that level must equal the proportion that the principal balance of the
securitized assets represented by the collateral certificates bears to the principal balance
of the securitized assets in the revolving pool securitization that issues the ABS interests,
as of each measurement date required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(f) Offset for pool-level excess funding account. The 5 percent seller’s interest
required on each measurement date by paragraph (c) of this section may be reduced on a
dollar-for-dollar basis by the balance, as of such date, of an excess funding account in the
form of a segregated account that:
(1) Is funded in the event of a failure to meet the minimum seller’s interest
requirements or other requirement to maintain a minimum balance of securitized assets
under the securitization transaction documents by distributions otherwise payable to the
holder of the seller’s interest;
(2) Is invested only in the types of assets in which funds held in a horizontal cash
reserve account pursuant to § __.4 are permitted to be invested; and
(3) In the event of an early amortization, makes payments of amounts held in the
account to holders of investor ABS interests in the same manner as payments to holders
of investor ABS interests of amounts received on securitized assets.

585

(g) Combined seller’s interests and horizontal interest retention. The 5 percent
seller’s interest required on each measurement date by paragraph (c) of this section may
be reduced to a percentage lower than 5 percent to the extent that, for all series of
investor ABS interests issued after the applicable effective date of this § __.5, the
sponsor, or notwithstanding § __.12(a) a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor, retains, at
a minimum, a corresponding percentage of the fair value of ABS interests issued in each
series, in the form of one or more of the horizontal residual interests meeting the
requirements of paragraphs (h) or (i).
(h) Residual ABS interests in excess interest and fees. The sponsor may take the
offset described in paragraph (g) of this section for a residual ABS interest in excess
interest and fees, whether certificated or uncertificated, in a single or multiple classes,
subclasses, or tranches, that meets, individually or in the aggregate, the requirements of
this paragraph (h);
(1) Each series of the revolving pool securitization distinguishes between the
series’ share of the interest and fee cash flows and the series’ share of the principal
repayment cash flows from the securitized assets collateralizing the revolving pool
securitization, which may according to the terms of the securitization transaction
documents, include not only the series’ ratable share of such cash flows but also excess
cash flows available from other series;
(2) The residual ABS interest’s claim to any part of the series’ share of the
interest and fee cash flows for any interest payment period is subordinated to all accrued
and payable interest due on the payment date to more senior ABS interests in the series
for that period, and further reduced by the series’ share of losses, including defaults on

586

principal of the securitized assets collateralizing the revolving pool securitization
(whether incurred in that period or carried over from prior periods) to the extent that such
payments would have been included in amounts payable to more senior interests in the
series;
(3) The revolving pool securitization continues to revolve, with one or more
series, classes, subclasses, or tranches of asset-backed securities that are collateralized by
a common pool of assets that change in composition over time; and
(4) For purposes of taking the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section, the
sponsor determines the fair value of the residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees,
and the fair value of the series of outstanding investor ABS interests to which it is
subordinated and supports using the fair value measurement framework under GAAP, as
of:
(i) The closing of the securitization transaction issuing the supported ABS
interests; and
(ii) The seller’s interest measurement dates described in paragraph (c)(4) of this
section, except that for these periodic determinations the sponsor must update the fair
value of the residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees for the numerator of the
percentage ratio, but may at the sponsor’s option continue to use the fair values
determined in (g)(4)(i) for the outstanding investor ABS interests in the denominator.
(i) Offsetting eligible horizontal residual interest. The sponsor may take the
offset described in paragraph (g) of this section for ABS interests that would meet the
definition of eligible horizontal residual interests in § __.2 but for the sponsor’s

587

simultaneous holding of subordinated seller’s interests, residual ABS interests in excess
interests and fees, or a combination of the two, if:
(1) The sponsor complies with all requirements of paragraphs (b) through (e) of
this section for its holdings of subordinated seller’s interest, and paragraph (h) for its
holdings of residual ABS interests in excess interests and fees, as applicable;
(2) For purposes of taking the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section, the
sponsor determines the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest as a
percentage of the fair value of the outstanding investor ABS interests in the series
supported by the eligible horizontal residual interest, determined using the fair value
measurement framework under GAAP:
(i) As of the closing of the securitization transaction issuing the supported ABS
interests; and
(ii) Without including in the numerator of the percentage ratio any fair value
based on:
(A) The subordinated seller’s interest or residual ABS interest in excess interest
and fees;
(B) the interest payable to the sponsor on the eligible horizontal residual interest,
if the sponsor is including the value of residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees
pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section in taking the offset in paragraph (g) of this
section; and,
(C) the principal payable to the sponsor on the eligible horizontal residual interest,
if the sponsor is including the value of the seller’s interest pursuant to paragraphs (b)
through (f) of this section and distributions on that seller’s interest are available to reduce

588

charge-offs that would otherwise be allocated to reduce principal payable to the offset
eligible horizontal residual interest.
(j) Specified dates. A sponsor using data about the revolving pool
securitization’s collateral, or ABS interests previously issued, to determine the closingdate percentage of a seller’s interest, residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, or
eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to this § __.5 may use such data prepared as
of specified dates if:
(1) The sponsor describes the specified dates in the disclosures required by
paragraph (k) of this section; and
(2) The dates are no more than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors
of disclosures required for the interest by paragraph (k) of this section, or for revolving
pool securitizations that make distributions to investors on a quarterly or less frequent
basis, no more than 135 days prior to the date of first use with investors of such
disclosures.
(k) Disclosure and record maintenance. (1) Disclosure. A sponsor relying on
this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors, under the
caption “Credit Risk Retention” the following disclosure in written form and within the
time frames set forth in this paragraph (k):
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security, a
description of the material terms of the seller’s interest, and the percentage of the seller’s
interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction,
measured in accordance with the requirements of this § __.5, as a percentage of the
aggregate unpaid principal balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests issued, or as

589

a percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS
interests for one or more series issued, as required by the terms of the securitization
transaction;
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction, the
amount of seller’s interest the sponsor retained at closing, if that amount is materially
different from the amount disclosed under paragraph (i); and
(iii) A description of the material terms of any horizontal residual interests
offsetting the seller’s interest in accordance with paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this
section; and
(iv) Disclosure of the fair value of those horizontal residual interests retained by
the sponsor for the series being offered to investors and described in the disclosures, as a
percentage of the fair value of the outstanding investor ABS interests issued, described in
the same manner and within the same timeframes required for disclosure of the fair
values of eligible horizontal residual interests specified in § __.4(c).
(2) Adjusted data. Disclosures required by this paragraph (k) to be made a
reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security of the amount of
seller’s interest, residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, or eligible horizontal
residual interest may include adjustments to the amount of securitized assets for additions
or removals the sponsor expects to make before the closing date and adjustments to the
amount of outstanding investor ABS interests for expected increases and decreases of
those interests under the control of the sponsor.
(3) Record maintenance. A sponsor must retain the disclosures required in
paragraph (k)(1) of this section in its records and must provide the disclosure upon

590

request to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, until three
years after all ABS interests are no longer outstanding.
(l) Early amortization of all outstanding series. A sponsor that organizes a
revolving pool securitization that relies on this § __.5 to satisfy the risk retention
requirements of § __.3, does not violate the requirements of this part if its seller’s interest
falls below the level required by § __. 5 after the revolving pool securitization
commences early amortization, pursuant to the terms of the securitization transaction
documents, of all series of outstanding investor ABS interests, if:
(1) The sponsor was in full compliance with the requirements of this section on all
measurement dates specified in paragraph (c) of this section prior to the commencement
of early amortization;
(2) The terms of the seller’s interest continue to make it pari passu with or
subordinate in identical or varying amounts to each series of outstanding investor ABS
interests issued with respect to the allocation of all distributions and losses with respect to
the securitized assets;
(3) The terms of any horizontal interest relied upon by the sponsor pursuant to
paragraph (g) to offset the minimum seller’s interest amount continue to require the
interests to absorb losses in accordance with the terms of paragraph (h) or (i) of this
section, as applicable; and
(4) The revolving pool securitization issues no additional ABS interests after early
amortization is initiated to any person not a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor, either
at the time of issuance or during the amortization period.
§ __.6 Eligible ABCP conduits.

591

(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following additional definitions
apply:
100 percent liquidity coverage means an amount equal to the outstanding balance
of all ABCP issued by the conduit plus any accrued and unpaid interest without regard to
the performance of the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit and without regard to
any credit enhancement.
ABCP means asset-backed commercial paper that has a maturity at the time of
issuance not exceeding 397 days, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the
maturity of which is likewise limited.
ABCP conduit means an issuing entity with respect to ABCP.
Eligible ABCP conduit means an ABCP conduit, provided that:
(1) The ABCP conduit is bankruptcy remote or otherwise isolated for insolvency
purposes from the sponsor of the ABCP conduit and from any intermediate SPV;
(2) The ABS interests acquired by the ABCP conduit are:
(i) ABS interests collateralized solely by assets originated by an originator-seller
and by servicing assets;
(ii) Special units of beneficial interest (or similar ABS interests) in a trust or
special purpose vehicle that retains legal title to leased property underlying leases
originated by an originator-seller that were transferred to an intermediate SPV in
connection with a securitization collateralized solely by such leases and by servicing
assets;
(iii) ABS interests in a revolving pool securitization collateralized solely by assets
originated by an originator-seller and by servicing assets; or

592

(iv) ABS interests described in paragraphs (2)(i), (2)(ii), or (2)(iii) of this
definition that are collateralized, in whole or in part, by assets acquired by an originatorseller in a business combination that qualifies for business combination accounting under
GAAP, and, if collateralized in part, the remainder of such assets are assets described in
paragraphs (2)(i), (2)(ii), or (2)(iii) of this definition; and
(v) Acquired by the ABCP conduit in an initial issuance by or on behalf of an
intermediate SPV:
(A) Directly from the intermediate SPV,
(B) From an underwriter of the ABS interests issued by the intermediate SPV, or
(C) From another person who acquired the ABS interests directly from the
intermediate SPV;
(3) The ABCP conduit is collateralized solely by ABS interests acquired from
intermediate SPVs as described in paragraph (2) of this definition and servicing assets;
and
(4) A regulated liquidity provider has entered into a legally binding commitment
to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage (in the form of a lending facility, an asset
purchase agreement, a repurchase agreement, or other similar arrangement) to all the
ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit by lending to, purchasing ABCP issued by, or
purchasing assets from, the ABCP conduit in the event that funds are required to repay
maturing ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit. With respect to the 100 percent liquidity
coverage, in the event that the ABCP conduit is unable for any reason to repay maturing
ABCP issued by the issuing entity, the liquidity provider shall be obligated to pay an
amount equal to any shortfall, and the total amount that may be due pursuant to the 100

593

percent liquidity coverage shall be equal to 100 percent of the amount of the ABCP
outstanding at any time plus accrued and unpaid interest (amounts due pursuant to the
required liquidity coverage may not be subject to credit performance of the ABS interests
held by the ABCP conduit or reduced by the amount of credit support provided to the
ABCP conduit and liquidity support that only funds performing loans or receivables or
performing ABS interests does not meet the requirements of this section).
Intermediate SPV means a special purpose vehicle that:
(1) (i) Is a direct or indirect wholly-owned affiliate of the originator-seller; or
(ii) Has nominal equity owned by a trust or corporate service provider that
specializes in providing independent ownership of special purpose vehicles, and such
trust or corporate service provider is not affiliated with any other transaction parties;
(2) Is bankruptcy remote or otherwise isolated for insolvency purposes from the
eligible ABCP conduit and from each originator-seller and each majority-owned affiliate
in each case that, directly or indirectly, sells or transfers assets to such intermediate SPV;
(3) Acquires assets from the originator-seller that are originated by the originatorseller or acquired by the originator-seller in the acquisition of a business that qualifies for
business combination accounting under GAAP or acquires ABS interests issued by
another intermediate SPV of the originator-seller that are collateralized solely by such
assets; and
(4) Issues ABS interests collateralized solely by such assets, as applicable.
Originator-seller means an entity that originates assets and sells or transfers those
assets, directly or through a majority-owned affiliate, to an intermediate SPV, and
includes (except for the purposes of identifying the sponsorship and affiliation of an

594

intermediate SPV pursuant to this § __.6) any affiliate of the originator-seller that,
directly or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by or is under common
majority control with, the originator-seller. For purposes of this definition, majority
control means ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity, or ownership
of any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.
Regulated liquidity provider means:
(1) A depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813));
(2) A bank holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1841), or a subsidiary
thereof;
(3) A savings and loan holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1467a),
provided all or substantially all of the holding company’s activities are permissible for a
financial holding company under 12 U.S.C. 1843(k), or a subsidiary thereof; or
(4) A foreign bank whose home country supervisor (as defined in § 211.21 of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21)) has adopted capital standards
consistent with the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as
amended, and that is subject to such standards, or a subsidiary thereof.
(b) In general. An ABCP conduit sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirement
of § __.3 with respect to the issuance of ABCP by an eligible ABCP conduit in a
securitization transaction if, for each ABS interest the ABCP conduit acquires from an
intermediate SPV:

595

(1) An originator-seller of the intermediate SPV retains an economic interest in
the credit risk of the assets collateralizing the ABS interest acquired by the eligible ABCP
conduit in the amount and manner required under §§ __.4 or __.5; and
(2) The ABCP conduit sponsor:
(i) Approves each originator-seller permitted to sell or transfer assets, directly or
indirectly, to an intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit acquires ABS
interests;
(ii) Approves each intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit is
permitted to acquire ABS interests;
(iii) Establishes criteria governing the ABS interests, and the securitized assets
underlying the ABS interests, acquired by the ABCP conduit;
(iv) Administers the ABCP conduit by monitoring the ABS interests acquired by
the ABCP conduit and the assets supporting those ABS interests, arranging for debt
placement, compiling monthly reports, and ensuring compliance with the ABCP conduit
documents and with the ABCP conduit’s credit and investment policy; and
(v) Maintains and adheres to policies and procedures for ensuring that the
requirements in this paragraph (b) of this section have been met.
(c) Originator-seller compliance with risk retention. The use of the risk retention
option provided in this section by an ABCP conduit sponsor does not relieve the
originator-seller that sponsors ABS interests acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit from
such originator-seller’s obligation to comply with its own risk retention obligations under
this part.

596

(d) Disclosures. (1) Periodic disclosures to investors. An ABCP conduit sponsor
relying upon this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to each purchaser of
ABCP, before or contemporaneously with the first sale of ABCP to such purchaser and at
least monthly thereafter, to each holder of commercial paper issued by the ABCP
conduit, in writing, each of the following items of information, which shall be as of a date
not more than 60 days prior to date of first use with investors:
(i) The name and form of organization of the regulated liquidity provider that
provides liquidity coverage to the eligible ABCP conduit, including a description of the
material terms of such liquidity coverage, and notice of any failure to fund.
(ii) With respect to each ABS interest held by the ABCP conduit:
(A) The asset class or brief description of the underlying securitized assets;
(B) The standard industrial category code (SIC Code) for the originator-seller that
will retain (or has retained) pursuant to this section an interest in the securitization
transaction; and
(C) A description of the percentage amount of risk retention pursuant to the rule
by the originator- seller, and whether it is in the form of an eligible horizontal residual
interest, vertical interest, or revolving pool securitization seller’s interest, as applicable.
(2) Disclosures to regulators regarding originator-sellers. An ABCP conduit
sponsor relying upon this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, upon request, to
the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in writing, all of the
information required to be provided to investors in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and
the name and form of organization of each originator-seller that will retain (or has
retained) pursuant to this section an interest in the securitization transaction.

597

(e) Sale or transfer of ABS interests between eligible ABCP conduits. At any
time, an eligible ABCP conduit that acquired an ABS interest in accordance with the
requirements set forth in this section may transfer, and another eligible ABCP conduit
may acquire, such ABS interest, if the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The sponsors of both eligible ABCP conduits are in compliance with this
section; and
(2) The same regulated liquidity provider has entered into one or more legally
binding commitments to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage to all the ABCP issued
by both eligible ABCP conduits.
(f) Duty to comply. (1) The ABCP conduit sponsor shall be responsible for
compliance with this section.
(2) An ABCP conduit sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures that are reasonably
designed to monitor compliance by each originator-seller which is satisfying a risk
retention obligation in respect of ABS interests acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit
with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(ii) In the event that the ABCP conduit sponsor determines that an originatorseller no longer complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall:
(A) Promptly notify the holders of the ABCP, and upon request, the Commission
and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in writing of:
(1) The name and form of organization of any originator-seller that fails to retain
risk in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section and the amount of ABS

598

interests issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held by the ABCP
conduit;
(2) The name and form of organization of any originator-seller that hedges,
directly or indirectly through an intermediate SPV, its risk retention in violation of
paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the amount of ABS interests issued by an
intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held by the ABCP conduit; and
(3) Any remedial actions taken by the ABCP conduit sponsor or other party with
respect to such ABS interests; and
(B) Take other appropriate steps pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs
(b)(2)(iv) and (b)(2)(v) of this section which may include, as appropriate, curing any
breach of the requirements in this section, or removing from the eligible ABCP conduit
any ABS interest that does not comply with the requirements in this section.
§ ___.7 Commercial mortgage-backed securities.
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply:
Special servicer means, with respect to any securitization of commercial real
estate loans, any servicer that, upon the occurrence of one or more specified conditions in
the servicing agreement, has the right to service one or more assets in the transaction.
(b) Third-Party Purchaser. A sponsor may satisfy some or all of its risk retention
requirements under § __.3 with respect to a securitization transaction if a third party (or
any majority-owned affiliate thereof) purchases and holds for its own account an eligible
horizontal residual interest in the issuing entity in the same form, amount, and manner as
would be held by the sponsor under § __.4 and all of the following conditions are met:

599

(1) Number of third-party purchasers. At any time, there are no more than two
third-party purchasers of an eligible horizontal residual interest. If there are two thirdparty purchasers, each third-party purchaser’s interest must be pari passu with the other
third-party purchaser’s interest.
(2) Composition of collateral. The securitization transaction is collateralized
solely by commercial real estate loans and servicing assets.
(3) Source of funds. (i) Each third-party purchaser pays for the eligible horizontal
residual interest in cash at the closing of the securitization transaction.
(ii) No third-party purchaser obtains financing, directly or indirectly, for the
purchase of such interest from any other person that is a party to, or an affiliate of a party
to, the securitization transaction (including, but not limited to, the sponsor, depositor, or
servicer other than a special servicer affiliated with the third-party purchaser), other than
a person that is a party to the transaction solely by reason of being an investor.
(4) Third-party review. Each third-party purchaser conducts an independent
review of the credit risk of each securitized asset prior to the sale of the asset-backed
securities in the securitization transaction that includes, at a minimum, a review of the
underwriting standards, collateral, and expected cash flows of each commercial real
estate loan that is collateral for the asset-backed securities.
(5) Affiliation and control rights. (i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of
this section, no third-party purchaser is affiliated with any party to the securitization
transaction (including, but not limited to, the sponsor, depositor, or servicer) other than
investors in the securitization transaction.

600

(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, a third-party purchaser
may be affiliated with:
(A) The special servicer for the securitization transaction; or
(B) One or more originators of the securitized assets, as long as the assets
originated by the affiliated originator or originators collectively comprise less than 10
percent of the unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets included in the
securitization transaction at the cut-off date of the securitization transaction.
(6) Operating Advisor. The underlying securitization transaction documents shall
provide for the following:
(i) The appointment of an operating advisor (the Operating Advisor) that:
(A) Is not affiliated with other parties to the securitization transaction;
(B) Does not directly or indirectly have any financial interest in the securitization
transaction other than in fees from its role as Operating Advisor; and
(C) Is required to act in the best interest of, and for the benefit of, investors as a
collective whole;
(ii) Standards with respect to the Operating Advisor’s experience, expertise and
financial strength to fulfill its duties and responsibilities under the applicable transaction
documents over the life of the securitization transaction;
(iii) The terms of the Operating Advisor’s compensation with respect to the
securitization transaction;
(iv) When the eligible horizontal residual interest has been reduced by principal
payments, realized losses, and appraisal reduction amounts (which reduction amounts are
determined in accordance with the applicable transaction documents) to a principal

601

balance of 25 percent or less of its initial principal balance, the special servicer for the
securitized assets must consult with the Operating Advisor in connection with, and prior
to, any material decision in connection with its servicing of the securitized assets,
including, without limitation:
(A) Any material modification of, or waiver with respect to, any provision of a
loan agreement (including a mortgage, deed of trust, or other security agreement);
(B) Foreclosure upon or comparable conversion of the ownership of a property; or
(C) Any acquisition of a property.
(v) The Operating Advisor shall have adequate and timely access to information
and reports necessary to fulfill its duties under the transaction documents, including all
reports made available to holders of ABS interests and third-party purchasers, and shall
be responsible for:
(A) Reviewing the actions of the special servicer;
(B) Reviewing all reports provided by the special servicer to the issuing entity or
any holder of ABS interests;
(C) Reviewing for accuracy and consistency with the transaction documents
calculations made by the special servicer; and
(D) Issuing a report to investors (including any third-party purchasers) and the
issuing entity on a periodic basis concerning:
(1) Whether the Operating Advisor believes, in its sole discretion exercised in
good faith, that the special servicer is operating in compliance with any standard required
of the special servicer in the applicable transaction documents; and

602

(2) Which, if any, standards the Operating Advisor believes, in its sole discretion
exercised in good faith, the special servicer has failed to comply.
(vi) (A) The Operating Advisor shall have the authority to recommend that the
special servicer be replaced by a successor special servicer if the Operating Advisor
determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that:
(1) The special servicer has failed to comply with a standard required of the
special servicer in the applicable transaction documents; and
(2) Such replacement would be in the best interest of the investors as a collective
whole; and
(B) If a recommendation described in paragraph (b)(6)(vi)(A) of this section is
made, the special servicer shall be replaced upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the
outstanding principal balance of all ABS interests voting on the matter, with a minimum
of a quorum of ABS interests voting on the matter. For purposes of such vote, the
applicable transaction documents shall specify the quorum and may not specify a quorum
of more than the holders of 20 percent of the outstanding principal balance of all ABS
interests in the issuing entity, with such quorum including at least three ABS interest
holders that are not affiliated with each other.
(7) Disclosures. The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential
investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as
part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its
appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form
under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:

603

(i) The name and form of organization of each initial third-party purchaser that
acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization
transaction;
(ii) A description of each initial third-party purchaser’s experience in investing in
commercial mortgage-backed securities;
(iii) Any other information regarding each initial third-party purchaser or each
initial third-party purchaser’s retention of the eligible horizontal residual interest that is
material to investors in light of the circumstances of the particular securitization
transaction;
(iv) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS
interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding
amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of
the eligible horizontal residual interest that will be retained (or was retained) by each
initial third-party purchaser, as well as the amount of the purchase price paid by each
initial third-party purchaser for such interest;
(v) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS
interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding
amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of
the eligible horizontal residual interest in the securitization transaction that the sponsor
would have retained pursuant to § __.4 if the sponsor had relied on retaining an eligible
horizontal residual interest in that section to meet the requirements of § __.3 with respect
to the transaction;

604

(vi) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest
retained by each initial third-party purchaser, including the same information as is
required to be disclosed by sponsors retaining horizontal interests pursuant to § __.4;
(vii) The material terms of the applicable transaction documents with respect to
the Operating Advisor, including without limitation:
(A) The name and form of organization of the Operating Advisor;
(B) A description of any material conflict of interest or material potential conflict
of interest between the Operating Advisor and any other party to the transaction;
(C) The standards required by paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section and a description
of how the Operating Advisor satisfies each of the standards; and
(D) The terms of the Operating Advisor’s compensation under paragraph
(b)(6)(iii) of this section; and
(viii) The representations and warranties concerning the securitized assets, a
schedule of any securitized assets that are determined not to comply with such
representations and warranties, and what factors were used to make the determination
that such securitized assets should be included in the pool notwithstanding that the
securitized assets did not comply with such representations and warranties, such as
compensating factors or a determination that the exceptions were not material.
(8) Hedging, transfer and pledging. (i) General rule. Except as set forth in
paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section, each third-party purchaser and its affiliates must
comply with the hedging and other restrictions in § __.12 as if it were the retaining
sponsor with respect to the securitization transaction and had acquired the eligible
horizontal residual interest pursuant to § __.4; provided that, the hedging and other

605

restrictions in § __.12 shall not apply on or after the date that each CRE loan (as defined
in § ___.14) that serves as collateral for outstanding ABS interests has been defeased.
For purposes of this section, a loan is deemed to be defeased if:
(A) cash or cash equivalents of the types permitted for an eligible horizontal cash
reserve account pursuant to § __.4 whose maturity corresponds to the remaining debt
service obligations, have been pledged to the issuing entity as collateral for the loan and
are in such amounts and payable at such times as necessary to timely generate cash
sufficient to make all remaining debt service payments due on such loan; and
(B) the issuing entity has an obligation to release its lien on the loan.
(ii) Exceptions. (A) Transfer by initial third-party purchaser or sponsor. An initial
third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of
a securitization transaction in accordance with this section, or a sponsor that acquired an
eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction in
accordance with this section, may, on or after the date that is five years after the date of
the closing of the securitization transaction, transfer that interest to a subsequent thirdparty purchaser that complies with paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(C) of this section. The initial
third-party purchaser shall provide the sponsor with complete identifying information for
the subsequent third-party purchaser.
(B) Transfer by subsequent third-party purchaser. At any time, a subsequent thirdparty purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to this
section may transfer its interest to a different third-party purchaser that complies with
paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(C) of this section. The transferring third-party purchaser shall

606

provide the sponsor with complete identifying information for the acquiring third-party
purchaser.
(C) Requirements applicable to subsequent third-party purchasers. A subsequent
third-party purchaser is subject to all of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3)
through (b)(5), and (b)(8) of this section applicable to third-party purchasers, provided
that obligations under paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (b)(5), and (b)(8) of this section
that apply to initial third-party purchasers at or before the time of closing of the
securitization transaction shall apply to successor third-party purchasers at or before the
time of the transfer of the eligible horizontal residual interest to the successor third-party
purchaser.
(c) Duty to comply. (1) The retaining sponsor shall be responsible for compliance
with this section by itself and for compliance by each initial or subsequent third-party
purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest in the securitization
transaction.
(2) A sponsor relying on this section:
(A) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures to monitor each thirdparty purchaser’s compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through
(b)(5), and (b)(8) of this section; and
(B) In the event that the sponsor determines that a third-party purchaser no longer
complies with one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through
(b)(5), or (b)(8) of this section, shall promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders
of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction of such noncompliance by
such third-party purchaser.

607

§ __.8 Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation ABS.
(a) In general. A sponsor satisfies its risk retention requirement under this part if
the sponsor fully guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest on all ABS
interests issued by the issuing entity in the securitization transaction and is:
(1) The Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan
Mortgage Corporation operating under the conservatorship or receivership of the Federal
Housing Finance Agency pursuant to section 1367 of the Federal Housing Enterprises
Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4617) with capital support from
the United States; or
(2) Any limited-life regulated entity succeeding to the charter of either the Federal
National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
pursuant to section 1367(i) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and
Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4617(i)), provided that the entity is operating with
capital support from the United States.
(b) Certain provisions not applicable. The provisions of § __.12(b), (c), and (d)
shall not apply to a sponsor described in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, its
affiliates, or the issuing entity with respect to a securitization transaction for which the
sponsor has retained credit risk in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(c) Disclosure. A sponsor relying on this section shall provide to investors, in
written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention” and, upon request, to the Federal
Housing Finance Agency and the Commission, a description of the manner in which it
has met the credit risk retention requirements of this part.

608

§ ___.9 Open market CLOs.
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
CLO means a special purpose entity that:
(1) Issues debt and equity interests, and
(2) Whose assets consist primarily of loans that are securitized assets and
servicing assets.
CLO-eligible loan tranche means a term loan of a syndicated facility that meets
the criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
CLO manager means an entity that manages a CLO, which entity is registered as
an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (15 U.S.C.
80b-1 et seq.), or is an affiliate of such a registered investment adviser and itself is
managed by such registered investment adviser.
Commercial borrower means an obligor under a corporate credit obligation
(including a loan).
Initial loan syndication transaction means a transaction in which a loan is
syndicated to a group of lenders.
Lead arranger means, with respect to a CLO-eligible loan tranche, an institution
that:
(1) Is active in the origination, structuring and syndication of commercial loan
transactions (as defined in § __.14) and has played a primary role in the structuring,
underwriting and distribution on the primary market of the CLO-eligible loan tranche.
(2) Has taken an allocation of the funded portion of the syndicated credit facility
under the terms of the transaction that includes the CLO-eligible loan tranche of at least

609

20 percent of the aggregate principal balance at origination, and no other member (or
members affiliated with each other) of the syndication group that funded at origination
has taken a greater allocation; and
(3) Is identified in the applicable agreement governing the CLO-eligible loan
tranche; represents therein to the holders of the CLO-eligible loan tranche and to any
holders of participation interests in such CLO-eligible loan tranche that such lead
arranger satisfies the requirements of paragraph (1) of this definition and, at the time of
initial funding of the CLO-eligible tranche, will satisfy the requirements of paragraph (2)
of this definition; further represents therein (solely for the purpose of assisting such
holders to determine the eligibility of such CLO-eligible loan tranche to be held by an
open market CLO) that in the reasonable judgment of such lead arranger, the terms of
such CLO-eligible loan tranche are consistent with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)
and (3) of this section; and covenants therein to such holders that such lead arranger will
fulfill the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
Open market CLO means a CLO:
(1) Whose assets consist of senior, secured syndicated loans acquired by such
CLO directly from the sellers thereof in open market transactions and of servicing assets,
(2) That is managed by a CLO manager, and
(3) That holds less than 50 percent of its assets, by aggregate outstanding
principal amount, in loans syndicated by lead arrangers that are affiliates of the CLO or
the CLO manager or originated by originators that are affiliates of the CLO or the CLO
manager.
Open market transaction means:

610

(1) Either an initial loan syndication transaction or a secondary market transaction
in which a seller offers senior, secured syndicated loans to prospective purchasers in the
loan market on market terms on an arm’s length basis, which prospective purchasers
include, but are not limited to, entities that are not affiliated with the seller, or
(2) A reverse inquiry from a prospective purchaser of a senior, secured syndicated
loan through a dealer in the loan market to purchase a senior, secured syndicated loan to
be sourced by the dealer in the loan market.
Secondary market transaction means a purchase of a senior, secured syndicated
loan not in connection with an initial loan syndication transaction but in the secondary
market.
Senior, secured syndicated loan means a loan made to a commercial borrower
that:
(1) Is not subordinate in right of payment to any other obligation for borrowed
money of the commercial borrower,
(2) Is secured by a valid first priority security interest or lien in or on specified
collateral securing the commercial borrower’s obligations under the loan, and
(3) The value of the collateral subject to such first priority security interest or lien,
together with other attributes of the obligor (including, without limitation, its general
financial condition, ability to generate cash flow available for debt service and other
demands for that cash flow), is adequate (in the commercially reasonable judgment of the
CLO manager exercised at the time of investment) to repay the loan and to repay all other
indebtedness of equal seniority secured by such first priority security interest or lien in or
on the same collateral, and the CLO manager certifies, on or prior to each date that it

611

acquires a loan constituting part of a new CLO-eligible tranche, that it has policies and
procedures to evaluate the likelihood of repayment of loans acquired by the CLO and it
has followed such policies and procedures in evaluating each CLO-eligible loan tranche.
(b) In general. A sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirements of § __.3 with
respect to an open market CLO transaction if:
(1) The open market CLO does not acquire or hold any assets other than CLOeligible loan tranches that meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and
servicing assets;
(2) The governing documents of such open market CLO require that, at all times,
the assets of the open market CLO consist of senior, secured syndicated loans that are
CLO-eligible loan tranches and servicing assets;
(3) The open market CLO does not invest in ABS interests or in credit derivatives
other than hedging transactions that are servicing assets to hedge risks of the open market
CLO;
(4) All purchases of CLO-eligible loan tranches and other assets by the open
market CLO issuing entity or through a warehouse facility used to accumulate the loans
prior to the issuance of the CLO’s ABS interests are made in open market transactions on
an arms-length basis;
(5) The CLO manager of the open market CLO is not entitled to receive any
management fee or gain on sale at the time the open market CLO issues its ABS interests.
(c) CLO-eligible loan tranche. To qualify as a CLO-eligible loan tranche, a term
loan of a syndicated credit facility to a commercial borrower must have the following
features:

612

(1) A minimum of 5 percent of the face amount of the CLO-eligible loan tranche
is retained by the lead arranger thereof until the earliest of the repayment, maturity,
involuntary and unscheduled acceleration, payment default, or bankruptcy default of such
CLO-eligible loan tranche, provided that such lead arranger complies with limitations on
hedging, transferring and pledging in § __.12 with respect to the interest retained by the
lead arranger.
(2) Lender voting rights within the credit agreement and any intercreditor or other
applicable agreements governing such CLO-eligible loan tranche are defined so as to give
holders of the CLO-eligible loan tranche consent rights with respect to, at minimum, any
material waivers and amendments of such applicable documents, including but not
limited to, adverse changes to the calculation or payments of amounts due to the holders
of the CLO-eligible tranche, alterations to pro rata provisions, changes to voting
provisions, and waivers of conditions precedent; and
(3) The pro rata provisions, voting provisions, and similar provisions applicable
to the security associated with such CLO-eligible loan tranches under the CLO credit
agreement and any intercreditor or other applicable agreements governing such CLOeligible loan tranches are not materially less advantageous to the holder(s) of such CLOeligible tranche than the terms of other tranches of comparable seniority in the broader
syndicated credit facility.
(d) Disclosures. A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be
provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the assetbacked securities in the securitization transaction and at least annually with respect to the
information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section and, upon request, to the

613

Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure
in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(1) Open market CLOs. A complete list of every asset held by an open market
CLO (or before the CLO’s closing, in a warehouse facility in anticipation of transfer into
the CLO at closing), including the following information:
(i) The full legal name, Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) category code,
and legal entity identifier (LEI) issued by a utility endorsed or otherwise governed by the
Global LEI Regulatory Oversight Committee or the Global LEI Foundation (if an LEI
has been obtained by the obligor) of the obligor of the loan or asset;
(ii) The full name of the specific loan tranche held by the CLO;
(iii) The face amount of the entire loan tranche held by the CLO, and the face
amount of the portion thereof held by the CLO;
(iv) The price at which the loan tranche was acquired by the CLO; and
(v) For each loan tranche, the full legal name of the lead arranger subject to the
sales and hedging restrictions of § __.12 and the; and
(2) CLO manager. The full legal name and form of organization of the CLO
manager.
§ __.10 Qualified tender option bonds.
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Municipal security or municipal securities shall have the same meaning as the
term “municipal securities” in Section 3(a)(29) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(29)) and any rules promulgated pursuant to such section.

614

Qualified tender option bond entity means an issuing entity with respect to tender
option bonds for which each of the following applies:
(1) Such entity is collateralized solely by servicing assets and by municipal
securities that have the same municipal issuer and the same underlying obligor or source
of payment (determined without regard to any third-party credit enhancement), and such
municipal securities are not subject to substitution.
(2) Such entity issues no securities other than:
(i) A single class of tender option bonds with a preferred variable return payable
out of capital that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, and
(ii) One or more residual equity interests that, in the aggregate, are entitled to all
remaining income of the issuing entity.
(iii) The types of securities referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) must constitute assetbacked securities.
(3) The municipal securities held as assets by such entity are issued in
compliance with Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
“IRS Code”, 26 U.S.C. 103), such that the interest payments made on those securities are
excludable from the gross income of the owners under Section 103 of the IRS Code.
(4) The terms of all of the securities issued by the entity are structured so that all
holders of such securities who are eligible to exclude interest received on such securities
will be able to exclude that interest from gross income pursuant to Section 103 of the IRS
Code or as “exempt-interest dividends” pursuant to Section 852(b)(5) of the IRS Code
(26 U.S.C. 852(b)(5)) in the case of regulated investment companies under the
Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.

615

(5) Such entity has a legally binding commitment from a regulated liquidity
provider as defined in § ___.6(a), to provide a 100 percent guarantee or liquidity
coverage with respect to all of the issuing entity’s outstanding tender option bonds.
(6) Such entity qualifies for monthly closing elections pursuant to IRS Revenue
Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Tender option bond means a security which has features which entitle the holders
to tender such bonds to the issuing entity for purchase at any time upon no more than 397
days’ notice, for a purchase price equal to the approximate amortized cost of the security,
plus accrued interest, if any, at the time of tender.
(b) Risk retention options. Notwithstanding anything in this section, the sponsor
with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds may retain an eligible vertical interest
or eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the
requirements of § __.4. In order to satisfy its risk retention requirements under this
section, the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified
tender option bond entity may retain:
(1) An eligible vertical interest or an eligible horizontal residual interest, or any
combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of § __.4; or
(2) An interest that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this
section; or
(3) A municipal security that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of
this section; or

616

(4) Any combination of interests and securities described in paragraphs (b)(1)
through (b)(3) of this section such that the sum of the percentages held in each form
equals at least five.
(c) Tender option termination event. The sponsor with respect to an issuance of
tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may retain an interest that
upon issuance meets the requirements of an eligible horizontal residual interest but that
upon the occurrence of a “tender option termination event” as defined in Section 4.01(5)
of IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time will
meet the requirements of an eligible vertical interest.
(d) Retention of a municipal security outside of the qualified tender option bond
entity. The sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified
tender option bond entity may satisfy its risk retention requirements under this Section by
holding municipal securities from the same issuance of municipal securities deposited in
the qualified tender option bond entity, the face value of which retained municipal
securities is equal to 5 percent of the face value of the municipal securities deposited in
the qualified tender option bond entity.
(e) Disclosures. The sponsor shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential
investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as
part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its
appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form
under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(1) The name and form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity;

617

(2) A description of the form and subordination features of such retained interest
in accordance with the disclosure obligations in § ___.4(c);
(3) To the extent any portion of the retained interest is claimed by the sponsor as
an eligible horizontal residual interest (including any interest held in compliance with §
__.10(c)), the fair value of that interest (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all
of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and as a dollar amount);
(4) To the extent any portion of the retained interest is claimed by the sponsor as
an eligible vertical interest (including any interest held in compliance with § __.10(c)),
the percentage of ABS interests issued represented by the eligible vertical interest; and
(5) To the extent any portion of the retained interest claimed by the sponsor is a
municipal security held outside of the qualified tender option bond entity, the name and
form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity, the identity of the issuer
of the municipal securities, the face value of the municipal securities deposited into the
qualified tender option bond entity, and the face value of the municipal securities retained
by the sponsor or its majority-owned affiliates and subject to the transfer and hedging
prohibition.
(f) Prohibitions on Hedging and Transfer. The prohibitions on transfer and
hedging set forth in § __.12, apply to any interests or municipal securities retained by the
sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option
bond entity pursuant to of this section.
SUBPART C—TRANSFER OF RISK RETENTION
§ __.11 Allocation of risk retention to an originator.

618

(a) In general. A sponsor choosing to retain an eligible vertical interest or an
eligible horizontal residual interest (including an eligible horizontal cash reserve
account), or combination thereof under § __.4, with respect to a securitization transaction
may offset the amount of its risk retention requirements under § __.4 by the amount of
the eligible interests, respectively, acquired by an originator of one or more of the
securitized assets if:
(1) At the closing of the securitization transaction:
(i) The originator acquires the eligible interest from the sponsor and retains such
interest in the same manner and proportion (as between horizontal and vertical interests)
as the sponsor under § __.4, as such interest was held prior to the acquisition by the
originator;
(ii) The ratio of the percentage of eligible interests acquired and retained by the
originator to the percentage of eligible interests otherwise required to be retained by the
sponsor pursuant to § __.4, does not exceed the ratio of:
(A) The unpaid principal balance of all the securitized assets originated by the
originator; to
(B) The unpaid principal balance of all the securitized assets in the securitization
transaction;
(iii) The originator acquires and retains at least 20 percent of the aggregate risk
retention amount otherwise required to be retained by the sponsor pursuant to § __.4; and
(iv) The originator purchases the eligible interests from the sponsor at a price that
is equal, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, to the amount by which the sponsor’s required risk

619

retention is reduced in accordance with this section, by payment to the sponsor in the
form of:
(A) Cash; or
(B) A reduction in the price received by the originator from the sponsor or
depositor for the assets sold by the originator to the sponsor or depositor for inclusion in
the pool of securitized assets.
(2) Disclosures. In addition to the disclosures required pursuant to § __.4(c), the
sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of
time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction
and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any,
in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, the name and form of
organization of any originator that will acquire and retain (or has acquired and retained)
an interest in the transaction pursuant to this section, including a description of the form
and amount (expressed as a percentage and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in
the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) and nature
(e.g., senior or subordinated) of the interest, as well as the method of payment for such
interest under paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section.
(3) Hedging, transferring and pledging. The originator and each of its affiliates
complies with the hedging and other restrictions in § __.12 with respect to the interests
retained by the originator pursuant to this section as if it were the retaining sponsor and
was required to retain the interest under subpart B of this part.
(b) Duty to comply. (1) The retaining sponsor shall be responsible for compliance
with this section.

620

(2) A retaining sponsor relying on this section:
(A) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures that are reasonably
designed to monitor the compliance by each originator that is allocated a portion of the
sponsor’s risk retention obligations with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3)
of this section; and
(B) In the event the sponsor determines that any such originator no longer
complies with any of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section,
shall promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the ABS interests issued in
the securitization transaction of such noncompliance by such originator.
§ __.12 Hedging, transfer and financing prohibitions.
(a) Transfer. Except as permitted by § __.7(b)(8), and subject to § __.5, a
retaining sponsor may not sell or otherwise transfer any interest or assets that the sponsor
is required to retain pursuant to subpart B of this part to any person other than an entity
that is and remains a majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor and each such majorityowned affiliate shall be subject to the same restrictions.
(b) Prohibited hedging by sponsor and affiliates. A retaining sponsor and its
affiliates may not purchase or sell a security, or other financial instrument, or enter into
an agreement, derivative or other position, with any other person if:
(1) Payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement,
derivative, or position are materially related to the credit risk of one or more particular
ABS interests that the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is
required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this

621

part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that collateralize the asset-backed
securities issued in the securitization transaction; and
(2) The security, instrument, agreement, derivative, or position in any way
reduces or limits the financial exposure of the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned
affiliates) to the credit risk of one or more of the particular ABS interests that the
retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with
respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part or one or more of
the particular securitized assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the
securitization transaction.
(c) Prohibited hedging by issuing entity. The issuing entity in a securitization
transaction may not purchase or sell a security or other financial instrument, or enter into
an agreement, derivative or position, with any other person if:
(1) Payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement,
derivative or position are materially related to the credit risk of one or more particular
ABS interests that the retaining sponsor for the transaction (or any of its majority-owned
affiliates) is required to retain with respect to the securitization transaction pursuant to
subpart B of this part; and
(2) The security, instrument, agreement, derivative, or position in any way
reduces or limits the financial exposure of the retaining sponsor (or any of its majorityowned affiliates) to the credit risk of one or more of the particular ABS interests that the
sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain pursuant to subpart
B of this part.

622

(d) Permitted hedging activities. The following activities shall not be considered
prohibited hedging activities under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section:
(1) Hedging the interest rate risk (which does not include the specific interest rate
risk, known as spread risk, associated with the ABS interest that is otherwise considered
part of the credit risk) or foreign exchange risk arising from one or more of the particular
ABS interests required to be retained by the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned
affiliates) under subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets
that underlie the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction; or
(2) Purchasing or selling a security or other financial instrument or entering into
an agreement, derivative, or other position with any third party where payments on the
security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative, or position are
based, directly or indirectly, on an index of instruments that includes asset-backed
securities if:
(i) Any class of ABS interests in the issuing entity that were issued in connection
with the securitization transaction and that are included in the index represents no more
than 10 percent of the dollar-weighted average (or corresponding weighted average in the
currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all instruments included
in the index; and
(ii) All classes of ABS interests in all issuing entities that were issued in
connection with any securitization transaction in which the sponsor (or any of its
majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain an interest pursuant to subpart B of this
part and that are included in the index represent, in the aggregate, no more than
20 percent of the dollar-weighted average (or corresponding weighted average in the

623

currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all instruments included
in the index.
(e) Prohibited non-recourse financing. Neither a retaining sponsor nor any of its
affiliates may pledge as collateral for any obligation (including a loan, repurchase
agreement, or other financing transaction) any ABS interest that the sponsor is required to
retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part unless
such obligation is with full recourse to the sponsor or affiliate, respectively.
(f) Duration of the hedging and transfer restrictions. (1) General rule. Except as
provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant
to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire on or after the date that is the latest
of:
(i) The date on which the total unpaid principal balance (if applicable) of the
securitized assets that collateralize the securitization transaction has been reduced to 33
percent of the total unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets as of the cut-off date
of the securitization transaction;
(ii) The date on which the total unpaid principal obligations under the ABS
interests issued in the securitization transaction has been reduced to 33 percent of the
total unpaid principal obligations of the ABS interests at closing of the securitization
transaction; or
(iii) Two years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction.
(2) Securitizations of residential mortgages. (i) If all of the assets that collateralize
a securitization transaction subject to risk retention under this part are residential

624

mortgages, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
section shall expire on or after the date that is the later of:
(A) Five years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction; or
(B) The date on which the total unpaid principal balance of the residential
mortgages that collateralize the securitization transaction has been reduced to 25 percent
of the total unpaid principal balance of such residential mortgages at the closing of the
securitization transaction.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, the prohibitions on sale
and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire with respect to
the sponsor of a securitization transaction described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section
on or after the date that is seven years after the date of the closing of the securitization
transaction.
(3) Conservatorship or receivership of sponsor. A conservator or receiver of the
sponsor (or any other person holding risk retention pursuant to this part) of a
securitization transaction is permitted to sell or hedge any economic interest in the
securitization transaction if the conservator or receiver has been appointed pursuant to
any provision of federal or State law (or regulation promulgated thereunder) that provides
for the appointment of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or an agency or
instrumentality of the United States or of a State as conservator or receiver, including
without limitation any of the following authorities:
(i) 12 U.S.C. 1811;
(ii) 12 U.S.C. 1787;
(iii) 12 U.S.C. 4617; or

625

(iv) 12 U.S.C. 5382.
(4) Revolving pool securitizations. The provisions of paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2)
are not available to sponsors of revolving pool securitizations with respect to the forms of
risk retention specified in § __.5.
SUBPART D—EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS
§ ___.13 Exemption for qualified residential mortgages.
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Currently performing means the borrower in the mortgage transaction is not
currently thirty (30) days or more past due, in whole or in part, on the mortgage
transaction.
Qualified residential mortgage means a “qualified mortgage” as defined in section
129C of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.1639c) and regulations issued thereunder, as
amended from time to time.
(b) Exemption. A sponsor shall be exempt from the risk retention requirements in
subpart B of this part with respect to any securitization transaction, if:
(1) All of the assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities are qualified
residential mortgages or servicing assets;
(2) None of the assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities are assetbacked securities;
(3) At the closing of the securitization transaction, each qualified residential
mortgage collateralizing the asset-backed securities is currently performing; and
(4)(i) The depositor with respect to the securitization transaction certifies that it
has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the

626

process for ensuring that all assets that collateralize the asset-backed security are
qualified residential mortgages or servicing assets and has concluded that its internal
supervisory controls are effective; and
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor’s internal supervisory
controls must be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security in reliance on
this section, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing
the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification
described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period
of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request,
to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(c) Repurchase of loans subsequently determined to be non-qualified after
closing. A sponsor that has relied on the exemption provided in paragraph (b) of this
section with respect to a securitization transaction shall not lose such exemption with
respect to such transaction if, after closing of the securitization transaction, it is
determined that one or more of the residential mortgage loans collateralizing the assetbacked securities does not meet all of the criteria to be a qualified residential mortgage
provided that:
(1) The depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in
paragraph (b)(4) of this section;
(2) The sponsor repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least
equal to the remaining aggregate unpaid principal balance and accrued interest on the

627

loan(s) no later than 90 days after the determination that the loans do not satisfy the
requirements to be a qualified residential mortgage; and
(3) The sponsor promptly notifies, or causes to be notified, the holders of the
asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in
such securitization transaction that is (or are) required to be repurchased by the sponsor
pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, including the amount of such repurchased
loan(s) and the cause for such repurchase.
§ __.14 Definitions applicable to qualifying commercial loans, qualifying
commercial real estate loans, and qualifying automobile loans.
The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ __.15 through __.18:
Appraisal Standards Board means the board of the Appraisal Foundation that
develops, interprets, and amends the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal
Practice (USPAP), establishing generally accepted standards for the appraisal profession.
Automobile loan:
(1) Means any loan to an individual to finance the purchase of, and that is secured
by a first lien on, a passenger car or other passenger vehicle, such as a minivan, van,
sport-utility vehicle, pickup truck, or similar light truck for personal, family, or household
use; and
(2) Does not include any:
(i) Loan to finance fleet sales;
(ii) Personal cash loan secured by a previously purchased automobile;
(iii) Loan to finance the purchase of a commercial vehicle or farm equipment that
is not used for personal, family, or household purposes;

628

(iv) Lease financing;
(v) Loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle with a salvage title; or
(vi) Loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle intended to be used for scrap or
parts.
Combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratio means, at the time of origination, the sum
of the principal balance of a first-lien mortgage loan on the property, plus the principal
balance of any junior-lien mortgage loan that, to the creditor’s knowledge, would exist at
the closing of the transaction and that is secured by the same property, divided by:
(1) For acquisition funding, the lesser of the purchase price or the estimated
market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set
forth in § __.17(a)(2)(ii); or
(2) For refinancing, the estimated market value of the real property based on an
appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § __.17(a)(2)(ii).
Commercial loan means a secured or unsecured loan to a company or an
individual for business purposes, other than any:
(1) Loan to purchase or refinance a one-to-four family residential property;
(2) Commercial real estate loan.
Commercial real estate (CRE) loan means
(1) A loan secured by a property with five or more single family units, or by
nonfarm nonresidential real property, the primary source (50 percent or more) of
repayment for which is expected to be:
(i) The proceeds of the sale, refinancing, or permanent financing of the property;
or

629

(ii) Rental income associated with the property;
(2) Loans secured by improved land if the obligor owns the fee interest in the land
and the land is leased to a third party who owns all improvements on the land, and the
improvements are nonresidential or residential with five or more single family units; and
(3) Does not include:
(i) A land development and construction loan (including 1- to 4-family residential
or commercial construction loans);
(ii) Any other land loan; or
(iii) An unsecured loan to a developer.
Debt service coverage (DSC) ratio means:
(1) For qualifying leased CRE loans, qualifying multi-family loans, and other
CRE loans:
(i) The annual NOI less the annual replacement reserve of the CRE property at the
time of origination of the CRE loan(s) divided by
(ii) The sum of the borrower’s annual payments for principal and interest
(calculated at the fully-indexed rate) on any debt obligation.
(2) For commercial loans:
(i) The borrower’s EBITDA as of the most recently completed fiscal year divided
by
(ii) The sum of the borrower’s annual payments for principal and interest on all
debt obligations.
Debt to income (DTI) ratio means the borrower’s total debt, including the
monthly amount due on the automobile loan, divided by the borrower’s monthly income.

630

Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) means
the annual income of a business before expenses for interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization are deducted, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Environmental risk assessment means a process for determining whether a
property is contaminated or exposed to any condition or substance that could result in
contamination that has an adverse effect on the market value of the property or the
realization of the collateral value.
First lien means a lien or encumbrance on property that has priority over all other
liens or encumbrances on the property.
Junior lien means a lien or encumbrance on property that is lower in priority
relative to other liens or encumbrances on the property.
Leverage ratio means the borrower’s total debt divided by the borrower’s
EBITDA.
Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio means, at the time of origination, the principal balance
of a first-lien mortgage loan on the property divided by:
(1) For acquisition funding, the lesser of the purchase price or the estimated
market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set
forth in § __.17(a)(2)(ii); or
(2) For refinancing, the estimated market value of the real property based on an
appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § __.17(a)(2)(ii).
Model year means the year determined by the manufacturer and reflected on the
vehicle's Motor Vehicle Title as part of the vehicle description.

631

Net operating income (NOI) refers to the income a CRE property generates for
the owner after all expenses have been deducted for federal income tax purposes, except
for depreciation, debt service expenses, and federal and state income taxes, and excluding
any unusual and nonrecurring items of income.
Operating affiliate means an affiliate of a borrower that is a lessor or similar party
with respect to the commercial real estate securing the loan.
Payments-in-kind means payments of accrued interest that are not paid in cash
when due, and instead are paid by increasing the principal balance of the loan or by
providing equity in the borrowing company.
Purchase money security interest means a security interest in property that secures
the obligation of the obligor incurred as all or part of the price of the property.
Purchase price means the amount paid by the borrower for the vehicle net of any
incentive payments or manufacturer cash rebates.
Qualified tenant means:
(1) A tenant with a lease who has satisfied all obligations with respect to the
property in a timely manner; or
(2) A tenant who originally had a lease that subsequently expired and currently is
leasing the property on a month-to-month basis, has occupied the property for at least
three years prior to the date of origination, and has satisfied all obligations with respect to
the property in a timely manner.
Qualifying leased CRE loan means a CRE loan secured by commercial nonfarm
real property, other than a multi-family property or a hotel, inn, or similar property:

632

(1) That is occupied by one or more qualified tenants pursuant to a lease
agreement with a term of no less than one (1) month; and
(2) Where no more than 20 percent of the aggregate gross revenue of the property
is payable from one or more tenants who:
(i) Are subject to a lease that will terminate within six months following the date
of origination; or
(ii) Are not qualified tenants.
Qualifying multi-family loan means a CRE loan secured by any residential
property (excluding a hotel, motel, inn, hospital, nursing home, or other similar facility
where dwellings are not leased to residents):
(1) That consists of five or more dwelling units (including apartment buildings,
condominiums, cooperatives and other similar structures) primarily for residential use;
and
(2) Where at least 75 percent of the NOI is derived from residential rents and
tenant amenities (including income from parking garages, health or swim clubs, and dry
cleaning), and not from other commercial uses.
Rental income means:
(1) Income derived from a lease or other occupancy agreement between the
borrower or an operating affiliate of the borrower and a party which is not an affiliate of
the borrower for the use of real property or improvements serving as collateral for the
applicable loan; and

633

(2) Other income derived from hotel, motel, dormitory, nursing home, assisted
living, mini-storage warehouse or similar properties that are used primarily by parties that
are not affiliates or employees of the borrower or its affiliates.
Replacement reserve means the monthly capital replacement or maintenance
amount based on the property type, age, construction and condition of the property that is
adequate to maintain the physical condition and NOI of the property.
Salvage title means a form of vehicle title branding, which notes that the vehicle
has been severely damaged and/or deemed a total loss and uneconomical to repair by an
insurance company that paid a claim on the vehicle.
Total debt, with respect to a borrower, means:
(1) In the case of an automobile loan, the sum of:
(i) All monthly housing payments (rent- or mortgage-related, including property
taxes, insurance and home owners association fees); and
(ii) Any of the following that is dependent upon the borrower’s income for
payment:
(A) Monthly payments on other debt and lease obligations, such as credit card
loans or installment loans, including the monthly amount due on the automobile loan;
(B) Estimated monthly amortizing payments for any term debt, debts with other
than monthly payments and debts not in repayment (such as deferred student loans,
interest-only loans); and
(C) Any required monthly alimony, child support or court-ordered payments; and

634

(2) In the case of a commercial loan, the outstanding balance of all long-term debt
(obligations that have a remaining maturity of more than one year) and the current
portion of all debt that matures in one year or less.
Total liabilities ratio means the borrower’s total liabilities divided by the sum of
the borrower’s total liabilities and equity, less the borrower’s intangible assets, with each
component determined in accordance with GAAP.
Trade-in allowance means the amount a vehicle purchaser is given as a credit at
the purchase of a vehicle for the fair exchange of the borrower’s existing vehicle to
compensate the dealer for some portion of the vehicle purchase price, not to exceed the
highest trade-in value of the existing vehicle, as determined by a nationally recognized
automobile pricing agency and based on the manufacturer, year, model, features, mileage,
and condition of the vehicle, less the payoff balance of any outstanding debt
collateralized by the existing vehicle.
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP) means generally
accepted standards for professional appraisal practice issued by the Appraisal Standards
Board of the Appraisal Foundation.
§ __.15 Qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile
loans.
(a) General exception for qualifying assets. Commercial loans, commercial real
estate loans, and automobile loans that are securitized through a securitization transaction
shall be subject to a 0 percent risk retention requirement under subpart B, provided that
the following conditions are met:

635

(1) The assets meet the underwriting standards set forth in §§ __.16 (qualifying
commercial loans), __.17 (qualifying CRE loans), or __.18 (qualifying automobile loans)
of this part, as applicable;
(2) The securitization transaction is collateralized solely by loans of the same
asset class and by servicing assets;
(3) The securitization transaction does not permit reinvestment periods; and
(4) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a
reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities of the issuing entity,
and, upon request, to the Commission, and to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if
any, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, a description of the
manner in which the sponsor determined the aggregate risk retention requirement for the
securitization transaction after including qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE
loans, or qualifying automobile loans with 0 percent risk retention.
(b) Risk retention requirement. For any securitization transaction described in
paragraph (a) of this section, the percentage of risk retention required under § __.3(a) is
reduced by the percentage evidenced by the ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the
qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans (as
applicable) to the total unpaid principal balance of commercial loans, CRE loans, or
automobile loans (as applicable) that are included in the pool of assets collateralizing the
asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction (the qualifying
asset ratio); provided that:

636

(1) The qualifying asset ratio is measured as of the cut-off date or similar date for
establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed
securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction;
(2) If the qualifying asset ratio would exceed 50 percent, the qualifying asset
ratio shall be deemed to be 50 percent; and
(3) The disclosure required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section also includes
descriptions of the qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, and qualifying
automobile loans (qualifying assets) and descriptions of the assets that are not qualifying
assets, and the material differences between the group of qualifying assets and the group
of assets that are not qualifying assets with respect to the composition of each group’s
loan balances, loan terms, interest rates, borrower credit information, and characteristics
of any loan collateral.
(c) Exception for securitizations of qualifying assets only. Notwithstanding other
provisions of this section, the risk retention requirements of subpart B of this part shall
not apply to securitization transactions where the transaction is collateralized solely by
servicing assets and either qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or
qualifying automobile loans.
(d) Record maintenance. A sponsor must retain the disclosures required in
paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the certifications required in §§ __.16(a)(8),
__.17(a)(10), and__.18(a)(8), as applicable, in its records until three years after all ABS
interests issued in the securitization are no longer outstanding. The sponsor must provide
the disclosures and certifications upon request to the Commission and the sponsor’s
appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.

637

§ __.16 Underwriting standards for qualifying commercial loans.
(a) Underwriting, product and other standards. (1) Prior to origination of the
commercial loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented the financial condition of the borrower:
(A) As of the end of the borrower’s two most recently completed fiscal years; and
(B) During the period, if any, since the end of its most recently completed fiscal
year;
(ii) Conducted an analysis of the borrower’s ability to service its overall debt
obligations during the next two years, based on reasonable projections;
(iii) Determined that, based on the previous two years’ actual performance, the
borrower had:
(A) A total liabilities ratio of 50 percent or less;
(B) A leverage ratio of 3.0 or less; and
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater;
(iv) Determined that, based on the two years of projections, which include the
new debt obligation, following the closing date of the loan, the borrower will have:
(A) A total liabilities ratio of 50 percent or less;
(B) A leverage ratio of 3.0 or less; and
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater.
(2) Prior to, upon or promptly following the inception of the loan, the originator:
(i) If the loan is originated on a secured basis, obtains a perfected security interest
(by filing, title notation or otherwise) or, in the case of real property, a recorded lien, on
all of the property pledged to collateralize the loan; and

638

(ii) If the loan documents indicate the purpose of the loan is to finance the
purchase of tangible or intangible property, or to refinance such a loan, obtains a first lien
on the property.
(3) The loan documentation for the commercial loan includes covenants that:
(i) Require the borrower to provide to the servicer of the commercial loan the
borrower’s financial statements and supporting schedules on an ongoing basis, but not
less frequently than quarterly;
(ii) Prohibit the borrower from retaining or entering into a debt arrangement that
permits payments-in-kind;
(iii) Impose limits on:
(A) The creation or existence of any other security interest or lien with respect to
any of the borrower’s property that serves as collateral for the loan;
(B) The transfer of any of the borrower’s assets that serve as collateral for the
loan; and
(C) Any change to the name, location or organizational structure of the borrower,
or any other party that pledges collateral for the loan;
(iv) Require the borrower and any other party that pledges collateral for the loan
to:
(A) Maintain insurance that protects against loss on the collateral for the
commercial loan at least up to the amount of the loan, and that names the originator or
any subsequent holder of the loan as an additional insured or loss payee;
(B) Pay taxes, charges, fees, and claims, where non-payment might give rise to a
lien on any collateral;

639

(C) Take any action required to perfect or protect the security interest and first
lien (as applicable) of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan in any collateral
for the commercial loan or the priority thereof, and to defend any collateral against
claims adverse to the lender’s interest;
(D) Permit the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, and the servicer of
the loan, to inspect any collateral for the commercial loan and the books and records of
the borrower; and
(E) Maintain the physical condition of any collateral for the commercial loan.
(4) Loan payments required under the loan agreement are:
(i) Based on level monthly payments of principal and interest (at the fully indexed
rate) that fully amortize the debt over a term that does not exceed five years from the date
of origination; and
(ii) To be made no less frequently than quarterly over a term that does not exceed
five years.
(5) The primary source of repayment for the loan is revenue from the business
operations of the borrower.
(6) The loan was funded within the six (6) months prior to the cutoff date of the
securitization transaction.
(7) At the cutoff date of the securitization transaction, all payments due on the
loan are contractually current.
(8)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the
effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring
that all qualifying commercial loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that

640

reduce the sponsor’s risk retention requirement under § __.15 meet all of the
requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section and has
concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor’s internal supervisory
controls referenced in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each
issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or
similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such assetbacked security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification
described in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period
of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request,
to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(b) Cure or buy-back requirement. If a sponsor has relied on the exception
provided in § ___.15 with respect to a qualifying commercial loan and it is subsequently
determined that the loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1)
through (a)(7) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with
respect to the commercial loan if the depositor complied with the certification
requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(8) of this section and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs
(a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section is not material; or
(2) No later than 90 days after the determination that the loan does not meet one
or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section, the
sponsor:

641

(i) Effectuates cure, establishing conformity of the loan to the unmet
requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the
remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of
repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section,
the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed
securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such
securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor
pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such
loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ __.17 Underwriting standards for qualifying CRE loans.
(a) Underwriting, product and other standards. (1) The CRE loan must be
secured by the following:
(i) An enforceable first lien, documented and recorded appropriately pursuant to
applicable law, on the commercial real estate and improvements;
(ii)(A) An assignment of:
(1) Leases and rents and other occupancy agreements related to the commercial
real estate or improvements or the operation thereof for which the borrower or an
operating affiliate is a lessor or similar party and all payments under such leases and
occupancy agreements; and
(2) All franchise, license and concession agreements related to the commercial
real estate or improvements or the operation thereof for which the borrower or an

642

operating affiliate is a lessor, licensor, concession granter or similar party and all
payments under such other agreements, whether the assignments described in this
paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A)(2) are absolute or are stated to be made to the extent permitted by
the agreements governing the applicable franchise, license or concession agreements;
(B) An assignment of all other payments due to the borrower or due to any
operating affiliate in connection with the operation of the property described in paragraph
(a)(1)(i) of this section; and
(C) The right to enforce the agreements described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of
this section and the agreements under which payments under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of
this section are due against, and collect amounts due from, each lessee, occupant or other
obligor whose payments were assigned pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) or
(a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section upon a breach by the borrower of any of the terms of, or the
occurrence of any other event of default (however denominated) under, the loan
documents relating to such CRE loan; and
(iii) A security interest:
(A) In all interests of the borrower and any applicable operating affiliate in all
tangible and intangible personal property of any kind, in or used in the operation of or in
connection with, pertaining to, arising from, or constituting, any of the collateral
described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section; and
(B) In the form of a perfected security interest if the security interest in such
property can be perfected by the filing of a financing statement, fixture filing, or similar
document pursuant to the law governing the perfection of such security interest;
(2) Prior to origination of the CRE loan, the originator:

643

(i) Verified and documented the current financial condition of the borrower and
each operating affiliate;
(ii) Obtained a written appraisal of the real property securing the loan that:
(A) Had an effective date not more than six months prior to the origination date of
the loan by a competent and appropriately State-certified or State-licensed appraiser;
(B) Conforms to generally accepted appraisal standards as evidenced by the
USPAP and the appraisal requirements 490 of the Federal banking agencies; and
(C) Provides an “as is” opinion of the market value of the real property, which
includes an income approach; 491
(iii) Qualified the borrower for the CRE loan based on a monthly payment amount
derived from level monthly payments consisting of both principal and interest (at the
fully-indexed rate) over the term of the loan, not exceeding 25 years, or 30 years for a
qualifying multi-family property;
(iv) Conducted an environmental risk assessment to gain environmental
information about the property securing the loan and took appropriate steps to mitigate
any environmental liability determined to exist based on this assessment;
(v) Conducted an analysis of the borrower’s ability to service its overall debt
obligations during the next two years, based on reasonable projections (including
operating income projections for the property);

490

12 CFR part 34, subpart C (OCC); 12 CFR part 208, subpart E, and 12 CFR part 225,
subpart G (Board); and 12 CFR part 323 (FDIC).

491

See USPAP, Standard 1.

644

(vi)(A) Determined that based on the two years’ actual performance immediately
preceding the origination of the loan, the borrower would have had:
(1) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying leased CRE loan, net
of any income derived from a tenant(s) who is not a qualified tenant(s);
(2) A DSC ratio of 1.25 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying multi-family
property loan; or
(3) A DSC ratio of 1.7 or greater, if the loan is any other type of CRE loan;
(B) If the borrower did not own the property for any part of the last two years
prior to origination, the calculation of the DSC ratio, for purposes of paragraph
(a)(2)(vi)(A) of this section, shall include the property’s operating income for any portion
of the two-year period during which the borrower did not own the property;
(vii) Determined that, based on two years of projections, which include the new
debt obligation, following the origination date of the loan, the borrower will have:
(A) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying leased CRE loan, net
of any income derived from a tenant(s) who is not a qualified tenant(s);
(B) A DSC ratio of 1.25 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying multi-family
property loan; or
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.7 or greater, if the loan is any other type of CRE loan.
(3) The loan documentation for the CRE loan includes covenants that:
(i) Require the borrower to provide the borrower’s financial statements and
supporting schedules to the servicer on an ongoing basis, but not less frequently than
quarterly, including information on existing, maturing and new leasing or rent-roll
activity for the property securing the loan, as appropriate; and

645

(ii) Impose prohibitions on:
(A) The creation or existence of any other security interest with respect to the
collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this
section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section;
(B) The transfer of any collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph
(b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section or of any other collateral consisting of fixtures,
furniture, furnishings, machinery or equipment other than any such fixture, furniture,
furnishings, machinery or equipment that is obsolete or surplus; and
(C) Any change to the name, location or organizational structure of any borrower,
operating affiliate or other pledgor unless such borrower, operating affiliate or other
pledgor shall have given the holder of the loan at least 30 days advance notice and,
pursuant to applicable law governing perfection and priority, the holder of the loan is able
to take all steps necessary to continue its perfection and priority during such 30-day
period.
(iii) Require each borrower and each operating affiliate to:
(A) Maintain insurance that protects against loss on collateral for the CRE loan
described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for an amount no less than the replacement
cost of the property improvements, and names the originator or any subsequent holder of
the loan as an additional insured or lender loss payee;
(B) Pay taxes, charges, fees, and claims, where non-payment might give rise to a
lien on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this
section;
(C) Take any action required to:

646

(1) Protect the security interest and the enforceability and priority thereof in the
collateral described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section and defend
such collateral against claims adverse to the originator’s or any subsequent holder’s
interest; and
(2) Perfect the security interest of the originator or any subsequent holder of the
loan in any other collateral for the CRE loan to the extent that such security interest is
required by this section to be perfected;
(D) Permit the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, and the servicer, to
inspect any collateral for the CRE loan and the books and records of the borrower or
other party relating to any collateral for the CRE loan;
(E) Maintain the physical condition of collateral for the CRE loan described in
paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(F) Comply with all environmental, zoning, building code, licensing and other
laws, regulations, agreements, covenants, use restrictions, and proffers applicable to
collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(G) Comply with leases, franchise agreements, condominium declarations, and
other documents and agreements relating to the operation of collateral for the CRE loan
described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and to not modify any material terms and
conditions of such agreements over the term of the loan without the consent of the
originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, or the servicer; and
(H) Not materially alter collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph
(a)(1)(i) of this section without the consent of the originator or any subsequent holder of
the loan, or the servicer.

647

(4) The loan documentation for the CRE loan prohibits the borrower and each
operating affiliate from obtaining a loan secured by a junior lien on collateral for the CRE
loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, unless:
(i) The sum of the principal amount of such junior lien loan, plus the principal
amount of all other loans secured by collateral described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or
(a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, does not exceed the applicable CLTV ratio in paragraph
(a)(5) of this section, based on the appraisal at origination of such junior lien loan; or
(ii) Such loan is a purchase money obligation that financed the acquisition of
machinery or equipment and the borrower or operating affiliate (as applicable) pledges
such machinery and equipment as additional collateral for the CRE loan.
(5) At origination, the applicable loan-to-value ratios for the loan are:
(i) LTV less than or equal to 65 percent and CLTV less than or equal to
70 percent; or
(ii) LTV less than or equal to 60 percent and CLTV less than or equal to
65 percent, if an appraisal used to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)
of this section used a direct capitalization rate, and that rate is less than or equal to the
sum of:
(A) The 10-year swap rate, as reported in the Federal Reserve’s H.15 Report (or
any successor report) as of the date concurrent with the effective date of such appraisal;
and
(B) 300 basis points.

648

(iii) If the appraisal required under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section included a
direct capitalization method using an overall capitalization rate, that rate must be
disclosed to potential investors in the securitization.
(6) All loan payments required to be made under the loan agreement are:
(i) Based on level monthly payments of principal and interest (at the fully indexed
rate) to fully amortize the debt over a term that does not exceed 25 years, or 30 years for
a qualifying multifamily loan; and
(ii) To be made no less frequently than monthly over a term of at least ten years.
(7) Under the terms of the loan agreement:
(i) Any maturity of the note occurs no earlier than ten years following the date of
origination;
(ii) The borrower is not permitted to defer repayment of principal or payment of
interest; and
(iii) The interest rate on the loan is:
(A) A fixed interest rate;
(B) An adjustable interest rate and the borrower, prior to or concurrently with
origination of the CRE loan, obtained a derivative that effectively results in a fixed
interest rate; or
(C) An adjustable interest rate and the borrower, prior to or concurrently with
origination of the CRE loan, obtained a derivative that established a cap on the interest
rate for the term of the loan, and the loan meets the underwriting criteria in paragraphs
(a)(2)(vi) and (a)(2)(vii) of this section using the maximum interest rate allowable under
the interest rate cap.

649

(8) The originator does not establish an interest reserve at origination to fund all
or part of a payment on the loan.
(9) At the closing of the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan
are contractually current.
(10)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the
effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring
that all qualifying CRE loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce
the sponsor’s risk retention requirement under § __.15 meet all of the requirements set
forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section and has concluded that its internal
supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor’s internal supervisory
controls referenced in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each
issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or
similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such assetbacked security;
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification
described in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period
of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request,
to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any; and
(11) Within two weeks of the closing of the CRE loan by its originator or, if
sooner, prior to the transfer of such CRE loan to the issuing entity, the originator shall
have obtained a UCC lien search from the jurisdiction of organization of the borrower
and each operating affiliate, that does not report, as of the time that the security interest of

650

the originator in the property described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section was
perfected, other higher priority liens of record on any property described in paragraph
(a)(1)(iii) of this section, other than purchase money security interests.
(b) Cure or buy-back requirement. If a sponsor has relied on the exception
provided in § ___.15 with respect to a qualifying CRE loan and it is subsequently
determined that the CRE loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs
(a)(1) through (a)(9) and (a)(11) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of
the exception with respect to the CRE loan if the depositor complied with the certification
requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(10) of this section, and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs
(a)(1) through (a)(9) and (a)(11) of this section is not material; or;
(2) No later than 90 days after the determination that the loan does not meet one
or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(9) or (a)(11) of this section,
the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, restoring conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as
of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the
remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of
repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section,
the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed
securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such
securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor

651

pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such
repurchased loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ __.18 Underwriting standards for qualifying automobile loans.
(a) Underwriting, product and other standards. (1) Prior to origination of the
automobile loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented that within 30 days of the date of origination:
(A) The borrower was not currently 30 days or more past due, in whole or in part,
on any debt obligation;
(B) Within the previous 24 months, the borrower has not been 60 days or more
past due, in whole or in part, on any debt obligation;
(C) Within the previous 36 months, the borrower has not:
(1) Been a debtor in a proceeding commenced under Chapter 7 (Liquidation),
Chapter 11 (Reorganization), Chapter 12 (Family Farmer or Family Fisherman plan), or
Chapter 13 (Individual Debt Adjustment) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code; or
(2) Been the subject of any federal or State judicial judgment for the collection of
any unpaid debt;
(D) Within the previous 36 months, no one-to-four family property owned by the
borrower has been the subject of any foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure, or short
sale; or
(E) Within the previous 36 months, the borrower has not had any personal
property repossessed;
(ii) Determined and documented that the borrower has at least 24 months of credit
history; and

652

(iii) Determined and documented that, upon the origination of the loan, the
borrower’s DTI ratio is less than or equal to 36 percent.
(A) For the purpose of making the determination under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of
this section, the originator must:
(1) Verify and document all income of the borrower that the originator includes in
the borrower’s effective monthly income (using payroll stubs, tax returns, profit and loss
statements, or other similar documentation); and
(2) On or after the date of the borrower’s written application and prior to
origination, obtain a credit report regarding the borrower from a consumer reporting
agency that compiles and maintain files on consumers on a nationwide basis (within the
meaning of 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p)) and verify that all outstanding debts reported in the
borrower’s credit report are incorporated into the calculation of the borrower’s DTI ratio
under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section;
(2) An originator will be deemed to have met the requirements of paragraph
(a)(1)(i) of this section if:
(i) The originator, no more than 30 days before the closing of the loan, obtains a
credit report regarding the borrower from a consumer reporting agency that compiles and
maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis (within the meaning of 15 U.S.C.
1681a(p));
(ii) Based on the information in such credit report, the borrower meets all of the
requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and no information in a credit report
subsequently obtained by the originator before the closing of the loan contains contrary
information; and

653

(iii) The originator obtains electronic or hard copies of the credit report.
(3) At closing of the automobile loan, the borrower makes a down payment from
the borrower’s personal funds and trade-in allowance, if any, that is at least equal to the
sum of:
(i) The full cost of the vehicle title, tax, and registration fees;
(ii) Any dealer-imposed fees;
(iii) The full cost of any additional warranties, insurance or other products
purchased in connection with the purchase of the vehicle; and
(iv) 10 percent of the vehicle purchase price.
(4) The originator records a first lien securing the loan on the purchased vehicle in
accordance with State law.
(5) The terms of the loan agreement provide a maturity date for the loan that does
not exceed the lesser of:
(i) Six years from the date of origination; or
(ii) 10 years minus the difference between the current model year and the
vehicle’s model year.
(6) The terms of the loan agreement:
(i) Specify a fixed rate of interest for the life of the loan;
(ii) Provide for a level monthly payment amount that fully amortizes the amount
financed over the loan term;
(iii) Do not permit the borrower to defer repayment of principal or payment of
interest; and

654

(iv) Require the borrower to make the first payment on the automobile loan within
45 days of the loan’s contract date.
(7) At the cutoff date of the securitization transaction, all payments due on the
loan are contractually current; and
(8)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the
effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring
that all qualifying automobile loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that
reduce the sponsor’s risk retention requirement under § __.15 meet all of the
requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section and has
concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor’s internal supervisory
controls referenced in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each
issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or
similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such assetbacked security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification
described in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period
of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request,
to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(b) Cure or buy-back requirement. If a sponsor has relied on the exception
provided in § ___.15 with respect to a qualifying automobile loan and it is subsequently
determined that the loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1)
through (a)(7) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with

655

respect to the automobile loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement
set forth in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs
(a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section is not material; or
(2) No later than ninety (90) days after the determination that the loan does not
meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section,
the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, establishing conformity of the loan to the unmet
requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the
remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of
repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section,
the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed
securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such
securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor
pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such
loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ __.19 General exemptions.
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Community-focused residential mortgage means a residential mortgage exempt
from the definition of “covered transaction” under § 1026.43(a)(3)(iv)-(v) of the CFPB’s
Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(a)).

656

First pay class means a class of ABS interests for which all interests in the class
are entitled to the same priority of payment and that, at the time of closing of the
transaction, is entitled to repayments of principal and payments of interest prior to or prorata with all other classes of securities collateralized by the same pool of first-lien
residential mortgages, until such class has no principal or notional balance remaining.
Inverse floater means an ABS interest issued as part of a securitization transaction
for which interest or other income is payable to the holder based on a rate or formula that
varies inversely to a reference rate of interest.
Qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loan means a mortgage loan
that is (A) secured by a dwelling (as defined in 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(19)) that is owner
occupied and contains three-to-four housing units; (B) is deemed to be for business
purposes for purposes of Regulation Z under 12 CFR part 1026, Supplement I, paragraph
3(a)-5).i; and (C) otherwise meets all of the requirements to qualify as a qualified
mortgage under §§ 1026.43(e) and (f) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(e) and (f)) as if
the loan were a covered transaction under that section.
(b) This part shall not apply to:
(1) U.S. Government-backed securitizations. Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility
mortgage loan assets that are insured or guaranteed (in whole or in part) as to the
payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States,
and servicing assets; or
(ii) Involves the issuance of asset-backed securities that:

657

(A) Are insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the
United States or an agency of the United States; and
(B) Are collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility
mortgage loan assets or interests in such assets, and servicing assets.
(2) Certain agricultural loan securitizations. Any securitization transaction that is
collateralized solely by loans or other assets made, insured, guaranteed, or purchased by
any institution that is subject to the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration,
including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, and servicing assets;
(3) State and municipal securitizations. Any asset-backed security that is a
security issued or guaranteed by any State, or by any political subdivision of a State, or
by any public instrumentality of a State that is exempt from the registration requirements
of the Securities Act of 1933 by reason of section 3(a)(2) of that Act (15 U.S.C.
77c(a)(2)); and
(4) Qualified scholarship funding bonds. Any asset-backed security that meets the
definition of a qualified scholarship funding bond, as set forth in section 150(d)(2) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 150(d)(2)).
(5) Pass-through resecuritizations. Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by asset-backed securities:
(A) For which credit risk was retained as required under subpart B of this part; or
(B) That were exempted from the credit risk retention requirements of this part
pursuant to subpart D of this part;
(ii) Is structured so that it involves the issuance of only a single class of ABS
interests; and

658

(iii) Provides for the pass-through of all principal and interest payments received
on the underlying asset-backed securities (net of expenses of the issuing entity) to the
holders of such class.
(6) First-pay-class securitizations. Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by first-pay classes of assetbacked securities collateralized by first-lien residential mortgages on properties located in
any state:
(A) For which credit risk was retained as required under subpart B of this part; or
(B) That were exempted from the credit risk retention requirements of this part
pursuant to subpart D of this part;
(ii) Does not provide for any ABS interest issued in the securitization transaction
to share in realized principal losses other than pro rata with all other ABS interests issued
in the securitization transaction based on the current unpaid principal balance of such
ABS interests at the time the loss is realized;
(iii) Is structured to reallocate prepayment risk;
(iv) Does not reallocate credit risk (other than as a consequence of reallocation of
prepayment risk); and
(v) Does not include any inverse floater or similarly structured ABS interest.
(7) Seasoned loans. (i) Any securitization transaction that is collateralized solely
by servicing assets, and by seasoned loans that meet the following requirements:
(A) The loans have not been modified since origination; and
(B) None of the loans have been delinquent for 30 days or more.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, a seasoned loan means:

659

(A) With respect to asset-backed securities collateralized by residential
mortgages, a loan that has been outstanding and performing for the longer of:
(1) A period of five years; or
(2) Until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to 25
percent of the original principal balance.
(3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(7)(ii)(A)(1) and (b)(7)(ii)(A)(2) of this
section, any residential mortgage loan that has been outstanding and performing for a
period of at least seven years shall be deemed a seasoned loan.
(B) With respect to all other classes of asset-backed securities, a loan that has
been outstanding and performing for the longer of:
(1) A period of at least two years; or
(2) Until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to 33
percent of the original principal balance.
(8) Certain public utility securitizations. (i) Any securitization transaction where
the asset-back securities issued in the transaction are secured by the intangible property
right to collect charges for the recovery of specified costs and such other assets, if any, of
an issuing entity that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by an investor owned utility
company that is subject to the regulatory authority of a State public utility commission or
other appropriate State agency.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph:
(A) Specified cost means any cost identified by a State legislature as appropriate
for recovery through securitization pursuant to specified cost recovery legislation; and
(B) Specified cost recovery legislation means legislation enacted by a State that:

660

(1) Authorizes the investor owned utility company to apply for, and authorizes the
public utility commission or other appropriate State agency to issue, a financing order
determining the amount of specified costs the utility will be allowed to recover;
(2) Provides that pursuant to a financing order, the utility acquires an intangible
property right to charge, collect, and receive amounts necessary to provide for the full
recovery of the specified costs determined to be recoverable, and assures that the charges
are non-bypassable and will be paid by customers within the utility’s historic service
territory who receive utility goods or services through the utility’s transmission and
distribution system, even if those customers elect to purchase these goods or services
from a third party; and
(3) Guarantees that neither the State nor any of its agencies has the authority to
rescind or amend the financing order, to revise the amount of specified costs, or in any
way to reduce or impair the value of the intangible property right, except as may be
contemplated by periodic adjustments authorized by the specified cost recovery
legislation.
(c) Exemption for securitizations of assets issued, insured or guaranteed by the
United States. This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction if the assetbacked securities issued in the transaction are:
(1) Collateralized solely by obligations issued by the United States or an agency
of the United States and servicing assets;
(2) Collateralized solely by assets that are fully insured or guaranteed as to the
payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States
(other than those referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) and servicing assets; or

661

(3) Fully guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the
United States or any agency of the United States;
(d) Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation securitizations. This part shall not
apply to any securitization transaction that is sponsored by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation acting as conservator or receiver under any provision of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Act or of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act.
(e) Reduced requirement for certain student loan securitizations. The 5 percent
risk retention requirement set forth in § __.4 shall be modified as follows:
(1) With respect to a securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by
student loans made under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP loans”)
that are guaranteed as to 100 percent of defaulted principal and accrued interest, and
servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 0 percent;
(2) With respect to a securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by
FFELP loans that are guaranteed as to at least 98 percent but less than 100 percent of
defaulted principal and accrued interest, and servicing assets, the risk retention
requirement shall be 2 percent; and
(3) With respect to any other securitization transaction that is collateralized solely
by FFELP loans, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 3 percent.
(f) Community-focused lending securitizations.
(1) This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction if the asset-backed
securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by community-focused
residential mortgages and servicing assets.

662

(2) For any securitization transaction that includes both community-focused
residential mortgages and residential mortgages that are not exempt from risk retention
under this part , the percent of risk retention required under § __.4(a) is reduced by the
ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the community-focused residential mortgages to
the total unpaid principal balance of residential mortgages that are included in the pool of
assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization
transaction (the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio); provided that:
(i) The community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio is measured as of the
cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the pool assets
collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization
transaction; and
(ii) If the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio would exceed 50
percent, the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio shall be deemed to be 50
percent.
(g) Exemptions for securitizations of certain three-to-four unit mortgage loans. A
sponsor shall be exempt from the risk retention requirements in subpart B of this part
with respect to any securitization transaction if:
(1)(i) The asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized
solely by qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans and servicing assets; or
(ii) The asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely
by qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, qualified residential
mortgages as defined in § __.13, and servicing assets.

663

(2) The depositor with respect to the securitization provides the certifications set
forth in § __.13(b)(4) with respect to the process for ensuring that all assets that
collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are qualifying three-tofour unit residential mortgage loans, qualified residential mortgages, or servicing assets;
and
(3) The sponsor of the securitization complies with the repurchase requirements
in § __.13(c) with respect to a loan if, after closing, it is determined that the loan does not
meet all of the criteria to be either a qualified residential mortgage or a qualifying threeto-four unit residential mortgage loan, as appropriate.
(h) Rule of construction. Securitization transactions involving the issuance of
asset-backed securities that are either issued, insured, or guaranteed by, or are
collateralized by obligations issued by, or loans that are issued, insured, or guaranteed by,
the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation, or a Federal home loan bank shall not on that basis qualify for exemption
under this part.
§ __.20 Safe harbor for certain foreign-related transactions.
(a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply:
U.S. person means:
(1) Any of the following:
(i) Any natural person resident in the United States;
(ii) Any partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other organization
or entity organized or incorporated under the laws of any State or of the United States;

664

(iii) Any estate of which any executor or administrator is a U.S. person (as
defined under any other clause of this definition);
(iv) Any trust of which any trustee is a U.S. person (as defined under any other
clause of this definition);
(v) Any agency or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States;
(vi) Any non-discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or
trust) held by a dealer or other fiduciary for the benefit or account of a U.S. person (as
defined under any other clause of this definition);
(vii) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust)
held by a dealer or other fiduciary organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident
in the United States; and
(viii) Any partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other
organization or entity if:
(A) Organized or incorporated under the laws of any foreign jurisdiction; and
(B) Formed by a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition)
principally for the purpose of investing in securities not registered under the Act; and
(2) “U.S. person(s)” does not include:
(i) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held
for the benefit or account of a person not constituting a U.S. person (as defined under
paragraph (a)(1) of this section) by a dealer or other professional fiduciary organized,
incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States;
(ii) Any estate of which any professional fiduciary acting as executor or
administrator is a U.S. person (as defined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) if:

665

(A) An executor or administrator of the estate who is not a U.S. person (as
defined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) has sole or shared investment discretion
with respect to the assets of the estate; and
(B) The estate is governed by foreign law;
(iii) Any trust of which any professional fiduciary acting as trustee is a U.S.
person (as defined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section), if a trustee who is not a U.S.
person (as defined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section) has sole or shared investment
discretion with respect to the trust assets, and no beneficiary of the trust (and no settlor if
the trust is revocable) is a U.S. person (as defined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section);
(iv) An employee benefit plan established and administered in accordance with
the law of a country other than the United States and customary practices and
documentation of such country;
(v) Any agency or branch of a U.S. person (as defined under paragraph (a)(1) of
this section) located outside the United States if:
(A) The agency or branch operates for valid business reasons; and
(B) The agency or branch is engaged in the business of insurance or banking and
is subject to substantive insurance or banking regulation, respectively, in the jurisdiction
where located;
(vi) The International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank,
the African Development Bank, the United Nations, and their agencies, affiliates and
pension plans, and any other similar international organizations, their agencies, affiliates
and pension plans.

666

(b) In general. This part shall not apply to a securitization transaction if all the
following conditions are met:
(1) The securitization transaction is not required to be and is not registered under
the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a et seq.);
(2) No more than 10 percent of the dollar value (or equivalent amount in the
currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all classes of ABS
interests in the securitization transaction are sold or transferred to U.S. persons or for the
account or benefit of U.S. persons;
(3) Neither the sponsor of the securitization transaction nor the issuing entity is:
(i) Chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or
any State;
(ii) An unincorporated branch or office (wherever located) of an entity chartered,
incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(iii) An unincorporated branch or office located in the United States or any State
of an entity that is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction
other than the United States or any State; and
(4) If the sponsor or issuing entity is chartered, incorporated, or organized under
the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any State, no more than 25
percent (as determined based on unpaid principal balance) of the assets that collateralize
the ABS interests sold in the securitization transaction were acquired by the sponsor or
issuing entity, directly or indirectly, from:
(i) A majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor or issuing entity that is chartered,
incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or

667

(ii) An unincorporated branch or office of the sponsor or issuing entity that is
located in the United States or any State.
(c) Evasions prohibited. In view of the objective of these rules and the policies
underlying Section 15G of the Exchange Act, the safe harbor described in paragraph (b)
of this section is not available with respect to any transaction or series of transactions
that, although in technical compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, is part
of a plan or scheme to evade the requirements of section 15G and this Regulation. In
such cases, compliance with section 15G and this part is required.
§ __.21 Additional exemptions.
(a) Securitization transactions. The federal agencies with rulewriting authority
under section 15G(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(b)) with respect to the type
of assets involved may jointly provide a total or partial exemption of any securitization
transaction as such agencies determine may be appropriate in the public interest and for
the protection of investors.
(b) Exceptions, exemptions, and adjustments. The Federal banking agencies and
the Commission, in consultation with the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the
Department of Housing and Urban Development, may jointly adopt or issue exemptions,
exceptions or adjustments to the requirements of this part, including exemptions,
exceptions or adjustments for classes of institutions or assets in accordance with section
15G(e) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)).
§ __.22 Periodic review of the QRM definition, exempted three-to-four unit
residential mortgage loans, and community-focused residential mortgage exemption

668

(a) The Federal banking agencies and the Commission, in consultation with the
Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, shall commence a review of the definition of qualified residential
mortgage in § ___.13, a review of the community-focused residential mortgage
exemption in § ___.19(f), and a review of the exemption for qualifying three-to-four unit
residential mortgage loans in § ___.19(g):
(1) No later than four years after the effective date of the rule (as it relates to
securitizers and originators of asset-backed securities collateralized by residential
mortgages), five years following the completion of such initial review, and every five
years thereafter; and
(2) At any time, upon the request of any Federal banking agency, the
Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency or the Department of Housing and
Urban Development, specifying the reason for such request, including as a result of any
amendment to the definition of qualified mortgage or changes in the residential housing
market.
(b) The Federal banking agencies, the Commission, the Federal Housing Finance
Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall publish in the
Federal Register notice of the commencement of a review and, in the case of a review
commenced under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the reason an agency is requesting
such review. After completion of any review, but no later than six months after the
publication of the notice announcing the review, unless extended by the agencies, the
agencies shall jointly publish a notice disclosing the determination of their review. If the
agencies determine to amend the definition of qualified residential mortgage, the agencies

669

shall complete any required rulemaking within 12 months of publication in the Federal
Register of such notice disclosing the determination of their review, unless extended by
the agencies.

End of Common Rule
List of Subjects
12 CFR Part 43
Automobile loans, Banks and banking, Commercial loans, Commercial real
estate, Credit risk, Mortgages, National banks, Reporting and recordkeeping
requirements, Risk retention, Securitization.
12 CFR Part 244
Auto loans, Banks and banking, Bank holding companies, Commercial loans,
Commercial real estate, Credit risk, Edge and agreement corporations, Foreign banking
organizations, Mortgages, Nonbank financial companies, Reporting and recordkeeping
requirements, Risk retention, Savings and loan holding companies, Securitization, State
member banks.
12 CFR Part 373
Automobile loans, Banks and banking, Commercial loans, Commercial real
estate, Credit risk, Mortgages, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Risk retention,
Savings associations, Securitization.
12 CFR Part 1234
Government sponsored enterprises, Mortgages, Securities.
17 CFR Part 246
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities.
670

24 CFR Part 267
Mortgages.

Adoption of the Common Rule Text
The adoption of the common rule, as modified, is set forth below:
DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
12 CFR Chapter I
Authority and Issuance
For the reasons stated in the common preamble and under the authority of 12 U.S.C. 93a,
1464, 5412(b)(2)(B), and 15 U.S.C. 78o-11, the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency amends chapter I of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations as follows:

PART 43 – CREDIT RISK RETENTION
1. The authority for part 43 is added to read as follows:
Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1 et seq., 93a, 161, 1464, 1818, 5412(b)(2)(B), and 15
U.S.C. 78o-11.
2. Part 43 is added as set forth at the end of the Common Preamble.
3. Section 43.1 is added to read as follows:
§ 43.1 Authority, purpose, scope, and reservation of authority.
(a) Authority. This part is issued under the authority of 12 U.S.C. 1 et seq., 93a,
161, 1464, 1818, 5412(b)(2)(B), and 15 U.S.C. 78o-11.
(b) Purpose. (1) This part requires securitizers to retain an economic interest in a
portion of the credit risk for any asset that the securitizer, through the issuance of an
671

asset-backed security, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party. This part specifies the
permissible types, forms, and amounts of credit risk retention, and it establishes certain
exemptions for securitizations collateralized by assets that meet specified underwriting
standards.
(2) Nothing in this part shall be read to limit the authority of the OCC to take
supervisory or enforcement action, including action to address unsafe or unsound
practices or conditions, or violations of law.
(c) Scope. This part applies to any securitizer that is a national bank, a Federal
savings association, a Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank, or a subsidiary thereof.
(d) Effective dates. This part shall become effective:
(1) With respect to any securitization transaction collateralized by residential
mortgages, one year after the date on which final rules under section 15G(b) of the
Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(b)) are published in the Federal Register; and
(2) With respect to any other securitization transaction, two years after the date on
which final rules under section 15G(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(b)) are
published in the Federal Register.

BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM
12 CFR Chapter II
Authority and Issuance
For the reasons set forth in the Supplementary Information, the Board of Governors of
the Federal Reserve System is adopting the text of the common rule as set forth at the end

672

of the Supplementary Information as part 244 to chapter II of title 12, Code of Federal
Regulations, modified as follows:
PART 244 — CREDIT RISK RETENTION (REGULATION RR)
4. The authority citation for part 244 is added to reads as follows:
Authority: 12 U.S.C. 221 et seq., 1461 et seq., 1818, 1841 et seq., 3103 et seq.,
and 15 U.S.C. 78o-11.
4a. The part heading for part 244 is revised as set forth above.
5. Section 244.1 is added to read as follows:
§ 244.1 Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a) Authority. (1) In general. This part (Regulation RR) is issued by the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under section 15G of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) (15 U.S.C. 78o-11), as well as under
the Federal Reserve Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 221 et seq.); section 8 of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act), as amended (12 U.S.C. 1818); the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (BHC Act) (12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq.); the Home
Owners’ Loan Act of 1933 (HOLA) (12 U.S.C. 1461 et seq.); section 165 of the DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act) (12 U.S.C.
5365); and the International Banking Act of 1978, as amended (12 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).
(2) Nothing in this part shall be read to limit the authority of the Board to take
action under provisions of law other than 15 U.S.C. 78o-11, including action to address
unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, or violations of law or regulation, under
section 8 of the FDI Act.

673

(b) Purpose. This part requires any securitizer to retain an economic interest in a
portion of the credit risk for any asset that the securitizer, through the issuance of an
asset-backed security, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party in a transaction within
the scope of section 15G of the Exchange Act. This part specifies the permissible types,
forms, and amounts of credit risk retention, and establishes certain exemptions for
securitizations collateralized by assets that meet specified underwriting standards or that
otherwise qualify for an exemption.
(c) Scope. (1) This part applies to any securitizer that is:
(i) A state member bank (as defined in 12 CFR 208.2(g)); or
(ii) Any subsidiary of a state member bank.
(2) Section 15G of the Exchange Act and the rules issued thereunder apply to any
securitizer that is:
(i) A bank holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1842);
(ii) A foreign banking organization (as defined in 12 CFR 211.21(o));
(iii) An Edge or agreement corporation (as defined in 12 CFR 211.1(c)(2)
and (3));
(iv) A nonbank financial company that the Financial Stability Oversight Council
has determined under section 113 of the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
Protection Act (the Dodd–Frank Act) (12 U.S.C. 5323) shall be supervised by the Board
and for which such determination is still in effect; or
(v) A savings and loan holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1467a); and
(vi) Any subsidiary of the foregoing.

FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
674

12 CFR Chapter III
Authority and Issuance
For the reasons set forth in the Supplementary Information, the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation adds the text of the common rule as set forth at the end of the Supplementary
Information as part 373 to chapter III of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations, modified
as follows:
PART 373 — CREDIT RISK RETENTION
6. The authority citation for part 373 is added to reads as follows:
Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. and 3103 et seq., and 15 U.S.C. 78o-11.
7. Section 373.1 is added to read as follows:
§ 373.1 Purpose and scope.
(a) Authority. (1) In general. This part is issued by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC) under section 15G of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended (Exchange Act) (15 U.S.C. 78o-11), as well as the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (12 U.S.C. 1801 et seq.) and the International Banking Act of 1978, as amended (12
U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).
(2) Nothing in this part shall be read to limit the authority of the FDIC to take
action under provisions of law other than 15 U.S.C. 78o-11, including to address unsafe
or unsound practices or conditions, or violations of law or regulation under section 8 of
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1818).
(b) Purpose. (1) This part requires securitizers to retain an economic interest in a
portion of the credit risk for any asset that the securitizer, through the issuance of an
asset-backed security, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party in a transaction within

675

the scope of section 15G of the Exchange Act. This part specifies the permissible types,
forms, and amounts of credit risk retention, and it establishes certain exemptions for
securitizations collateralized by assets that meet specified underwriting standards or that
otherwise qualify for an exemption.
(c) Scope. This part applies to any securitizer that is:
(1) A state nonmember bank (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(e)(2));
(2) An insured federal or state branch of a foreign bank (as defined in 12 CFR
347.202);
(3) A state savings association (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(3)); or
(4) Any subsidiary of an entity described in paragraphs (1), (2), or (3) of this
section.
FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
For the reasons stated in the Supplementary Information, and under the authority
of 12 U.S.C. 4526, the Federal Housing Finance Agency is adopting the text of the
common rule as set forth at the end of the Supplementary Information as part 1234 of
subchapter B of chapter XII of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations, modified as
follows:
CHAPTER XII – FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY
SUBCHAPTER B – ENTITY REGULATIONS
PART 1234 — CREDIT RISK RETENTION
8. The authority citation for part 1234 is added to read as follows:
Authority: 12 U.S.C. 4511(b), 4526, 4617; 15 U.S.C. 78o-11(b)(2).
9. Section 1234.1 is added to read as follows:

676

§ 1234.1 Purpose, scope and reservation of authority.
(a) Purpose. This part requires securitizers to retain an economic interest in a
portion of the credit risk for any residential mortgage asset that the securitizer, through
the issuance of an asset-backed security, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party in a
transaction within the scope of section 15G of the Exchange Act. This part specifies the
permissible types, forms, and amounts of credit risk retention, and it establishes certain
exemptions for securitizations collateralized by assets that meet specified underwriting
standards or that otherwise qualify for an exemption.
(b) Scope. (1) Effective [INSERT DATE ONE YEAR AFTER DATE OF
PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER AS A FINAL RULE], this part will
apply to any securitizer that is an entity regulated by the Federal Housing Finance
Agency with respect to a securitization transaction collateralized by residential
mortgages.
(2) Effective [INSERT DATE TWO YEARS AFTER DATE OF
PUBLICATION IN THE FEDERAL REGISTER AS A FINAL RULE], this part will
apply to any securitizer that is an entity regulated by the Federal Housing Finance
Agency with respect to a securitization transaction collateralized by assets other than
residential mortgages.
(c) Reservation of authority. Nothing in this part shall be read to limit the
authority of the Director of the Federal Housing Finance Agency to take supervisory or
enforcement action, including action to address unsafe or unsound practices or
conditions, or violations of law.
10. Amend § 1234.14 as follows:

677

a. Revise the heading to read as set forth below.
b. In the introductory paragraph, remove the words “§§ 1234.15 through 1234.18”
and add in their place the words “§§ 1234.15 and 1234.17”.
c. Remove the definitions of “Automobile loan”, “Commercial loan”, “Debt-toincome (DTI) ratio”, “Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization
(EBITDA)”, “Lease financing”, “Leverage Ratio”, “Model year”, “Payment-in-kind”,
“Purchase price”, “Salvage title”, “Total debt”, “Total liabilities ratio”, and “Trade-in
allowance”.
d. Revise the definition of “Debt service coverage (DSC) ratio” to read as follows:
§ 1234.14 Definitions applicable to qualifying commercial real estate loans.
*****
Debt service coverage (DSC) ratio means the ratio of:
(1) The annual NOI less the annual replacement reserve of the CRE property at
the time of origination of the CRE loan(s); to
(2) The sum of the borrower’s annual payments for principal and interest
(calculated at the fully indexed rate) on any debt obligation.
*****
11. Revise § 1234.15 to read as follows:
§ 1234.15 Qualifying commercial real estate loans.
(a) General exception. Commercial real estate loans that are securitized through
a securitization transaction shall be subject to a 0 percent risk retention requirement under
subpart B, provided that the following conditions are met:
(1) The CRE assets meet the underwriting standards set forth in § 1234.17;

678

(2) The securitization transaction is collateralized solely by CRE loans and by
servicing assets;
(3) The securitization transaction does not permit reinvestment periods; and
(4) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a
reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities of the issuing entity,
and, upon request, to the Commission, and to the FHFA, in written form under the
caption “Credit Risk Retention” a description of the manner in which the sponsor
determined the aggregate risk retention requirement for the securitization transaction after
including qualifying CRE loans with 0 percent risk retention.
(b) Risk retention requirement. For any securitization transaction described in
paragraph (a) of this section, the percentage of risk retention required under § 1234.3(a)
is reduced by the percentage evidenced by the ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the
qualifying CRE loans to the total unpaid principal balance of CRE loans that are included
in the pool of assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the
securitization transaction (the qualifying asset ratio); provided that;
(1) The qualifying asset ratio is measured as of the cut-off date or similar date for
establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed
securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction;
(2) If the qualifying asset ratio would exceed 50 percent, the qualifying asset
ratio shall be deemed to be 50 percent; and
(3) The disclosure required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section also includes
descriptions of the qualifying CRE loans and descriptions of the CRE loans that are not
qualifying CRE loans, and the material differences between the group of qualifying CRE

679

loans and CRE loans that are not qualifying loans with respect to the composition of each
group’s loan balances, loan terms, interest rates, borrower credit information, and
characteristics of any loan collateral.
(c) Exception for securitizations of qualifying CRE only. Notwithstanding other
provisions of this section, the risk retention requirements of subpart B of this part shall
not apply to securitization transactions where the transaction is collateralized solely by
servicing assets and qualifying CRE loans.
(d) Record maintenance. A regulated entity must retain the disclosures required
in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the certification required in § 1234.17(a)(10)
of this part, in its records until three years after all ABS interests issued in the
securitization are no longer outstanding. The regulated entity must provide the
disclosures and certifications upon request to the Commission and the FHFA.
§§ 1234.16 and 1234.18 - [Removed and Reserved]
12. Remove and reserve §§ 1234.16 and 1234.18.

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
For the reasons stated in the Supplementary Information, the Securities and
Exchange Commission is adopting the amendments under the authority set forth in
Sections 7, 10, 19(a), and 28 of the Securities Act and Sections 3, 13, 15, 15G, 23 and 36
of the Exchange Act.
For the reasons set out above, title 17, chapter II of the Code of Federal
Regulations is adopting amendments as follows:
PART 246 — CREDIT RISK RETENTION

680

13. The authority citation for part 246 is added to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-3, 78c, 78m, 78o, 78o-11, 78w, 78mm
14. Part 246 is added as set forth at the end of the Common Preamble.
15. Section 246.1 is added to read as follows:
§ 246.1 Purpose, scope, and authority.
(a) Authority and purpose. This part (Regulation RR) is issued by the Securities
and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) jointly with the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, and, in the case of the securitization of any residential
mortgage asset, together with the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the
Federal Housing Finance Agency, pursuant to Section 15G of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-11). The Commission also is issuing this part pursuant to its
authority under Sections 7, 10, 19(a), and 28 of the Securities Act and Sections 3, 13, 15,
23, and 36 of the Exchange Act. This part requires securitizers to retain an economic
interest in a portion of the credit risk for any asset that the securitizer, through the
issuance of an asset-backed security, transfers, sells, or conveys to a third party. This
part specifies the permissible types, forms, and amounts of credit risk retention, and
establishes certain exemptions for securitizations collateralized by assets that meet
specified underwriting standards or otherwise qualify for an exemption.
(b) The authority of the Commission under this part shall be in addition to the
authority of the Commission to otherwise enforce the federal securities laws, including,
without limitation, the antifraud provisions of the securities laws.
DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

681

Authority and Issuance
For the reasons stated in the SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION, HUD
proposes to add a new part 267 to read as follows:
PART 267—CREDIT RISK RETENTION
16. The authority citation for part 267 is added to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78–o–11; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).
17. Section 267.1 is added to read as follows:
§ 267.1 Credit risk retention exceptions and exemptions for HUD programs.
The credit risk retention regulations codified at 12 CFR part 43 (Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency); 12 CFR part 244 (Federal Reserve System); 12 CFR part
373 (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation); 17 CFR part 246 (Securities and Exchange
Commission); and 12 CFR part 1234 (Federal Housing Finance Agency) include
exceptions and exemptions in subpart D of each of these codified regulations for certain
transactions involving programs and entities under the jurisdiction of the Department of
Housing and Urban Development.

682

[THIS SIGNATURE PAGE RELATES TO THE INTERAGENCY FINAL RULE
ENTITLED “CREDIT RISK RETENTION”]

Dated: October 22, 2014

By the Securities and Exchange Commission.

______________________________
Kevin M. O’Neill
Deputy Secretary

683

684

