SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
17 CFR Parts 240 and 249
[Release No. 34-75611; File No. S7-40-11]
RIN 3235-AL05
Registration Process for Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap
Participants
AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission.
ACTION: Final rule.
SUMMARY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) is adopting new
Rules 15Fb1-1 through 15Fb6-2 and Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, SBSE-BD, SBSE-C and SBSE-W in
accordance with Section 15F of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange Act”).
Section 15F, which was added to the Exchange Act by Section 764(a) of Title VII of the DoddFrank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (“Dodd-Frank Act”), requires the
Commission to issue rules to provide for the registration of security-based swap dealers (“SBS
Dealers”) and major security-based swap participants (“Major SBS Participants”) (collectively,
“SBS Entities”). These new rules and forms establish a process by which SBS Entities can register
(and withdraw from registration) with the Commission.
DATES: Effective Date: [insert date that is 60 days after publication in the Federal Register].
Compliance Date: The later of: six months after the date of publication in the Federal Register of a
final rule release adopting rules establishing capital, margin and segregation requirements for SBS
Entities; the compliance date of final rules establishing recordkeeping and reporting requirements
for SBS Entities; the compliance date of final rules establishing business conduct requirements
under Exchange Act Sections 15F(h) and 15F(k); or the compliance date for final rules establishing
a process for a registered SBS Entity to make an application to the Commission to allow an

associated person who is subject to a statutory disqualification to effect or be involved in effecting
security-based swaps on the SBS Entity’s behalf.
Counting Date: For purposes of complying with the registration and other requirements, persons are
not required to begin calculating whether their activities meet or exceed the thresholds established
in Exchange Act Rules 3a71-2, 3a67-3, and 3a67-5 until two months prior to the Compliance Date
of these rules.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paula Jenson, Deputy Chief Counsel; Joseph
Furey, Assistant Chief Counsel; Bonnie Gauch, Senior Special Counsel; Joanne Rutkowski, Senior
Special Counsel; or Jonathan Shapiro, Special Counsel; (202) 551-5550; Division of Trading and
Markets, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-7010.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
TABLE OF CONTENTS
I.

II.

Background
A.

Dodd-Frank Act

B.

Proposed Rules

C.

Comments Received

D.

Summary of Final Rules

Final Exchange Act Rules and Forms
A.

Registration Application and Amendment
1.

Rule 15Fb2-1
i.

Form of Application

ii.

Senior Officer Certification

iii.

Conditional Registration

iv.

Electronic Filing and Completeness of the Application

v.

Standards for Granting or Initiating Proceedings to Determine
whether to Deny Registration

vi.

Comments on Substituted Compliance

2

2.
B.

Associated Persons
1.

C.

D.

E.

III.

IV.

Amendments to Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, and Form SBSE-BD: Rule
15Fb2-3
Associated Person Certification
i.

Associated Person Entities

ii.

Involved in Effecting Transactions

iii.

Licensing

2.

Questionnaire or Application for Employment and Background Checks

3.

Final Rule for Associated Person Certification

Termination of Registration
1.

Duration of Registration: Rule 15Fb3-1

2.

Withdrawal: Rule 15Fb3-2

3.

Cancellation and Revocation: Rule 15Fb3-3

Special Requirements for Nonresident SBS Entities
1.

Definition of Nonresident SBS Entities

2.

United States Agent for Service of Process

3.

Access to Books and Records, and Onsite Inspections and Examinations, of
Nonresident SBS Entities

Special Situations
1.

Succession: Rule 15Fb2-5

2.

Insolvency: Rule 15Fb2-6

F.

Electronic Signatures

G.

Forms
1.

Form SBSE

2.

Form SBSE-A

3.

Form SBSE-BD

4.

Form SBSE-C

5.

Form SBSE-W

Explanation of Dates
A.

Effective Date

B.

Registration Compliance Date

C.

SBS Entity Counting Date

Paperwork Reduction Act
3

V.

A.

Summary of Collection of Information

B.

Proposed Use of Information

C.

Respondents

D.

Total Initial and Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burdens
1.

Burden Associated with Filing Application Forms

2.

Burden Associated with Amending Application Forms

3.

Burdens Relating to Associated Persons

4.

Burdens on Nonresident SBS Entities

5.

Burden Related to Retention of Manually Signed Signature Pages

6.

Burden Associated with Filing Withdrawal Form

E.

Retention Period of Recordkeeping Requirements

F.

Collection of Information is Mandatory

G.

Confidentiality

Economic Analysis
A.

Introduction and Broad Economic Considerations

B.

Baseline
1.

C.

i.

Dealing Structures and Participant Domiciles

ii.

Market Centers

iii.

Current Estimates of Number of SBS Dealers and Major SBS
Participants

2.

Levels of Security-Based Swap Trading Activity

3.

Cross-Market Participation

4.

Statutory Disqualification

Benefits of Registration
1.

2.
D.

Current Security-Based Swap Market

Direct Benefits
i.

Disciplinary History and Other Information

ii.

Statutory Disqualification

iii.

Senior Officer Certification and Nonresident Entity Certification

iv.

Other Direct Benefits

Indirect Benefits

Costs of Registration
1.

Direct Compliance Costs
4

2.

2.

Other Direct Costs
i.

Costs Related to the Disciplinary History Disclosure Requirement

ii.

Costs Related to Certifications

iii.

Costs Related to the Associated Person Requirements

iv.

Costs for Nonresident SBS Entities

Indirect Costs

E.

Effects on Efficiency, Competition, and Capital Formation

F.

Registration Rule Alternatives
1.

Associated Person Certification Requirement

2.

Licensing, Control Affiliates and CCO Certification Regarding Associated
Persons

3.

Requirements on Nonresidents

4.

Other Considerations

VI.

Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification

VII.

Statutory Basis

VIII.

Text of Final Amendments

I.

Background
A.

Dodd-Frank Act

Section 764 of the Dodd-Frank Act added Section 15F to the Exchange Act to require the
Commission to adopt rules to provide for registration of SBS Entities. Section 15F(a) of the
Exchange Act prohibits any person from acting as a “security-based swap dealer” 1 or “major

1

See Exchange Act Section 3(a)(71)(A) [15 U.S.C. 78c(71)(A)] and Rule 3a71–1 [17 CFR
240.3a71-1]. See also, Further Definition of “Swap Dealer,” “Security-Based Swap
Dealer,” “Major Swap Participant,” “Major Security-Based Swap Participant” and
“Eligible Contract Participant,” Exchange Act Release No. 66868 (Apr. 27, 2012), 77 FR
30596 (May 23, 2012) (“Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release”) and Application of
“Security-Based Swap Dealer” and “Major Security-Based Swap Participant” Definitions
to Cross-Border Security-Based Swap Activities, Exchange Act Release No. 72472 (Jun. 25,
2014), 79 FR 47278 (Aug. 12, 2014) (“Cross-Border Adopting Release”).

5

security-based swap participant” 2 without being registered with the Commission. 3 Section
15F(b)(1) further states that a person “shall register as a security-based swap dealer or major
security-based swap participant by filing a registration application with the Commission,” and
Section 15F(b)(2)(A) states that “[t]he application shall be made in such form and manner as
prescribed by the Commission, and shall contain such information, as the Commission considers
necessary concerning the business in which the applicant is or will be engaged.” In addition,
Section 15F(d)(1) of the Exchange Act directs the Commission to “adopt rules for persons that are
registered as [SBS Entities] under [Section 15F].”
B.

Proposed Rules

The Commission proposed new rules 15Fb1-1 through 15Fb6-1 and Forms SBSE, SBSE-A,
SBSE-BD, SBSE-C, and SBSE-W to establish a process by which SBS Entities could register (and
withdraw from registration) with the Commission. 4 As described in the Registration Proposing
Release, this process was designed to be comprehensive, and included, among other things: (1) a
requirement to amend an inaccurate application for registration; (2) procedures for succession to, or
withdrawal from, registration; (3) procedures for the Commission to cancel or revoke registration;
(4) a requirement for an SBS Entity to certify that none of its associated persons that effect, or are
involved in effecting, security-based swaps on the SBS Entity’s behalf is subject to statutory
2

See Exchange Act Section 3(a)(67)(A) [15 U.S.C. 78c(67)(A)] and Rule 3a67–1 [17 CFR
240.3a67-1]. See also, the Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release and Cross-Border
Adopting Release.

3

See Temporary Exemptions and Other Temporary Relief, Together With Information on
Compliance Dates for New Provisions of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Applicable to
Security-Based Swaps, Exchange Act Release No. 64678 (Jun. 15, 2011), 76 FR 36287,
36299-300 (Jun. 22, 2011) (the “Effective Date Release”).

4

Registration of Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap Participants,
Exchange Act Release No. 65543 (Oct. 12, 2011), 76 FR 65784 (Oct. 24, 2011) (the
“Registration Proposing Release”).

6

disqualification; and (5) special requirements applicable to nonresident SBS Entities relating to
service of process, opinion of counsel, Commission access to documents and Commission onsite
examinations.
The Commission re-proposed Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD in May 2013. 5 Among
other things, the re-proposed Forms provide registrants with a method to provide the Commission
with information regarding the registrant’s intent to rely on a substituted compliance determination
by the Commission with respect to those requirements in Exchange Act Section 15F and the rules
and regulations thereunder for which the Commission determines that substituted compliance may
be available.
In general, the proposed rules would have required an SBS Entity to register with the
Commission by filing either Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as appropriate,
electronically. The Commission would have then either granted conditional registration to the SBS
Entity or initiated proceedings to deny registration. Once all of the substantive requirements
applicable to SBS Entities were adopted by the Commission, the SBS Entity would have been
required to electronically file Form SBSE-C, a certification signed by a knowledgeable senior
officer stating that, to the best of that person’s knowledge the SBS Entity had the operational,
financial, and compliance capabilities to act as an SBS Dealer or Major SBS Participant, as
appropriate. Upon receipt of that certification, the Commission would have either granted ongoing
registration or instituted proceedings to deny such registration.

5

See Cross-Border Security-Based Swap Activities; Re-Proposal of Regulation SBSR and
Certain Rules and Forms Relating to the Registration of Security-Based Swap Dealers and
Major Security-Based Swap Participants, Exchange Act Release No. 69490 (May 1, 2013),
78 FR 30968 (May 23, 2013) (“Cross-Border Proposing Release”).

7

The Commission’s proposed registration requirements for SBS Entities were largely
modeled after the registration regime applicable to broker-dealers, 6 while also taking into account
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s (CFTC’s) registration requirements for
intermediaries. 7 This approach was designed to both ease the regulatory burden on market
participants that register as both an SBS Entity and a broker-dealer by establishing a consistent and
complementary registration regime, and to avoid unnecessary duplication by permitting SBS
Entities that are otherwise registered or registering as intermediaries with either the Commission or
the CFTC to complete simplified application forms.
C.

Comments Received

In the Registration Proposing Release, the Commission requested comment on all aspects of
the proposal, including specific questions and a number of more general requests. The Commission
originally received four comment letters in response to the proposed rules and forms. 8 The
Commission later received 31 additional comment letters in response to the reopening of comment
6

This includes rules promulgated under Sections 15(b) and 17(a) of the Exchange Act.

7

17 CFR 3.1 et. seq. Futures commission merchants (“FCMs”) and introducing brokers
presently register with the CFTC by filing Form 7-R with the National Futures Association
(“NFA”). On January 11, 2012, the CFTC issued final rules requiring swap dealers and
major swap participants to become and remain members of a registered futures association
(the NFA is presently the only registered futures association) and amending Rule 3.10 to
include swap dealers and major swap participants to the list of entities that must register by
filing Form 7-R with the NFA. Registration of Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants,
77 FR 2613 (Jan. 19, 2012) (the “CFTC Final Registration Rules”). At the same time, the
CFTC delegated to NFA the authority to process swap dealer and major swap participant
registration applications. See Performance of Registration Functions by National Futures
Association With Respect To Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants, 77 FR 2708 (Jan.
19, 2012).

8

Comments were received from Chris Barnard of Germany, dated Oct. 24, 2011 (the “2011
Barnard Letter”); the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association, dated Dec. 16,
2011 (the “SIFMA Letter”); and Better Markets, Inc., dated Dec. 19, 2011 (the “2011 Better
Markets Letter”). One other comment letter directed to the Registration Proposing Release
file did not address the content of that release.

8

periods for certain proposals applicable to security-based swaps. 9 Of those comment letters, one
letter (from six industry groups) requested an extension of time to provide comment, and six
specifically commented on the proposed registration process and forms. 10
The Commission also received 38 comment letters in response to the Cross-Border
Proposing Release, which re-proposed Regulation SBSR and certain rules and forms relating to the
registration of SBS Entities. 11 Of those, three commented on the proposed registration process and
forms. 12
While commenters generally supported the proposed rules, a few raised various concerns,
including whether a senior officer certification should be required; whether the Commission should
require an independent pre-registration review of applicants; whether the Commission should
require that SBS Entities investigate their associated persons; and whether nonresident applicants
should be required to provide an opinion of counsel as to whether they can provide records to the
Commission and allow the Commission to inspect them. Many commenters, while not commenting

9

Reopening of Comment Periods for Certain Rulemaking Releases and Policy Statement
Applicable to Security-Based Swaps Proposed Pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, Exchange Act
Release No. 69491 (May 1, 2013), 78 FR 30800 (May 23, 2013) (“Release Reopening the
Comment Period”).

10

See letters from: the Association of Financial Guaranty Insurers, dated Jul. 22, 2013 (the
“AFGI Letter”); Better Markets, Inc., dated Jul. 22, 2013 (the “2013 Better Markets
Letter”); the Institute of International Finance, dated Aug. 8, 2013 (the “IIF Letter”); the
Institute of International Bankers, dated Aug. 21, 2013 (the “IIB Letter”); the European
Commission, dated Aug. 21, 2013 (the “EC Letter”); and Nomura Global Financial
Products, Inc., dated September 10, 2014 (the “Nomura Letter”).

11

Twenty-five persons submitted the same comment letter in response to both the Release
Reopening the Comment Period and the Cross-Border Proposing Release.

12

All of those persons submitted the same letter to both the Release Reopening the Comment
Period and the Cross-Border Proposing Release. These include the IIF Letter, the IIB Letter,
and the EC Letter.

9

on the registration process, generally commented that the Commission should model its rules on
those adopted by the CFTC in order to reduce the impact on market participants.
D.

Summary of Final Rules

The registration rules and Forms the Commission is adopting today largely follow those
proposed, with certain modifications. 13 In particular, as explained more fully below, we are
adopting the following rules: 14

13

The Commission asked questions regarding limited registration in the Registration
Proposing Release. See Registration Proposing Release, 76 FR at 65795, questions 62
through 66. We received one comment on this issue, which contended that “the
Commission should allow for limited designation and registration, including by trading unit,
type of activity and type of counterparty.” See the SIFMA Letter, at 10-11. The
Commission later adopted Rule 3a71-1(c), in the Intermediary Definitions Adopting
Release, to provide that “a person that is a security-based swap dealer in general shall be
deemed to be a security-based swap dealer with respect to each security-based swap it enters
into, regardless of the type, class, or category of the security-based swap or the person’s
activities in connection with the security-based swap, unless the Commission limits the
person’s designation as a security-based swap dealer to specified types, classes, or
categories of security-based swaps or specified activities of the person in connection with
security-based swaps.” In that release, the Commission and the CFTC stated that the SEC
expects to address the process for submitting an application for limited designation as a
security-based swap dealer, along with principles to be used by the Commission in
analyzing such applications, as part of separate rulemakings. See Intermediary Definitions
Adopting Release, footnote 573. The Commission has not yet addressed a process through
which firms could submit an application for limited designation as a security-based swap
dealer. In order to evaluate a process for limited registration, the Commission would need to
consider how the substantive rules should be applied to entities that might be subject to
limited designations. In light of the fact that the Commission has not yet adopted all rules
implementing the Title VII regime that may affect how firms structure their security-based
swap business and market practices more generally, the Commission is not addressing
limited designation at this time.

14

If any provision of these rules, or the application thereof to any person or circumstance, is
held to be invalid, such invalidity shall not affect other provisions or application of such
provisions to other persons or circumstances that can be given effect without the invalid
provision or application.

10

•

Rule 15Fb1-1 specifies the format and certain requirements for signatures to electronic
submissions (including signatures within the forms and certifications required by Rules
15Fb2-1, 15Fb2-4 and 15Fb6-2, discussed below).

•

Rule 15Fb2-1 describes the process through which an SBS Entity can apply for
registration with the Commission. This Rule identifies the Form of application various
types of entities must use to register, how such application must be filed, and the
standard the Commission will use to determine whether to grant registration. Under
Rule 15Fb2-1, an application for registration of an SBS Entity must be filed on Form
SBSE, Form SBSE-A or Form SBSE-BD, as appropriate. An applicant also must file
Form SBSE-C as part of its application, which includes two separate certifications. One
of those certifications, provided for in Rule 15Fb2-1(b), requires a senior officer of the
applicant to certify that, after due inquiry, he or she has reasonably determined that the
applicant has developed and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably
designed to prevent violations of the federal securities laws and the rules thereunder, and
that he or she has documented the process by which he or she reached such
determination (the “Senior Officer Certification”).

•

Rule 15Fb2-3 requires an SBS Entity to promptly file an amendment where the
information contained in its Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as
applicable, or in any amendment thereto, is or has become inaccurate for any reason.

•

Rule 15Fb2-4 requires that nonresident SBS Entities obtain a U.S. agent for service of
process and an opinion of counsel determining that they can, as a matter of law, provide
the Commission with access to their books and records and submit to onsite
examination. Rule 15Fb2-4 also requires that, as part of their applications, these entities

11

provide the Commission with information regarding their agent for service of process
and certify that they can, as a matter of law, and will provide the Commission with
access to their books and records and submit to onsite examination.
•

Rule 15Fb2-5 provides a process through which an SBS Entity may succeed to the
business of another SBS Entity.

•

Rule 15Fb2-6 provides a process through which an executor, administrator, guardian,
conservator, assignee for the benefit of creditors, receiver, trustee in insolvency or
bankruptcy or other fiduciary appointed or qualified by order, judgment or decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction may continue the business of an SBS Entity.

•

Rule 15Fb3-1 concerns the duration of registration and provides that an SBS Entity will
continue to be registered until the effective date of any cancellation, revocation or
withdrawal of registration.

•

Rule 15Fb3-2 provides a process by which an SBS Entity may withdraw from
registration with the Commission.

•

Rule 15Fb3-3 provides a process by which the Commission may cancel or revoke the
registration of an SBS Entity.

•

Rule 15Fb6-1 provides that unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, when it files
an application to register with the Commission as an SBS Dealer or Major SBS
Participant, an SBS Entity may permit a person that is associated with it that is not a
natural person and that is subject to statutory disqualification to effect or be involved in
effecting security-based swaps on its behalf, provided that the statutory
disqualification(s), described in Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)), occurred prior to the compliance date of

12

this rule, and provided that it identifies each such associated person on Schedule C of
Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§249.1600a of this chapter), or
Form SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate.
•

Rule 15Fb6-2 requires that the Chief Compliance Officer (“CCO”) of an SBS Entity
certify on Form SBSE-C that it neither knows, nor in the exercise of reasonable care
should have known, that any person associated with it who effects or is involved in
effecting security-based swaps on its behalf is subject to statutory disqualification,
unless otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation or order of the Commission
(the “CCO Certification Regarding Associated Persons”). This rule also requires that to
support the certification, the CCO, or his or her designee, review and sign the
questionnaire or application for employment executed by each of the SBS Entity’s
associated persons who are natural persons and effect or are involved in effecting
security-based swaps on behalf of the SBS Entity.

In addition, the Commission is adopting the following forms:
•

Form SBSE-BD, the registration form for SBS Entities registered or registering with the
Commission as broker-dealers;

•

Form SBSE-A, the registration form for SBS Entities registered or registering with the
CFTC as swap dealers or major swap participants (and not also registered or registering
with the Commission as broker-dealers);

•

Form SBSE, the registration form for SBS Entities that do not fit either of the above
categories;

13

•

Form SBSE-C, the certification form for SBS entity applicants containing the Senior
Officer Certification required by Rule 15Fb2-1(b) and the CCO Certification Regarding
Associated Persons required by Rule 15Fb6-2(a).

•

Form SBSE-W, the form that SBS Entities would file for notice of withdrawal from
registration.

The Commission is not adopting proposed Rule 15Fb2-2T, which would have required SBS
Entities, among other things, to file their applications in paper form, because the EDGAR system
will be updated to receive these application Forms before the effective date of these rules. 15
In developing these rules and forms, Commission staff consulted and coordinated with the
CFTC and the prudential regulators. 16
II.

Final Exchange Act Rules and Forms
A.

Registration Application and Amendment
1.

Rule 15Fb2-1

Rule 15Fb2-1, as adopted, describes the process through which an SBS Entity will apply for
registration with the Commission. As set forth in the rule, each SBS Entity will complete and
submit an application Form electronically. The Rule also requires that a senior officer of the SBS
Entity must certify, on Form SBSE-C, that, after due inquiry, he or she has reasonably determined
that the SBS Entity has developed and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably
designed to prevent violations of the federal securities laws and the rules thereunder, and that he or
she has documented the process by which he or she reached such determination. In addition, the
15

See infra, Section II.A.1.iv.

16

Section 712(a)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act provides in part that the Commission shall “consult
and coordinate to the extent possible with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and
the prudential regulators for the purpose of assuring regulatory consistency and
comparability, to the extent possible.”

14

rule prescribes the timing of such filings and the standard of review that will be applied by the
Commission in determining whether to grant registration or institute proceedings to deny
registration. While it may be appropriate for certain rules applicable to SBS Dealers to differ from
those applicable to Major SBS Participants, the Commission believes that the registration rules and
forms need not differ because the of information the Commission will need to review to determine
whether to grant registration or institute proceedings to deny such registration is similar for both
types of entities.
i.

Form of Application

As proposed, paragraph (a) of Rule 15Fb2-1 provided that an SBS Entity could apply for
registration by filing either Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD. The Commission
proposed three separate Forms to recognize that, if an entity is already registered with the
Commission or the CFTC, the Commission can otherwise access certain information on that
registrant. 17
As proposed, an SBS Entity that has filed Form BD via FINRA’s Central Registration
Depository (or “CRD”) system to register as a broker-dealer would be able to use Form SBSE-BD
to register with the Commission as an SBS Entity. Similarly, an SBS Entity that has filed Form 7-R
with the CFTC (or its designee) to register as a swap dealer or major swap participant would be able

17

The Commission will be able to access information on registered broker-dealers through its
access to the CRD system. Form SBSE-A, which would apply to entities already registered
with the CFTC, requires that firms filing that form also submit a copy of the Form 7-R they
file with NFA. See 17 CFR 3.10(a) (which generally requires that “application for
registration as a futures commission merchant, retail foreign exchange dealer, swap dealer,
major swap participant, introducing broker, commodity pool operator, commodity trading
advisor, or leverage transaction merchant must be on Form 7–R, completed and filed with
the NFA in accordance with the instructions thereto”). See also supra, footnote 7.

15

to use Form SBSE-A to register with the Commission as an SBS Entity. 18 All others would be
required to use Form SBSE to register with the Commission as an SBS Entity. Form SBSE is,
necessarily, a longer form because the entities using it would not have already submitted any of the
requisite information the Commission can otherwise access. In the Cross-Border Proposing
Release, the Commission re-proposed these registration forms to add questions relating to
substituted compliance. 19
In general, commenters supported the application of SBS Entities via the use of these
multiple Forms. 20 The Commission is adopting paragraph (a) of Rule 15Fb2-1, as proposed, with
two modifications. We have added a sentence stating that applicants shall also file as part of their
application the required certifications on Form SBSE-C (§249.1600c of this chapter). This is
designed to clarify that the application for registration includes the certifications. 21 We also made a
technical change to increase the precision of paragraph (a) of Rule 15Fb2-1 by replacing the phrase
“in accordance with this section” with the phrase “in accordance with paragraph (c)” because
paragraph (c) specifies the method by which applicants must file their application forms. 22

18

According to the instructions on Form SBSE-A, the applicant would also need to attach a
copy of the Form 7-R they filed with NFA to the Form SBSE-A.

19

See supra, footnote 5 and accompanying text.

20

See 2011 Barnard Letter, at 3 and SIFMA Letter, at 4.

21

As discussed in more detail in Section II.A.iii. below, the requirement that an applicant file
the certifications on Form SBSE-C at the same time they file an application on Form SBSE,
SBSE-A, or SBSE-BD, as appropriate, facilitates conditional registration upon filing, which
is designed to assure that existing entities are not required to cease operations pending the
Commission’s consideration of their application. We have also moved the CCO
Certification Regarding Associated Persons, which had been included as Schedule G to the
Forms, into Form SBSE-C. As proposed, that certification would have been required to be
provided as part of Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD.

22

See infra, Section II.G. for a discussion of the information required on each of the Forms.

16

ii.

Senior Officer Certification

Proposed Rule 15Fb2-1(b)(1) and Form SBSE-C would have required that a knowledgeable
senior officer of the SBS Entity certify that, after due inquiry, he or she has reasonably determined
that the SBS Entity has the operational, financial, and compliance capabilities to act as an SBS
Entity. In addition, the proposed Rule would have required that the senior officer certify that he or
she had documented the process by which he or she reached that determination. 23
Two commenters took issue with the proposed Senior Officer Certification. 24 One
commenter indicated that it believes the Senior Officer Certification is unnecessary, overly
burdensome, and unduly vague and indeterminate. 25 This commenter pointed out that the untested
nature of the Dodd-Frank regulatory regime would make it difficult for any senior officer to
confidently or meaningfully certify that an SBS Entity would have the necessary capabilities. 26
Both commenters contended that the Commission had not adequately defined “operational,
financial, and compliance capabilities” nor what constitutes “due inquiry.” 27 Further, one of the
commenters suggested that, as an alternative, the Commission require a “policies and procedures”type certification, such as that set forth in Question 21 to the Registration Proposing Release. 28
23

As proposed, this was a one-time certification (see Registration Proposing Release, 76 FR at
65810), where a senior officer would be certifying as to the SBS Entity’s capabilities at the
time of the certification (see Registration Proposing Release, at 65789-91).

24

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter, at 5-7; 2011 and the Better Markets Letter, at 5-6.

25

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter, at 5-7.

26

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter, at 5.

27

See supra, footnote 24.

28

See SIFMA Letter, at 6; and Registration Proposing Release, 76 FR at 65791. In pertinent
part, Question 21 asks, “Should the Senior Officer Certification instead require that a senior
officer certify that ‘to the best of his or her knowledge, after due inquiry, the security-based
swap dealer or major security-based swap participant has developed and implemented
written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of federal securities
laws, the rules thereunder, and applicable self-regulatory organization rules?’”
17

As more fully discussed below, after considering the comments, we believe that we can still
achieve the objective of the Senior Officer Certification, while avoiding undue uncertainty over
what the senior officer is certifying to, by adopting a certification requirement similar to the one
articulated in Question 21 in the Registration Proposing Release.
Specifically, the Senior Officer Certification requirement, as adopted in Rule 15Fb2-1(b)
and Form SBSE-C, requires that a senior officer 29 certify that: (1) after due inquiry, he or she has
reasonably determined that the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant
has developed and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent
violation of federal securities laws and the rules thereunder, and (2) he or she has documented the
process by which he or she reached such determination. 30 The language of this certification is

29

For purposes of this certification requirement, the term “senior officer” is intended to cover
only the most senior executives in the organization, such as an applicant’s chief executive
officer, chief financial officer, chief legal officer, chief compliance officer, president, or
other person at a similar level. Additionally, the person who signs the certification must
have the legal authority to bind the applicant.

30

See Form SBSE-C, Certification 1. Similar to what was proposed, this is a one-time
certification, for purposes of registration, where the senior officer certifies as to his or her
understanding of the SBS Entity’s policies and procedures at the time the certification is
signed. While this certification is only required at the time of initial registration, Exchange
Act Section 15F(k)(2) establishes duties for a CCO which include, among other things, a
requirement that the CCO ensure compliance with Exchange Act Section 15F and the
regulations thereunder relating to security-based swaps, including each rule prescribed by
the Commission under this section. In addition, the Commission has proposed rules that
would require each SBS Entity to establish, maintain and enforce a system to supervise, and
to supervise diligently, the business of the SBS Entity involving security-based swaps.
Those proposed rules would require that this system be reasonably designed to achieve
compliance with applicable federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder.
See Proposed Rule 15Fh–3(i). In addition, the proposed rules would require that an SBS
Entity establish, maintain, and enforce written policies and procedures addressing the types
of business in which the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
participant is engaged that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable
securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. See Proposed Rule 15Fh3(i)(2)(iii). The proposed rules also indicate that an SBS Entity would not be deemed to
have failed to diligently supervise any other person if, among other things, it has established
18

similar to the language in Question 21, and to the language that was supported by the commenter. 31
However, we retained the requirement for the senior officer to have made a reasonable
determination from the proposed certification, and modified the language from what was presented
in Question 21 to eliminate the reference to “applicable self-regulatory organization rules” because
SBS Entities generally will not be subject to those rules. 32 In addition, we retained the proposed
requirement that the senior officer certify that he or she had documented the process by which he or
she reached his or her determination. We received no comment on that aspect of the certification
and believe it would be helpful to the staff when performing examinations to assure compliance
with the certification requirement.
We believe the certification standard that we are adopting in Rule 15Fb2-1(b) and Form
SBSE-C is more concrete and understandable than the one that we proposed. 33 Thus, it should be
easier for SBS Entities to implement. Further, we believe that the Senior Officer Certification we
are adopting is reasonably designed to provide assurances that each SBS Entity has put in place a
framework to enable it to operate in compliance with the applicable laws, rules and regulations.
The certification requirement should help to protect both investors and markets from potential
and maintained written policies and procedures, and a documented system for applying
those policies and procedures, that would reasonably be expected to prevent and detect,
insofar as practicable, any violation of the federal securities laws and the rules and
regulations thereunder relating to security-based swaps. See Proposed Rule 15Fh-3(i)(3).
See also, Business Conduct Standards for Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major SecurityBased Swap Participants, Exchange Act Release No. 64766 (Jun. 29, 2011), 76 FR 42396
(Jul. 18, 2011) (the “Business Conduct Standards Proposing Release”), at 42419 through
42421.
31

See supra, footnote 28.

32

SBS Entities that are also registered as broker-dealers are subject to the rules of a selfregulatory organization (“SRO”) of which they are a member due to their being a registered
broker-dealer.

33

This standard is used in Exchange Act Section 15(b)(4)(E) and we believe industry
participants are familiar with it.

19

problems arising from SBS Entities that may have not put in place a framework that enables them to
operate their security-based swap business in compliance with their regulatory obligations. 34
Specifically, we believe that receipt of the Senior Officer Certification in Form SBSE-C, which
requires that a senior officer certify that he or she has reasonably determined that the SBS Entity has
developed and implemented written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent
violation of federal securities laws and the rules thereunder, is further support that an SBS Entity
has undertaken a thorough review of applicable regulations, including any rules adopted by the
Commission relating to minimum operational, financial, and compliance standards. 35 In essence,
this Senior Officer Certification is designed to help assure that each SBS Entity has thought through

34

See Registration Proposing Release, at 65789 through 65790.

35

The Commission has separately proposed rules to establish financial, operational and
compliance standards for SBS Entities, with which these entities would need to comply
upon registration, if the Commission were to adopt the proposed rules. In the Registration
Proposing Release, the Commission provided guidance regarding the meaning of the terms
operational capability (at footnote 26), financial capability (at footnote 27), and compliance
capability (at footnote 28). In its guidance regarding operational capability (or standards),
the Commission stated that it expected “that a key foundation for the Senior Officer
Certification would be the capability of an SBS Entity to comply with the obligations that
would be imposed by the Trade Acknowledgment Proposing Release [Trade
Acknowledgment and Verification of Security-Based Swap Transactions, Exchange Act
Release No. 63727 (Jan. 14, 2011) (76 FR 3859, Jan. 21, 2011) (the “Trade
Acknowledgment Proposing Release”)], if adopted, other legal obligations applicable to the
operations of an SBS Entity, and the capability of the SBS Entity to conduct its business as
represented in the SBS Entity’s application for ongoing registration. This would include
rules proposed in Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements for Security-Based Swap
Dealers, Major Security-Based Swap Participants, and Broker-Dealers; Capital Rule for
Certain Security- Based Swap Dealers, Exchange Act Release No. 71958, (Apr. 17, 2014)
(79 FR 25194, May 2, 2014) (the “Books and Records Proposing Release”). In its guidance
regarding financial capability, the Commission indicated that it would separately propose
capital rules for SBS Entities (See e.g., Capital, Margin, and Segregation Requirements for
Security-Based Swap Dealers and Major Security-Based Swap Participants and Capital
Requirements for Broker-Dealers, Exchange Act Release No. 68071 (Oct. 18, 2012), 77 FR
70214 (Nov. 23, 2012) (the “Capital and Margin Proposing Release”). In its guidance
regarding compliance capability, the Commission referenced the Business Conduct
Standards Proposing Release.

20

what it needs to do to be able to operate in compliance with those requirements applicable to a
registered SBS Entity under the federal securities laws (including those related to operations,
financial and compliance standards), and has developed and implemented written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of those laws, rules, and regulations. 36
Another commenter, however, contended that, while the proposed process to require an
application and certification would establish a registration process that is simple and efficient, the
approach taken would be ineffective and would rely too much on the industry and on each entity
seeking registration. 37 This commenter suggested that the Commission independently review SBS
Entities prior to granting registration. 38 This commenter argued that requiring SEC pre-registration
investigations would harmonize the registration process for SBS Entities with others (including
SRO review of broker-dealers and NFA review of swap entities), reduce regulatory arbitrage, and
protect investors. This commenter also suggested, in the alternative, that we should require each
SBS Entity to have an independent auditor conduct a pre-registration review. 39
The Commission is not, at this time, adopting the commenter’s suggestion that the
Commission conduct a pre-registration examination of each applicant, or that we require an

36

In the Business Conduct Standards Proposing Release the Commission proposed rules to
prescribe business conduct standards for SBS Entities, as authorized under Exchange Act
Section 15F(h) and 15F(k), including rules that relate to diligent supervision of the business
of the registered SBS Entity (provided for in Exchange Act Section 15F(h)(1)(B)) and rules
establishing the duties of the SBS Entity’s CCO (provided for in Exchange Act Section
15F(k)). The Commission intends to clarify the obligations underlying these rules when it
adopts rules under Exchange Act Sections 15F(h) and 15F(k).

37

See 2011 Better Markets Letter, at 2.

38

Id., at 3-4.

39

Id., at 5. The commenter did not specify what a pre-registration review by an independent
auditor should entail.

21

applicant to obtain a pre-registration review from an independent auditor. 40 The Commission does
not presently conduct pre-registration reviews for other types of market intermediary applicants,
such as investment advisers, municipal advisors and transfer agents, or require that they obtain a
pre-registration examination from an independent auditor. We recognize that SROs perform preregistration reviews for broker-dealers, however, the Exchange Act does not create an SRO
structure for SBS Entities. 41 The Commission believes that the Senior Officer Certification that
applicants must submit should help ensure that each applicant itself has thoroughly reviewed what it
must do to comply with applicable federal securities laws and the rules thereunder. In addition, the
CCO Certification Regarding Associated Persons is designed to provide the Commission with
representations that each applicant has determined that none of its associated persons who effect or
are involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf is subject to a statutory disqualification,
unless otherwise specifically provided by Commission rule, regulation or order. 42 Additionally, the
Commission will review all of the documents and other information provided by the applicants on
the required Form. The Commission also may, based on an initial assessment of an application,
request follow-up information from the applicant. 43 The Commission believes that its review of the
information provided in the application, coupled with the Senior Officer Certification as discussed
above, is a reasonable approach to registration.

40

As with any new class of registrants, Commission staff will incorporate oversight of those
registrants into its examination program to review for compliance with the federal securities
laws, rules and regulations.

41

See infra, footnote 46 and accompanying text.

42

See infra, Section II.B.3.

43

In the case of an entity registered with the CFTC through NFA, the staff may contact the
CFTC or NFA to discuss the application.

22

As noted above, commenters asked that we clarify what we mean by “due inquiry” in the
certification requirement. 44 Essentially, the senior officer should perform diligence regarding the
content of what he or she is required to certify. We believe, however, that SBS Entities should have
flexibility to determine the steps that the senior officer who must sign the certification will take to
be comfortable that he or she has made appropriate inquiries regarding the SBS Entity’s written
policies and procedures in order to make the certification. For instance, a senior officer might
review the SBS Entity’s written policies and procedures and/or speak with the SBS Entity’s legal
and compliance personnel regarding the SBS Entity’s written policies and procedures, how they
were developed, and how they have been implemented by the SBS Entity. Alternatively, there may
be one or more senior officers that are already familiar with the SBS Entity’s written policies and
procedures and how they have been developed and implemented. It would not be appropriate for a
senior officer with little or no knowledge of the firm’s written policies and procedures, or its
processes to comply with applicable regulations, to sign this certification without taking any steps to
learn more information. In light of this, we also have eliminated the requirement that the senior
officer signing the form be “knowledgeable” because inclusion of the requirement that the senior
officer be “knowledgeable” in addition to requiring that the senior office make “due inquiry” would
be unnecessary.
One commenter also contended that this requirement differed from the CFTC’s registration
requirements for swap entities, and that the lack of a similar certification requirement in the CFTC’s
proposed registration rule “provides further evidence that such a requirement is not needed to
promote financial stability or investor protection.” 45 While this certification requirement differs

44

See SIFMA Letter at 6.

45

See id.

23

from rules adopted by the CFTC to register swap dealers and major swap participants, the
Commodity Exchange Act (“CEA”) and the Exchange Act differ in some respects. While the
provisions in the CEA directly relating to swap dealers and major swap participants are similar to
those in the Exchange Act relating to SBS Entities, other CEA provisions provide the CFTC with
the ability to require swap dealers and major swap participants to become members of NFA, and
thus leverage the existing registration process and forms (including a pre-registration review by
NFA) used by other CFTC registrants. 46 However, Exchange Act Sections 15A(a) and 3(a)(3)(B)
limit the membership of national securities associations to brokers and dealers. In light of the fact
that SBS Entities are not subject to SRO oversight, and thus are not subject to the registration
review process of an SRO, the adopted Senior Officer Certification is designed to cause SBS
Entities to consider whether they have taken steps to thoroughly review the federal securities laws
and the rules thereunder that are applicable to SBS Entities and develop and implement written
policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to prevent violation of the those laws, rules
and regulations.
iii.

Conditional Registration

The Commission proposed in Rule 15Fb2-1 a conditional registration requirement that
would have required an SBS Entity to apply for conditional registration by submitting a complete
Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD to the Commission, then file a Senior Officer

46

CEA Section 17(b)(2) permits any CFTC registrant to become a member of a registered
futures association (i.e., NFA) and CEA Section 8a(5) gives the CFTC rulemaking authority
“to effectuate any of the provisions or to accomplish any of the purposes of this Act.” In
addition, CEA Section 4s(b)(4) gives the CFTC general authority to prescribe rules
applicable to swap dealers and major swap participants.

24

Certification (on Form SBSE-C) 47 before the Last Compliance Date 48 to facilitate the Commission’s
review of each firm’s application for ongoing, permanent registration. The Commission proposed
conditional registration as a way to register SBS Entities within the Dodd-Frank Act deadline, while
allowing SBS Entities to come into compliance with new rules on each respective compliance date
and then providing the certification after the last compliance date. 49
The Commission is adopting a conditional registration process, but with changes to take into
account the adopted definitions of SBS Dealer and Major SBS Participant, the timing of the
compliance date for registration (see Section III below), and the modification to the certification.
Pursuant to Rules 3a71-2 and 3a67-8, upon filing of a complete application, a person is
deemed to be an SBS Dealer or a Major SBS Participant, respectively. 50 However, Exchange Act

47

Form SBSE-C was designed to provide a standard format by which SBS Entities could file
their Senior Officer Certifications (discussed in Section II.1.ii., supra).

48

The term “Last Compliance Date” was defined, in paragraph (e) to proposed Rule 15Fb2-1,
to mean the latest date, designated by the Commission, by which SBS Entities must comply
with any of the initial, substantive rules promulgated under Section 15F.

49

See also infra Sections II.A.1.v., which discusses the proposed standard for granting
conditional registration in proposed Rule 15Fb2-1(e)(1), and II.C.1., which discusses the
proposed timing of conditional registration in proposed Rule 15Fb3-1.

50

Pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 3a71-2(b), a person will be deemed not to be a securitybased swap dealer until the earlier of the date on which it submits a complete application for
registration or two months after the end of the month in which that person becomes no
longer able to take advantage of the de minimis exception. Rule 3a71-2(b). Similarly, a
person that meets the criteria in Rule 3a67-1(a) to be a major security-based swap
participant will be deemed not to be a major security-based swap participant until the earlier
of the date on which it submits a complete application for registration or two months after
the quarter in which it met those criteria. See Rule 3a67-8. See also, Intermediary
Definitions Adopting Release which, among other things, further defines the terms
“security-based swap dealer” and “major security-based swap participant.” In that release,
adopted jointly with the CFTC, the Commission adopted Rule 3a71-2, which provides a de
minimis exemption from the definition of “security-based swap dealer,” and provided
timeframes within which an entity must register with the Commission after it exceeds the de
minimis threshold [at 77 FR 30643, 30754 and 30756]. The Commission also adopted Rule
3a67-8, which establishes the timing requirements within which a person must register with
25

Section 15F(a) makes it unlawful for a person to act as an SBS Entity unless the person is registered
as such with the Commission. Consequently, we believe it is necessary and appropriate to provide
conditional registration for SBS Entities upon the filing of a complete application on Form SBSE,
SBSE-A, or SBSE-BD, as applicable, and Form SBSE-C so that existing entities are not required to
cease operations during the Commission’s consideration of their application. Thus, we are adopting
a conditional registration process to permit applicants to continue engaging in security-based swap
activities after they file an application to register as an SBS Entity but before the Commission acts
on their application for ongoing registration.
Under the rule as adopted, an applicant must submit the Senior Officer Certification on
Form SBSE-C at the same time it submits its Form SBSE, SBSE-A or SBSE-BD, as applicable.
Given that the compliance date for the SBS Entity registration rules is not immediate and we have
amended Form SBSE-C to include a modified Senior Officer Certification along with the CCO
Certification Regarding Associated Persons, the certifications will be a necessary part of the
Commission’s determination of whether to grant, or institute proceedings to deny, ongoing
registration. Consequently, applicants must file the certifications on Form SBSE-C as part of their
applications at the same time they file Form SBSE, SBSE-A, or SBSE-BD, as applicable. Thus,
paragraph (d) of new Rule 15Fb2-1 states that a person that has filed a complete Form SBSE-C and
Form SBSE, SBSE-A, or SBSE-BD, as applicable, with the Commission in accordance with
paragraph (c) within the time periods set forth in Exchange Act rules 3a67-8 and 3a71-2, as
applicable, and has not withdrawn from registration, 51 will be conditionally registered. 52

the Commission if it meets the criteria in Rule 3a67–1 to be a major security-based swap
participant.
51

A conditionally registered SBS Entity would withdraw from registration by filing Form
SBSE-W as described in more detail below in Section II.C.2.

26

An applicant will be considered to be conditionally registered upon filing a complete
application, but will not have ongoing registration until the Commission takes action to grant such
registration. In that regard, final Rule 15Fb3-1(b), discussed more fully below, provides that a
person conditionally registered as an SBS Entity will continue to be so registered until the date the
registrant withdraws from registration or the Commission grants or denies the person’s ongoing
registration in accordance with Rule 15Fb2-1(e).
iv.

Electronic Filing and Completeness of the Application

Paragraph (c)(1) of proposed Rule 15Fb2-1 would have established that the application,
certification, and any additional registration documents would need to be filed electronically with
the Commission or its designee. In addition, paragraph (c)(2) of proposed Rule 15Fb2-1 would
have provided that an SBS Entity’s application submitted pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) will be
considered filed only when a complete Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as
appropriate, and all required additional documents are filed with the Commission or its designee. In
addition, the Commission proposed temporary Rule 15Fb2-2T to require SBS Entities to, among
other things, file their applications on Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as
applicable, and all additional documents in paper form by sending them in hard-copy to the
Commission, notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of Rule 15Fb2-1, if the development of an electronic
system to receive those Forms was not yet functional by the time final rules were adopted.
The Commission stated in the Registration Proposing Release that it “[anticipated] that the
EDGAR system will be expanded to facilitate registration of SBS Entities because it likely would
52

Once an SBS Entity is conditionally registered, all of the Commission’s rules applicable to
registered SBS Entities will apply to the entity and it must comply with them. For instance,
a conditionally registered SBS Entity will be required to comply with any recordkeeping
rules applicable to SBS Entities. In addition, the staff may choose to conduct an
examination of a conditionally registered firm.

27

provide the most cost-effective solution.” 53 In addition, the instructions to proposed Forms SBSE,
SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD all indicated that “[t]he applicant must file [the Form] through the EDGAR
system, and must utilize the EDGAR Filer Manual (as defined in 17 CFR 232. 11) to file and amend
[the Form] electronically to assure the timely acceptance and processing of those filings.”
One commenter stated that its members believe that the use of the EDGAR system to
facilitate registration may raise technological issues for entities whose computer systems cannot
access the EDGAR system because of incompatible security protocols or technology. 54 This
commenter suggested that the Commission should provide at least six months between the adoption
of final rules and the effective date of the registration requirement to allow for resolution of these
types of issues.
The Commission is adopting proposed paragraph (c)(1) regarding the electronic filing
requirement substantially as proposed. Thus, paragraph (c)(1) of Rule 15Fb2-1 will require
applications and any additional documents to be filed electronically with the Commission through
the Commission’s EDGAR system. 55 Given the timing of the compliance date for these rules (see
Section III below), we believe firms will have sufficient time to work out any technological issues

53

See the Registration Proposing Release, at 65793.

54

See SIFMA Letter, at 3.

55

As discussed in the Registration Proposing Release, because the registration forms will be
required to be submitted through EDGAR, the electronic filing requirements of Regulation
S–T will apply. See 17 CFR 232 (governing the electronic submission of documents filed
with the Commission). General information about EDGAR is available at
http://www.sec.gov/info/edgar.shtml, where the EDGAR Filer Manual can also be accessed.
The EDGAR Filer Manual contains all the technical specifications for filers to submit filings
using the EDGAR system. The Commission recommends that applicants read this filer
manual before they begin using the system. Generally, entities filing documents in
electronic format through the EDGAR system must comply with the applicable provisions
of the EDGAR Filer Manual in order to assure the timely acceptance and processing of those
filings.

28

associated with filing registration forms through the Commission’s EDGAR system. The
Commission is not adopting Rule 15Fb2-2T because the EDGAR system will be updated to receive
these application Forms before the compliance date of these rules.
In the Registration Proposing Release, the Commission also discussed the possibility of
requiring firms to “tag” data submitted using a computer markup language that can be processed by
software programs for analysis (such as eXtensible Markup Language (XML) and eXtensible
Business Reporting Language (XBRL)). 56 At that time we indicated that collecting the information
in a standardized format would allow us to make the information available to the public in a format
that makes it easier to review and manipulate. 57 We received no comments on the possible use of
XML or XBRL.
The process we will use to collect the Forms, and the data contained thereon, is consistent
with what was proposed. The Forms are being developed with a graphical user interface that will
allow users to complete a fillable Form on the EDGAR website. 58 As the data will be collected in a
structured format, we believe it is not necessary to require that SBS Entities submit the information
in a “tagged” format. Collecting the data in a structured format will allow us to make the data
public in a manner that will enable users of that data to retrieve, search, and analyze the data
through automated means.
We are also planning to allow a batch filing process utilizing the XML tagged data format
that firms could use to upload application information to the EDGAR system. Applicants and SBS
Entities will not be required to utilize this process, but may choose to do so. We believe that some
56

See Registration Proposing Release, 76 FR at 65806.

57

Id.

58

To access the Forms, applicants will need to complete the Form ID process and obtain a CIK
number and passcode from the Commission.

29

applicants and/or SBS entities may prefer to register or amend their Forms using the batch XML
format because it would allow them to automate aspects of the registration process, which may
minimize burdens and generate efficiencies. This may be especially true for firms that are already
using Edgar’s Filer Constructed Submissions capabilities to submit other forms.

In connection

with the batch filing process, we anticipate publishing a taxonomy of XML data tags in advance of
the compliance date for SBS Entity registration for use by filers taking advantage of the optional
batch submission process. 59
The Commission received no comments on paragraph (c)(2) of proposed Rule 15Fb2-1, and
is adopting that paragraph, substantially as proposed. 60
v.

Standards for Granting or Instituting Proceedings to Determine
whether to Deny Registration

Paragraph (d) of proposed Rule 15Fb2-1 would have provided that the Commission may
grant or deny applications for conditional and ongoing registration, and set forth the standards the
Commission would use to make that determination. In particular, paragraph (d)(1) of the proposed
rule specified that the Commission would grant conditional registration if it found the applicant’s
application was complete, and paragraph (d)(2) specified that the Commission would grant ongoing
registration if it finds that the requirements of Exchange Act Section 15F(b) are satisfied. Proposed
paragraph (d)(1) also indicated that the Commission may institute proceedings to determine whether
conditional registration should be denied if it found that that the applicant is subject to a statutory
disqualification (as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)) or if the Commission was aware of inaccurate
59

Use of such an XML taxonomy will allow the Commission to normalize the data received
using the batch filing process with the data collected through the use of the structured Forms
and thereby make the data available to the public in a seamless way.

60

We modified the rule text of proposed Rule 15Fb2-1(c)(2) to eliminate the phrase “or its
designee.” As applications will be submitted through the Commission’s EDGAR system,
they will not be submitted to any designee.

30

statements in the application. In addition, proposed paragraph (d)(2) indicated that the Commission
may institute proceedings to determine whether ongoing registration should be denied if it found
that the requirements of Exchange Act Section 15F(b) had not been satisfied, the applicant is subject
to a statutory disqualification (as defined in Exchange Act Section 78c(a)(39)), or if the
Commission is aware of inaccurate statements in the application or certification. Paragraph (d)(2)
also stated that the Commission may grant or deny ongoing registration based on an SBS Entity’s
application and certification, and that a conditionally registered SBS Entity need not submit a new
application to apply for ongoing registration, but must amend its application, as required pursuant to
§240.15Fb2-3. The Commission received no comments on proposed paragraph (d).
As discussed above, we have made conditional registration automatic upon submission of a
complete application, which includes Form SBSE-C and Form SBSE, SBSE-A or SBSE-BD, as
applicable. Paragraph (d) of Rule 15Fb2-1 as adopted states that an applicant that has submitted a
complete Form SBSE-C and a complete Form SBSE, SBSE-A, or SBSE-BD, as applicable, in
accordance with Rule 15Fb2-1(c) within the time periods set forth in Rule 3a67-8 (if the person is a
Major SBS Participant) or Rule 3a71-2(b) (if the person is an SBS Dealer), and has not withdrawn
its registration shall be conditionally registered. 61 Therefore, we are not adopting the proposed
standards for granting conditional registration or instituting proceedings to determine whether to
deny conditional registration.
The Commission is adopting the standards for making a determination to grant or deny
ongoing registration proposed in paragraph (d)(2) with two modifications, and renumbering it as
paragraph (e) to Rule 15Fb2-1. First, we amended the reference to Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39).
As described in Section II.B. below in the discussion about proposed Rule 15Fb6-1, Exchange Act
61

See supra, Section II.A.1.iii.

31

Section 15F(b)(6) uses the term “statutory disqualification,” but the definition of statutory
disqualification in the Exchange Act specifically relates to a person’s association with an SRO. 62
To address this inconsistency, we amended the rule text to replace the phrase “as defined in Section
3(a)(39) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934” with the phrase “as described in Sections
3(a)(39)(A) – (F) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.” This updated cross-reference
incorporates the underlying issues that give rise to statutory disqualification without reference to
SRO membership. 63 In addition, we added the phrase “or cannot” to clarify that we may institute
proceedings to deny where we are unable to make a finding due to, for example, a lack of necessary
information.
Rule 15Fb2-1(e) as adopted states that the Commission may deny or grant ongoing
registration to an SBS Dealer or Major SBS Participant based on an SBS Dealer’s or Major SBS
Participant’s application, filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section. In addition, Rule 15Fb21(e) as adopted provides that the Commission will grant ongoing registration if it finds that the
requirements of Exchange Act Section 15F(b) are satisfied. Further, Rule 15Fb2-1(e) provides that
the Commission may institute proceedings to determine whether ongoing registration should be
denied if it does not or cannot make such finding, if the applicant is subject to a statutory
disqualification (described in Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Exchange Act), or the
Commission is aware of inaccurate statements in the application, and that such proceedings shall
include notice of the grounds for denial under consideration and opportunity for hearing. Finally,
the rule states that at the conclusion of such proceedings, the Commission shall grant or deny such
62

See infra footnote 78 and accompanying text.

63

We intend for this description to parallel Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39). If Congress were
to amend the definition of statutory disqualification in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39), we
believe it would be appropriate for the Commission to consider amending Rule 15Fb6-2 to
assure that this description remains consistent with the statutory definition.

32

registration. The Commission intends to notify entities electronically through the EDGAR system
when registration is granted, and will make information regarding registration status publicly
available on EDGAR.
As indicated above, final Rule 15Fb2-1(e) also states that such proceedings will include
notice of the grounds for denial under consideration and opportunity for hearing, and that at the
conclusion of the proceedings, the Commission shall grant or deny such registration. An applicant
would have the opportunity (once proceedings are commenced) to provide information as to why
the Commission should grant registration.
In addition, as ongoing registration is no longer contingent on an applicant filing a Form
SBSE-C after the “Last Compliance Date,” but rather the certification must be filed as part of the
initial submission of the application, we removed the language in proposed Rule 15Fb2-1(d)(2)
stating that a conditionally registered SBS Entity need not submit a new application to apply for
ongoing registration. We also revised the cross-references given the fact that the requirement to file
a certification on Form SBSE-C is now included in paragraph (a) rather than paragraph (b).
vi.

Comments on Substituted Compliance

In the Cross Border Proposing Release, the Commission proposed Rule 3a71-5 to facilitate
certain substituted compliance determinations by the Commission for foreign SBS Dealers. 64
Paragraph (a)(3) of that proposed rule specified that the Commission would not make a substituted
compliance determination with respect to registration requirements described in Sections 15F(a) –
(d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder.
One commenter urged the Commission to consider conditions upon which it could allow
appropriate foreign market participants to satisfy the registration requirements through compliance
64

See Cross-Border Proposing Release, at 31207-8.

33

with the relevant requirements in their home jurisdictions, with appropriate notice of such
compliance to the SEC. 65 This commenter urged the Commission not to delay its implementation
of its proposed rules to address this issue but to keep consideration “open in order to achieve the full
benefits of substituted compliance over the full range of regulatory issues in due course.” 66
After further considering the purposes of our proposed approach to substituted compliance,
the Commission continues to believe that substituted compliance should not be available for SBS
Entity Registration. Requiring foreign persons that engage in security-based swap dealing activity
at levels above the SBS Dealer de minimis threshold to register serves an important regulatory
function that would be significantly impaired by permitting substituted compliance.
Specifically, the Commission has inspection and examination authority over registered SBS
Entities, including access to relevant books and records. 67 As we have noted, “this approach to
territorial application of Title VII provides a reasonable means of helping to ensure that our
regulatory framework focuses on security-based swap activity that is most likely to raise the
concerns that Congress intended to address in Title VII.” 68 The Commission’s inspection and
examination authority is part of proper oversight of such dealers, and any limitation on oversight of
foreign registered SBS Dealers would impair the Commission’s effective regulation of these firms
and their security-based swap transactions because it would deprive the Commission of a full

65

See IIF Letter, at 3-4.

66

See id. at 4.

67

See Exchange Act Section 15F(f)(1)(C) (requiring registered security-based swap dealers
and registered major security-based swap participants to keep books and records “open to
inspection and examination by any representative of the Commission”).

68

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, at 47288.

34

picture of their business. 69 Permitting a foreign SBS Dealer to satisfy these requirements through
compliance with the relevant requirements in its home jurisdiction, even with appropriate notice of
such compliance to the Commission, may deprive the Commission of the necessary information,
including information resulting from inspection and examination of the books and records of a firm
engaged in dealing activity at levels above the de minimis threshold.
As we have previously noted, access to books and records is necessary to ensure that the
Commission is able to monitor the market for abusive and manipulative practices connected with
security-based swap activity in the United States. 70 Accordingly, we are not providing for
substituted compliance in the context of the registration requirement. 71 The Commission intends to

69

See Cross-Border Proposing Release, at 31015. See also, Application of Certain Title VII
Requirements to Security-Based Swap Transactions Connected With a Non-U.S. Person’s
Dealing Activity That Are Arranged, Negotiated, or Executed by Personnel Located in a
U.S. Branch or Office or in a U.S. Branch or Office of an Agent, Exchange Act Release No.
74834 (Apr. 29, 2015), 80 FR 27444 (May 13, 2015) (the “Cross-Border Activity Proposing
Release”), at footnote 163 and accompanying text (noting that the Commission must have
access to books and records of firms that engage in dealing activity in the United States to
effectively monitor the market for abusive and manipulative conduct). For this reason, the
Commission is also adopting a rule that would require nonresident security-based swap
dealers to certify that they can, as a matter of law, and will provide the Commission with
access to their books and records and submit to onsite examination. See infra, Section
II.D.3.

70

See Cross-Border Activity Proposing Release, at 27466. We have also noted that Title VII
recordkeeping requirements will likely be the Commission’s primary tool in monitoring
compliance with applicable securities laws, including the antifraud provisions of these laws.
See id. See also Requirements for Security-Based Swap Dealers, Major Security-Based
Swap Participants, and Broker-Dealers; Capital Rule for Certain SBSDs; Proposed Rules,
Exchange Act Release No. 71958 (April 17, 2014), 79 FR 25194, 25199 (May 2, 2014)
(citing Commission Guidance to Broker-Dealers on the Use of Electronic Storage Media
under the Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act of 2000 with Respect
to Rule 17a–4(f), Exchange Act Release No. 44238 (May 1, 2001), 66 FR 22916 (May 7,
2001); Books and Records Requirements for Brokers and Dealers Under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, Exchange Act Release No. 44992 (October 26, 2001), 66 FR 55818
(November 2, 2001)).

71

Given the importance of ensuring that we have the ability to inspect and examine every
security-based swap dealer whose relevant dealing activity exceeds the security-based swap
35

consider the potential availability of substituted compliance in connection with other requirements
applicable to SBS Dealers, when the Commission considers final rules to implement those
requirements.
2.

Amendments to Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, and Form SBSE-BD: Rule
15Fb2-3

As proposed, Rule 15Fb2-3 would have required an SBS Entity to promptly file an
amendment electronically with the Commission, or its designee to amend its application to correct
any information it determines was, or had become, inaccurate for any reason. The Commission
indicated in the release that the proposed rule was based on Exchange Act Rule 15b3-1, applicable
to registered broker-dealers, which has worked well to assure that broker-dealers promptly amend
their applications. 72 In addition, the Commission indicated that, for purposes of proposed Rule
15Fb2-3, it believed that it would be appropriate to interpret the term “promptly” to mean within 30
days. 73
The Commission received no comments regarding this proposed rule, and is adopting it
substantially as proposed. However, we modified the rule to make two changes. As the application
for registration now includes the certifications on Form SBSE-C, 74 we revised the rule to specify
that if an SBS Entity finds that the information contained in its Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or
dealer de minimis threshold, we think it appropriate to address whether substituted
compliance should be allowed with respect to our registration rules in the context of this
rulemaking, rather than keep open consideration of substituted compliance for the
registration rules, as suggested by the commenter. However, the Commission is not
addressing in this rulemaking the potential availability of substituted compliance for SBS
Dealers with respect other Commission rules to which SBS Dealers would be subject as a
registered SBS Dealer. Instead, we intend to address substituted compliance issues for other
rulemakings in the releases finalizing those rules.
72

See Registration Proposing Release, footnote 54.

73

See Registration Proposing Release, footnote 53.

74

See supra, Section II.A.1.i., and Rule 15Fb2-1(a).

36

Form SBSE-BD, as appropriate, or in any amendment thereto, is or has become inaccurate for any
reason, the SBS Entity shall promptly file an amendment to the appropriate Form to correct such
information. This change clarifies that the certifications on Form SBSE-C are one-time
certifications and Form SBSE-C need not be amended. 75 We also made a technical change to
specify that amendments must be made through the Commission’s EDGAR system, and to remove
the phrase “its designee” because amendments will be filed through the EDGAR system directly
with the Commission.76 The Commission believes this rule is necessary in order for it to have
prompt access to accurate information as part of its ongoing oversight of SBS Entities.
B.

Associated Persons

Paragraph (b)(6) of Exchange Act Section 15F generally prohibits an SBS Dealer or Major
SBS Participant, except as otherwise permitted by rule, regulation or order of the Commission, from
permitting any person associated with the SBS Dealer or Major SBS Participant who is subject to a
“statutory disqualification” to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of
the SBS Entity if the SBS Entity knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, of
the statutory disqualification. 77

75

For more information on the Senior Officer Certification, see supra, Section II.A.1.ii. For
more information on the CCO Certification Regarding Associated Persons, see infra,
Section II.B. For more information on Form SBSE-C, see infra, Section II.G.4. See also
footnote 30; Exchange Act Sections 15F(b)(6), 15F(h), and 15F(k); and rules proposed in
the Business Conduct Standards Proposing Release.

76

See supra, Section II.A.1.iv.

77

On June 15, 2011, the Commission issued an Order that, among other things, granted
temporary relief from compliance with Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6), and Exchange Act
Section 29(b), 15 U.S.C. 78cc(b), concerning enforceability of contracts that would violate,
among other provisions, Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6). See the Effective Date Release.
That Order expires on the effective date of rules adopted by the Commission to register SBS
Entities. The Commission will consider separately extending the expiration date of the
temporary relief.
37

Although Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6) does not define “subject to a statutory
disqualification,” the term has an established meaning under Section 3(a)(39) of the Exchange Act,
which defines circumstances that would subject a person to a statutory disqualification with respect
to membership or participation in, or association with a member of, an SRO. In the Registration
Proposing Release, proposed rule 15Fb6-1 referenced the definition of “statutory disqualification”
set forth in Section 3(a)(39), and the Commission proposed to make this definition applicable to
Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6), notwithstanding the absence of an SRO for SBS Entities. 78
Accordingly, as proposed, a person would have been “subject to a statutory disqualification” for
purposes of proposed Rule 15Fb6-1 if that person would be subject to disqualification from
association with a member of an SRO under the provisions of Section 3(a)(39) of the Exchange
Act. 79
Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 15Fb6-1 would have prohibited an SBS Entity from acting
as an SBS Dealer or Major SBS Participant unless it had certified electronically on Schedule G of
its application Form that no person associated with it who effects or is involved in effecting
security-based swaps on its behalf is subject to statutory disqualification as defined in paragraph
(3)(a)(39) of the Exchange Act. 80 Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 15Fb6-1 would have required an
78

See Registration Proposing Release 76 FR at 65795 (stating that Exchange Act Section
15F(b)(6) applies to “associated persons who are subject to a ‘statutory disqualification’ (as
defined in Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39))”).

79

Likewise, in a similar context, the Commission has proposed to adopt the definition of
“statutory disqualification,” as set forth in Section 3(a)(39), for SBS Entities. See Business
Conduct Standards Proposing Release, at 42404 n.42429-30, and 42454 (proposed Rule
15Fh-2(f)).

80

As proposed, if an associated person later became statutorily disqualified, the SBS Entity
would have been required to ensure that the associated person did not continue to effect or
be involved in effecting security-based swaps on the SBS Entity’s behalf and/or promptly
amend its Schedule G in accordance with proposed Rule 15Fb2–3. See Registration
Proposing Release, at 65795-96.

38

SBS Entity, to support the certification required in paragraph (a), to obtain a questionnaire or
application for employment executed by each of its associated persons who effects or is involved in
effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the SBS Entity that contains certain, specified
information, which would serve as a basis for a background check of the associated person. 81 The
proposal also would have required that the questionnaire or application be reviewed and signed by
the SBS Entity’s CCO. Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 15Fb6-1 would have required that an SBS
Entity maintain all questionnaires and applications for employment obtained pursuant to proposed
paragraph (b) as part of its books and records for at least three years after the associated person has
terminated his or her association with the SBS Entity.
The Commission stated in the Registration Proposing Release that it believed the term
“involved in effecting” security based swaps would encompass associated persons engaged in
functions necessary to facilitate the SBS Entity’s security-based swap business, including, but not
limited to, associated persons involved in drafting and negotiating master agreements and
confirmations, persons recommending security-based swap transactions to counterparties, persons
on a trading desk actively involved in effecting security-based swap transactions, persons pricing
security-based swap positions and managing collateral for the SBS Entity, and persons assuring that
the SBS Entity’s security-based swap business operates in compliance with applicable regulations. 82

81

As proposed, Schedule G would have required that the applicant certify that it had
“performed background checks on all of its associated persons who effect or are involved in
effecting, or who will effect or be involved in effecting, security-based swaps on its behalf,
and determined that no associated person who effects or is involved in effecting, or who will
effect or be involved in effecting, security-based swaps on its behalf is subject to statutory
disqualification, as defined in Section 3(a)(39) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1924.” See
Proposed Schedule G, Registration Proposing Release, at 65841, 65863 and 65878. The
Commission asked questions regarding the Forms, including Schedule G (76 FR at 65802 to
65805), but received no comments on Schedule G.

82

Registration Proposing Release, at 65795, footnote 56.

39

In short, the term would encompass persons engaged in functions necessary to facilitate the SBS
Entity’s security-based swap business.
The Commission received one comment regarding the scope of the proposed certification
and information requirements in proposed paragraphs (a) and (b) of Rule 15Fb6-1. 83 The
commenter stated its belief that, based on the Commission’s definition of the phrase “involved in
effecting,” SBS Entities could have hundreds, if not thousands, of associated natural persons who
effect or are involved in effecting security-based swaps. 84 Moreover, the commenter stated that the
definition of “associated person” could be read to extend not just to natural persons, but also to
entities that are affiliates of SBS Entities. 85 As a result, the commenter stated its view that
prohibiting statutorily disqualified entities from effecting or being involved in effecting securitybased swaps could result in “considerable” business disruptions and other ramifications. 86 To
address these concerns, the commenter suggested that the Commission could (1) limit the scope of
associated persons of SBS Entities solely to natural persons, or (2) narrow the types of activities that
would cause an associated person to be deemed to be “involved in effecting security-based
swaps.” 87
1.

Associated Person Certification
i.

Associated Person Entities

Exchange Act Section 3(a)(70) generally defines the term “persons associated with” an SBS
Entity to include (i) any partner, officer, director, or branch manager of an SBS Entity (or any
83

See SIFMA Letter, at 7-9.

84

Id.

85

Id.

86

Id. The commenter did not provide supporting data regarding the number of associated
persons or the magnitude of any potential business disruptions.

87

Id.

40

person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions); (ii) any person directly or
indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with an SBS Entity; or (iii) any
employee of an SBS Entity. 88 The definition of “person” under Exchange Act Section 3(a)(9) is not
limited to natural persons, but extends to both entities and natural persons. 89 Thus, the statutory
prohibition in Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6), with respect to associated persons of an SBS Entity
subject to a statutory disqualification, extends to both natural persons and entities.
In the Registration Proposing Release, the Commission asked whether it was possible that
an associated person that is an entity that effects or is involved in effecting security-based swaps on
behalf of an SBS Entity would be subject to a statutory disqualification and, if so, if we should
consider excepting those persons from the prohibition in Section 15F(b)(6). 90 We also asked
whether we should except such persons globally or on an individual basis, and whether there should
be any differentiation in relief based upon whether the person was a natural person or an entity. 91
As indicated above, one commenter noted that “business disruptions and other ramifications
stemming from an entire entity being statutorily disqualified from effecting or being involved in
effecting security-based swaps could be considerable.” 92 This commenter suggested a number of
ways the Commission could address this issue, including a suggestion that the Commission limit the

88

See 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(70). The definition generally excludes persons whose functions are
solely clerical or ministerial. See also Registration Proposing Release, footnote 55, and
Cross-Border Activity Proposing Release, footnote 193.

89

15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(9) (“The term ‘person’ means a natural person, company, government, or
political subdivision, agent, or instrumentality of a government.”).

90

See Registration Proposing Release, question 90.

91

See Registration Proposing Release, questions 91 and 93.

92

See SIFMA Letter, at 8.

41

scope of associated persons of SBS Entities solely to natural persons. We note that the CFTC rules
provide that associated persons of swap dealers and major swap participants are natural persons. 93
After taking into consideration the comment and the implementation of the equivalent CEA
provision, the Commission is adopting Rule 15Fb6-1, which provides that unless otherwise ordered
by the Commission, when it files an application to register with the Commission as an SBS Dealer
or Major SBS Participant, an SBS entity may permit a person associated with such SBS Entity that
is not a natural person and that is subject to a statutory disqualification, to effect or be involved in
effecting security-based swaps on its behalf, provided that the statutory disqualification(s),
described in Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Securities Exchange Act, occurred prior to the
compliance date of this rule, and provided that it identifies each such associated person on Schedule
C of Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as appropriate. As discussed below, this rule
is designed to facilitate an orderly registration process by minimizing potential market disruptions
that could occur when firms engaged in the security-based swap business trigger the requirements to
register with the Commission.
93

The CFTC amended CEA Regulation 1.3(aa), which generally defines the term “associated
person” for purposes of entities registered with it, to cover swap dealers and major swap
participants. Consequently, with respect to swap dealers and security-based swap dealers,
the definition reads, “(aa) Associated Person. This term means any natural person who is
associated in any of the following capacities with: […] (6) A swap dealer or major swap
participant as a partner, officer, employee, agent (or any natural person occupying a similar
status or performing similar functions), in any capacity that involves: (i) The solicitation or
acceptance of swaps (other than in a clerical or ministerial capacity); or (ii) The supervision
of any person or persons so engaged.
Section 4s(b)(6) of the CEA [7 U.S.C. 6s(b)(6)], which is equivalent to Section 15F(b)(6) of
the Exchange Act, provides that: “Except to the extent otherwise specifically provided by
rule, regulation, or order, it shall be unlawful for a swap dealer or a major swap participant
to permit any person associated with a swap dealer or a major swap participant who is
subject to a statutory disqualification to effect or be involved in effecting swaps on behalf of
the swap dealer or major swap participant, if the swap dealer or major swap participant
knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, of the statutory
disqualification.”

42

As highlighted above, the scope of the prohibition in Section 15F(b)(6) of the Exchange Act
covers a wide range of actions beyond Commission orders and conduct related to the securities
markets, including actions by SROs, state regulators, criminal authorities and foreign jurisdictions
occurring over a length of time. In addition, the term associated person is expansive and extends to,
among other things, partners of an SBS Entity and persons directly or indirectly controlling,
controlled by, or under common control with an SBS Entity, all of which could include a nonnatural person. 94 Moreover, the conduct that led to the statutory disqualification of an associated
person that is not a natural person may pertain to management practices that occurred a long time
ago and may have been remediated or acts engaged in by personnel that are no longer employed by
the associated person. Further, as discussed below in Section II.B.1.ii., we generally view the term
“involved in effecting” to extend to key aspects of the overall process of effecting security-based
swap transactions, including sales, booking, and cash and collateral management activities.
If the prohibition in Section 15F(b)(6) of the Exchange Act were to be applied without this
relief, the Commission is concerned about the potential for market disruptions. The Commission’s
concern is particularly focused on the application of the prohibition under Section 15F(b)(6) with
respect to non-natural associated persons, and during the transition period when firms engaged in
the security-based swap business, with existing processes and relationships to facilitate that
business, trigger the requirement to register with the Commission. Specifically, SBS Entities are
likely to rely on non-natural associated persons to provide security-based swap related services to
the SBS Entity, such as advisory, booking, and cash or collateral management services. SBS
Entities engaged in the security-based swap market may need to either cease operations, even
temporarily, due to not being able to utilize these services of their associated entities, or move these
94

See supra, footnote 89.

43

services to another entity that may not be as well positioned to handle them, which could have an
impact on the security-based swap market. 95
With respect to natural persons, we believe that replacing, even temporarily, a natural person
performing a particular security-based swap function would not create the same practical issues as
with moving the services provided by a non-natural person associated person to another entity. For
example, we believe that moving the cash and collateral management services from one entity to
another would have a much more significant impact on the ability of the SBS Entity to operate than
assigning a different natural person to negotiate and execute security-based swap transactions.
Further, natural person associated persons are the persons responsible for actually performing or
overseeing the functions necessary to effect security-based swap activities. As such, we do not
believe this transitional relief in Rule 15Fb6-1 should be extended to cover associated persons that
are natural persons. 96
We therefore are adopting a rule that is designed to facilitate an orderly registration process
by minimizing the potential for market disruption in a targeted manner. Specifically, Rule 15Fb6-1
is applicable only to SBS Entity associated persons that are not natural persons, and the relief
provided by the rule will only be available to firms at the time that they submit applications to
register as SBS Entities. If an SBS Entity is associated with an entity that effects or is involved in
95

See SIFMA Letter at 8.

96

An SBS Entity could seek relief to allow an associated person subject to statutory
disqualification to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf.
Paragraph (b)(6) of Exchange Act Section 15F gives the Commission authority to grant
exceptions to the general prohibition “by rule, regulation, or order.” In addition, the
Commission has proposed in a separate rulemaking today to provide a procedure by which
SBS Entities could seek such relief. Applications by Security-Based Swap Dealers or Major
Security-Based Swap Participants for Statutorily Disqualified Associated Persons to Effect
or be Involved in Effecting Security-Based Swaps, Exchange Act Release No. 75612 (Aug.
5, 2015)(the “Rule 194 Proposing Release”). See also infra Section III.B., which discusses
the relationship between the compliance date and proposed Rule 194.

44

effecting security-based swaps on its behalf that becomes subject to a statutory disqualification after
the compliance date of these rules but prior to the SBS Entity registering with the Commission, if an
SBS Entity that is registered wants to associate with an entity that is subject to statutory
disqualification that will effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf, or if
an entity with which an SBS Entity is associated and that effects or is involved in effecting securitybased swaps on its behalf becomes subject to statutory disqualification after the SBS Entity has
registered, the SBS Entity would need to seek relief from the Commission. 97
We included the phrase “unless otherwise ordered by the Commission” to make clear that
the rule does not preclude the Commission from exercising its authority under Exchange Act
Sections 15F(l) and 21 to take certain actions against associated persons of SBS Entities, including
barring them from association with an SBS Entity, if it finds the associated person to have engaged
in certain enumerated activities. Likewise, we have also included the phrase “provided that the
statutory disqualification(s), described in Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, occurred prior to the compliance date of this rule” to make clear that this
rule does not apply with respect to statutory disqualifications of non-natural associated persons of
the SBS Entity that occur in the future (i.e., after the compliance date of the registration rules).
Finally, the SBS Entity is required to identify, on Schedule C of Form SBSE, Form SBSEA, or Form SBSE-BD, as appropriate, those non-natural persons associated with it, as of the date it
submits an application for registration, that are subject to statutory disqualification and that it
permits to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf under the exclusion
provided for in Rule 15Fb6-1. This condition is designed to provide the Commission with

97

Id.

45

information to assist in its oversight of SBS Entities, 98 and to provide market participants with
information regarding the extent to which an SBS Entity relies on this provision.
The Commission believes that the approach in Rule 15Fb6-1 appropriately considers the
potentially competing objectives of facilitating an orderly registration process by minimizing the
potential for market and counterparty disruption while maintaining strong investor protections. In
particular, while the rule provides targeted relief with respect to non-natural person entities when an
SBS Entity initially registers with the Commission, it is not applicable to associated persons who
are natural persons and would not apply to entities an SBS Entity may want to associate with after it
is registered nor to statutorily disqualifying events that occur after the compliance date of the rule.
ii.

Involved in Effecting Transactions

The Commission has previously interpreted the term “effecting transactions” in the context
of securities transactions to include a number of activities, ranging from identifying potential
purchasers to settlement and confirmation of a transaction. 99 The statutory provision on statutory

98

As discussed in more detail in Section II.G. below, the Commission will use the information
provided in the application for registration, including Schedule C, as part of its ongoing
oversight of an SBS Entity (for example by assisting representatives of the Commission in
the preparation for examination of an SBS Entity, or more broadly to monitor risks specific
to a firm or to the market more generally or to assess trends across firms).

99

See, e.g., Temporary Rule 11a2-2(T), which states, “a member [of a national securities
exchange] ‘effects’ a securities transaction when it performs any function in connection with
the processing of that transaction, including, but not limited to, (1) transmission of a order
for execution, (2) execution of the order, (3) clearance and settlement of the transaction, and
(4) arranging for the performance of any such function.” 17 CFR 240.11a2-2(T) (2014), and
Definition of Terms in and Specific Exemptions for Banks, Savings Associations, and
Savings Banks Under Sections 3(a)(4) and 3(a)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
Securities Exchange Act Release No. 44291 (May 11, 2001), 66 FR 27760, 27772-73 (May
18, 2001) (where the Commission stated that “[e]ffecting transactions in securities includes
more than just executing trades or forwarding securities orders to a broker-dealer for
execution. Generally, effecting securities transactions can include participating in the
transactions through the following activities: (1) identifying potential purchasers of
securities; (2) screening potential participants in a transaction for creditworthiness; (3)
46

disqualification in Section 15F(b)(6) of the Exchange Act includes the phrase “involved in
effecting,” separately and in addition to “effecting.” We understand the inclusion of two separate
terms in Section 5F(b)(6) to mean that the terms have different meanings, and that the term
“involved in effecting” includes a broader range of activities than simply “effecting” security-based
swap transactions. Further, while the commenter suggested that we narrow the scope of the term
“involved in effecting,” it did not suggest that we treat “effect” and “involved in effecting” as
having the same meaning. 100
Generally, we view the types of activities covered by the term “involved in effecting” in
Section 15F(b)(6) to relate directly to key aspects of the overall process of effecting security-based
swap transactions, including sales, booking and cash and collateral management activities. We
believe it would be inappropriate to focus solely on the persons that effect transactions and not also
on those that are involved more broadly in these key aspects of the process necessary to facilitate
transactions, because persons involved in these key aspects of the process have the ability, through
their conduct (intentional or unintentional), to increase risks to investors, counterparties and the
markets. However, we are further clarifying the meaning of the term “involved in effecting,” as
discussed below.
In the Registration Proposing Release we explained our view generally that “involved in
effecting” included “persons on a trading desk actively involved in effecting security-based swap
transactions.” Upon further consideration, we did not mean to imply (by use of the term “actively”)
that there is some minimum amount of trading a person working on a trading desk must be involved
soliciting securities transactions; (4) routing or matching orders, or facilitating the execution
of a securities transaction; (5) handling customer funds and securities; and (6) preparing and
sending transaction confirmations (other than on behalf of a broker-dealer that executes the
trades).” (footnotes omitted)).
100

See SIFMA Letter, at 8.

47

with to be considered “involved in effecting” security-based swap transactions. In general, our
focus is on the type of activity, not the amount of activity. In addition, we believe it is preferable to
use the term “executing” because it is more precise and eliminates the perceived definitional
circularity. We believe it is appropriate to clarify our guidance in this manner because the totality
of the guidance provided covers other key aspects of the overall process of effecting security-based
swap transactions.
We also are clarifying that by including “persons assuring that the SBS Entity’s securitybased swap business operates in compliance with applicable regulations,” we intended to include
only “persons directly supervising” the persons engaged in the other, specified activities. We
believe that it is appropriate to view the scope more narrowly rather than to suggest that it includes
all persons at an SBS Entity in any way involved in assuring compliance with applicable rules.
Consequently, we believe the term “involved in effecting security-based swaps” generally means
engaged in functions necessary to facilitate the SBS Dealer’s or Major SBS Participant’s securitybased swap business, including, but not limited to the following activities: (1) drafting and
negotiating master agreements and confirmations; (2) recommending security-based swap
transactions to counterparties; (3) being involved in executing security-based swap transactions on a
trading desk; (4) pricing security-based swap positions; (5) managing collateral for the SBS Entity;
and (6) directly supervising persons engaged in the activities described in items (1) through (5)
above.
iii.

Licensing

Another commenter suggested that the Commission should establish licensing
requirements. 101 After considering the comment, the Commission is not at this time adopting
101

See the 2011 Better Markets Letter, at 7-8.
48

licensing requirements for associated persons of SBS Entities. While SROs generally establish
licensing and qualification requirements for those persons associated with their member brokerdealers, 102 there is no similar SRO regulatory system for security based swap dealers. 103 In
addition, the Commission does not have licensing or qualification requirements for other market
intermediaries registered with it that are not subject to regulation by an SRO. Furthermore, as
discussed above, the CCO certification should provide assurance that associated persons of SBS
Entities that effect or are involved in effecting security-based swap transactions are not statutorily
disqualified by attesting that the firm has itself performed this review. We believe that a CCO
would have incentive to provide an accurate certification due to potential regulatory consequences.
Consequently, we do not believe a licensing scheme is necessary at this time, and we are not
adopting a licensing scheme.
2.

Questionnaire or Application for Employment and Background Checks

As noted, to support the certification required by paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 15Fb6-1,
proposed Rule 15Fb6-1(b) would have required that an SBS Entity obtain a questionnaire or
application for employment executed by each of its associated persons who effects or is involved in
effecting security based swaps on the SBS Entity’s behalf which would serve as a basis for a
background check of the associated person and be reviewed and signed by the SBS Entity’s CCO
(or his or her designee). In addition, proposed Schedule G to Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD
would have required the SBS Entity’s CCO to certify that the applicant had performed background

102

See e.g., FINRA’s NASD Rule 1031 and FINRA Rule 1230(b)(6) (applicable to associated
persons of broker-dealers), and MSRB Rules G-2 and G-3 (applicable to associated persons
of municipal securities brokers and municipal securities dealers). See also, 15 U.S.C.
78f(c)(3)(A) and (B), 15 U.S.C. 78o-3(g)(3)(A) and (B), and 15 U.S.C. 78o-4(b)(2)(A)(iii)
authorizing such rules.

103

See supra, discussion in Section II.A.1.ii.

49

checks on all of its associated persons who effect or are involved in effecting, or who will effect or
be involved in effecting, security-based swaps on its behalf and determined that no associated
person who effects or is involved in effecting, or who will effect or be involved in effecting,
security-based swaps on its behalf is subject to statutory disqualification, as defined in Section
3(a)(39) of the Exchange Act.
One commenter stated that entities that screen employees pursuant to other regulatory
requirements may decide to register as SBS Entities, and that the Commission should confirm that
SBS Entities that are also registered as broker-dealers or that have affiliated broker-dealers may rely
on the questionnaires and background checks they conduct of associated persons under Commission
and FINRA rules to satisfy their Rule 15Fb6-1 background check obligation, and allow SBS
Entities that are not broker-dealers but are overseen by a prudential regulator to rely on the
questionnaires and background checks they conduct pursuant to the requirements of their prudential
regulator to satisfy those obligations. 104
The rules as adopted do not specify what steps an SBS Entity should take to perform a
background check. 105 The required employment questionnaire or application includes a significant
amount of information that can be helpful to determine whether an associated person may be subject
to a statutory disqualification. 106 In addition, we believe financial institutions already take steps to
verify the background of their employees, such as by calling past employers and checking
references. In some cases calling references and past employers may be sufficient, while in other
circumstances a firm may decide to take additional steps. We believe it is important for firms to
104

See SIFMA Letter, at 9.

105

See infra, Section II.B.3.

106

See infra, footnote 120 and accompanying text. See also, 17 CFR 240-17a-3(a)(12)(i) and
proposed Rule 18a-5(b)(8)(i).

50

have flexibility to perform background checks, as long as those checks provide them with sufficient
comfort to certify that none of the SBS Entity’s employees who effect or are involved in effecting
security-based swaps on the SBS Entity’s behalf are subject to statutory disqualification, unless
otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation or order of the Commission. 107
As noted, the rules as adopted do not specify what steps an SBS Entity should take to
perform a background check. As such, with respect to an SBS Entity whose associated persons are
also associated with an affiliated broker-dealer, CFTC-registered entity, or bank, there may be
circumstances where the SBS Entity and its CCO are able to rely on current background checks of
dual employees performed by an affiliated, regulated entity, as long as those checks provide them
with sufficient comfort to certify that none of the SBS Entity’s employees who effect or are
involved in effecting security-based swaps on the SBS Entity’s behalf are subject to statutory
disqualification, unless otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation or order of the
Commission.108
One commenter stated that the statutory disqualification requirements would apply to a
foreign registered SBS Entity as a whole (i.e., an entity-level, as opposed to transaction-level,
requirement), without regard to the identity of a given counterparty, resulting in situations where
non-U.S. employees of non-U.S. SBS Entities who do not interact with U.S. customers would be

107

See, Rule 194 Proposing Release.

108

As we have amended paragraph (b) of Rule 15Fb6-2 to require that the CCO, or his or her
designee, sign the questionnaire or application that the SBS Entity is required to obtain
pursuant to the relevant recordkeeping rule applicable to such SBS Entity, we believe it
would be appropriate for the Commission to address the issue of whether an SBS Entity can
fulfill its obligation to obtain questionnaires or applications for employment by relying on
other documents in the release that will address the recordkeeping requirements for SBS
Entities. See infra, footnotes 120 and 121 and accompanying text for a discussion of Rule
15Fb6-2(b). See also, Rule 194 Proposing Release.

51

required to submit to U.S. background checks for statutory disqualification purposes. 109 This
commenter indicated that this approach diverges from that adopted by the CFTC, which it states
does not apply its statutory disqualification requirements to associated persons of its registrants who
engage in activity outside the U.S. and limit such activity to customers located outside the U.S. 110
This commenter recommended that the Commission re-categorize licensing and statutory
disqualification requirements as transaction-level requirements because limiting background checks
to personnel interacting with U.S. persons would help eliminate potential conflicts with local
privacy laws, which the commenter states in some cases may prohibit background checks for
employees based abroad. 111
As noted in Section II.A.1.vi., in the Cross Border Proposing Release the Commission
proposed Rule 3a71-5 to facilitate certain substituted compliance determinations by the
Commission for foreign SBS Dealers. 112 Paragraph (a)(3) of that proposed rule specified that the
Commission would not make a substituted compliance determination with respect to registration
requirements described in Sections 15F(a) – (d) of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations
thereunder. As discussed above, the Commission continues to believe that substituted compliance
should not be available for SBS Entity Registration. 113 The Commission holds this view with
respect to all aspects of SBS Entity registration, including the requirements relating to statutory
disqualification.

109

See IIB letter, at 20.

110

Id.

111

Id.

112

See Cross-Border Proposing Release, at 31207-8. See also Cross-Border Proposing Release,
at 31015-31016.

113

See supra, Section II.A.1.vi.
52

Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6) generally prohibits an SBS Entity, except as otherwise
permitted by rule, regulation or order of the Commission, from permitting any person associated
with the SBS Entity who is subject to a “statutory disqualification” to effect or be involved in
effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the SBS Entity if the SBS Entity knew, or in the
exercise of reasonable care should have known, of the statutory disqualification. Rule 15Fb6-2(a)
as adopted states that no registered SBS Entity shall act as an SBS Entity unless it has certified that
no person associated with such SBS Entity who is effecting or involved in effecting security-based
swaps on behalf of the SBS Entity is subject to statutory disqualification, unless otherwise
specifically provided by rule, regulation or order of the Commission. Rule 15Fb6-2(b) as adopted
further states that (1) to support the certification required by paragraph (a), the SBS Entity’s CCO,
or his or her designee, shall review and sign the questionnaire or application for employment, which
the SBS Entity is required to obtain pursuant to the relevant recordkeeping rule applicable to such
SBS Entity, executed by each associated person who is a natural person and who effects or is
involved in effecting security based swaps on the SBS Entity’s behalf; and (2) the questionnaire or
application shall serve as a basis for a background check of the associated person to verify that the
person is not subject to statutory disqualification. 114
The requirements in paragraph (b) of Rule 15Fb6-2 are designed to support the CCO
Certification Regarding Associated Persons required by paragraph (a) of the rule, and the CCO
Certification Regarding Associated Persons is designed to provide the Commission with
representations regarding the applicant’s compliance with the statutory disqualification provision in
Section 15F(b)(6) of the Exchange Act. We believe that these requirements are important aspects
of our registration regime for SBS Entities, as they will in part help ensure that SBS Entities are
114

See also Form SBSE-C and Rule 15Fb6-2(b).

53

performing the necessary diligence to support the requirements of Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6).
The requirements in Rule 15Fb6-2(b) regarding questionnaires or applications and background
checks are important elements of each SBS Entity’s determination with respect to whether its
associated persons that effect or are involved in effecting security-based swap transactions are
subject to statutory disqualifications, and can serve as an effective tool for the Commission to use to
assess the SBS Entity’s diligence with respect to, and compliance with, the requirements of
paragraph (a) of the rule. The Commission has considered the function that these statutory
disqualification requirements play in the effective oversight and regulation of SBS Entities and has
concluded that entity-level classification - and application to all associated persons - will provide
for more effective oversight and regulation. Thus, while the Commission has taken into
consideration the commenter’s concerns regarding the potential impact of certain foreign privacy
laws, we are not convinced at this time of a need or basis to provide an exclusion for SBS Entities
from the statutory disqualification requirements with respect to certain of its associated persons that
are natural persons who effect or are involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf.
Accordingly, under our final rules, we continue to treat these requirements as entity-level
requirements applicable to all associated persons of the registered foreign SBS Entity that effect or
are involved in effecting security-based swap transactions.
3.

Final Rule for Associated Person Certification

Therefore, for the reasons discussed above, we are adopting the language proposed as Rule
15Fb6-1 as Rule 15Fb6-2 with some modifications, as described below. Paragraph (a) of Rule
15Fb6-2, as adopted, requires that an SBS Entity certify, on Form SBSE-C, that it neither knows,
nor in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, that any person associated with it who
effects or is involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf is subject to statutory
disqualification, as described in Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Exchange Act, unless
54

otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation or order of the Commission. 115 We incorporated
the phrase “neither knows, nor in the exercise of reasonable care should have known” to assure that
the language in the certification more closely tracks the requirements of Exchange Act Section
15F(b)(6). We added the phrase “unless otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation or order
of the Commission” to this paragraph to acknowledge that if the Commission provides relief to
allow an SBS Entity to permit a person associated with it who is subject to a statutory
disqualification to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf, 116 the SBS
Entity may do so. 117 In addition, we amended the reference to Exchange Act Section 3(a)(39) in the
rule text to replace the phrase “as defined in Section 3(a)(39) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934” with the phrase “as described in Sections 3(a)(39)(A) – (F) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934.” This updated cross-reference incorporates the underlying issues that give rise to statutory
disqualification without reference to SRO membership. 118 Finally, as described more fully in
Sections II.G.1 and II.G.4 below, we have moved the CCO Certification Regarding Associated
Persons from Schedule G into Form SBSE-C. This change clarifies that the CCO Certification
Regarding Associated Persons is required only at the time of registration to provide the Commission
115

The certification must be accurate when it is signed. Final Rule 15Fb1-1(b), described
below in Section II.F., would require each SBS Entity to maintain a manually signed copy of
this certification as part of its books and records until at least three years after the
certification has been replaced or is no longer effective.

116

E.g., See, Rule 15Fb6-1 and the Rule 194 Proposing Release.

117

See supra, footnote 96. This language is designed to track Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6),
which states, in part, “[e]xcept to the extent otherwise specifically provided by rule,
regulation or order of the Commission, it shall be unlawful…”

118

As proposed, the associated person certification in Schedule G included the phrase “will
effect or be involved in effecting,” while the associated person certification requirement in
proposed Rule 15Fb6-1(a) did not. Because the certification is not designed to be forwardlooking, and to ensure that Rule 15Fb6-2 and Form SBSE-C, as adopted, have the same
language for the same certification, we removed the phrase “will effect or be involved in
effecting” from the certification contained in Form SBSE-C as adopted.

55

with information before making a determination as to whether to grant registration or institute
proceedings to deny registration. 119
Paragraph (b) of Rule 15Fb6-2 as adopted states that, to support the certification required by
paragraph (a), an SBS Entity’s CCO, or his or her designee, shall review and sign each
questionnaire or application for employment, which the SBS Entity is required to obtain pursuant to
the relevant recordkeeping rule applicable to such SBS Entity, executed by each associated person
who is a natural person and who effects or is involved in effecting security based swaps on the SBS
Entity’s behalf, and that the questionnaire or application shall serve as a basis for a background
check of the associated person to verify that the person is not subject to statutory disqualification.
We have amended paragraph (b) of Rule 15Fb6-2 in recognition of the fact that the Commission
separately proposed Rule 18a-5(b)(8)(i), as part of its proposed recordkeeping and reporting rules
that would be applicable to stand-alone SBS Dealers, stand-alone Major SBS Participants, bank
SBS Dealers, and bank Major SBS Participants, which would require SBS Entities to obtain an
employment questionnaire or application from their associated persons that would contain the same
information as in proposed Rule 15Fb6-2(b). 120 We do not believe that it would be efficient or
necessary to repeat the same requirement for obtaining such questionnaires or applications in two
separate Commission rules. 121 We believe that it is more appropriate to include the underlying

119

15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)(6).

120

See Books and Records Proposing Release, at 25205.

121

Paragraph (c) of proposed Rule 15Fb6-1 also would have established a requirement to
maintain these employment questionnaires and applications for at least three years after the
associated person has terminated his or her association with the SBS Entity. This is
substantially the same as the requirement in proposed Rule 18a-6(b) relating to the records
created in accordance with Rule 18a-5(b)(8)(i). Rule 15Fb6-2 as adopted, removes this
proposed requirement because we intend for the recordkeeping rule to comprehensively
address recordkeeping issues.

56

requirement to obtain the questionnaires or applications in the Commission rule that would broadly
cover the books and records requirements for an SBS Entity, and to provide in Rule 15Fb6-2 the
requirement that the CCO sign and review the questionnaire or application that the SBS Entity is
required to obtain pursuant to the relevant recordkeeping rule applicable to such SBS Entity, and
use it as a basis for a background check, to support the certification required by Rule 15Fb6-2(a).
In addition, we have revised final Rule 15Fb6-2(b) to add the phrase “who is a natural
person” in recognition of the fact that only natural persons would be required to complete this type
of questionnaire or application. Consequently, the CCO (or the CCO’s designee) only must review
and sign questionnaires or applications for associated persons that are natural persons. Rule 15Fb62(b) as adopted also states that the questionnaire or application shall serve as a basis for a
background check of the associated person to verify that the person is not subject to statutory
disqualification. This provision is designed to help ensure that due regard is paid to this
requirement to collect information on employees and that the SBS Entity’s CCO or designee
reviews the application and takes any other necessary steps to assure that none of the SBS Entity’s
employees who effect or are involved in effecting security-based swaps on the SBS Entity’s behalf
is subject to statutory disqualification, unless otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation or
order of the Commission. As paragraph (b) of Rule 15Fb6-2 is designed to support the certification
required by paragraph (a) at the time of registration, it does not impose ongoing obligations.
However, the Commission emphasizes that the obligation to comply with Section 15F(b)(6) of the
Exchange Act is ongoing.
C.

Termination of Registration
1.

Duration of Registration: Rule 15Fb3-1

Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(3) provides that “each registration under this section shall
expire at such time as the Commission may prescribe by rule or regulation.” This provision is
57

similar to CEA Section 6f(a)(1), which provides that “each registration shall expire on December 31
of the year for which issued or at such other time, not less than one year from the date of issuance,
as the Commission may by rule, regulation, or order prescribe . . . .” CEA Rule 3.10(b) provides,
among other things, that persons registered with the CFTC pursuant to CEA Rule 3.10 “will
continue to be so registered until the effective date of any revocation or withdrawal of such
registration.”
As proposed, paragraph (a) of Rule 15Fb3-1 would have established a similar continuous
registration as is set forth in CEA Rule 3.10(b), providing that registered SBS Entities “continue to
be so registered until the effective date of any cancellation, revocation or withdrawal of such
registration or any other event the Commission determines should trigger expiration.” Paragraph
(b) of the proposed rule would have established the timeframes within which conditional
registration would expire if ongoing registration was not obtained. 122 Paragraph (c) of the proposed
rule would have allowed the Commission to extend conditional registration for good cause. The
Commission received no comments on this proposed rule.
We are adopting this proposed rule with several modifications. First, we modified the
language of paragraph (a) to eliminate the phrase “or any other event the Commission determines
should trigger expiration” because if we determine an SBS Entity’s registration should terminate we

122

More specifically, proposed paragraph (b)(1) would have provided that during the
transitional period conditional registration granted by the Commission would expire on the
last compliance date for SBS Entities that filed a completed application before the last
compliance date, unless the SBS Entity filed with the Commission a certification, in which
case conditional registration extended an additional thirty days. Proposed paragraph (b)(2)
would have provided that after the last compliance date, conditional registration granted by
the Commission to major security-based swap participants would expire four months after
the major security-based swap participant filed its completed application, unless the major
security-based swap participant filed a certification; in which case the conditional
registration extended an additional thirty days.

58

would follow the revocation process set forth in Rule 15Fb3-3. Consequently, this phrase is
extraneous and could cause confusion if not removed. In addition, we have modified the language
of paragraph (b) to provide that a person conditionally registered as an SBS Entity will continue to
be so registered until the date the registrant withdraws from registration or the Commission grants
or denies the person’s ongoing registration, as described in Rule 15Fb2-1(e). We also eliminated
paragraph (c), because applicants will be conditionally registered upon filing a complete
application, and conditional registration will not expire until the Commission either grants or denies
ongoing registration. Thus, there is no instance in which an applicant’s conditional registration
would need to be extended.
2. Withdrawal: Rule 15Fb3-2
As proposed, Rule 15Fb3-2 was designed to provide a process by which an SBS Entity may
withdraw from registration with the Commission. The rule was based on Exchange Act Rule 15b61, which has historically worked well to facilitate broker-dealer withdrawals. 123
Proposed Rule 15Fb3-2(a) would have required an SBS Entity to electronically file a notice
of withdrawal from registration on Form SBSE-W (described in more detail below in Section
II.G.4) in accordance with the instructions to the Form. It also would have required that an SBS
Entity amend its Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as appropriate, in accordance
with proposed Rule 15Fb2-3 to update any inaccurate information prior to filing its notice of
withdrawal from registration. The Commission received no comments on this aspect of the
proposed rule. We are adopting paragraph (a) of Rule 15Fb3-2 substantially as proposed, but with a
modification to specify that Form SBSE-W must be filed with the Commission through the
Commission’s EDGAR system.
123

Registration Proposing Release, at footnote 62.

59

Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 15Fb3-2 would have provided that a notice of withdrawal
from registration filed by an SBS Entity generally becomes effective on the 60th day after the SBS
Entity files Form SBSE-W. However, as discussed in the Registration Proposing Release, the
Commission recognizes that there may be circumstances in which it would be advisable to provide
flexibility in scheduling the termination of business operations to registered entities seeking to
withdraw from registration. 124 Further, we may determine that it would be appropriate for a
registered entity that is under investigation by the Commission to maintain its registered status in
order to allow the Commission to conclude a pending investigation without prematurely instituting
a proceeding to impose conditions on the registered entity’s withdrawal. In such instances, we
believe it better serves the interests of all parties to provide registered entities and the Commission
with the flexibility to extend the effective date of withdrawal, either by consent or Commission
order. Thus, paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 15Fb3-2 identified specific situations in which notices
of withdrawal from registration would not become effective on the 60th day after the SBS Entity
filed Form SBSE-W. Specifically, proposed paragraph (b) stated that rather than becoming
effective on the 60th day, the notices of withdrawal would instead become effective “within such
longer period of time as to which such SBS Dealer or Major SBS Participant consents or which the
Commission by order may determine as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the
protection of investors, or within such shorter period of time as the Commission may determine.”
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 15Fb3-2 also provided that if the Commission institutes
proceedings prior to the effective date of Form SBSE-W to censure, place limitations on the
activities, functions or operations of, or suspend or revoke the registration of the SBS Entity, or to
impose terms or conditions upon the SBS Entity’s withdrawal, the notice of withdrawal shall not
124

See Registration Proposing Release, at 65798.

60

become effective except at such time and upon such terms and conditions as the Commission deems
necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.
The Commission received no comments on paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 15Fb3-2, and is
adopting it as proposed.
3. Cancellation and Revocation: Rule 15Fb3-3
Proposed Rule 15Fb3-3 was designed to provide the Commission with the ability to either
cancel or revoke a registered SBS Entity’s registration. Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 15Fb3-3
would have provided that the Commission shall cancel an SBS Entity’s registration if the
Commission finds that it is no longer in existence or has ceased to do business as an SBS Entity. As
highlighted in the Registration Proposing Release, this cancellation process is designed to help the
Commission allocate its examination and other resources to entities that are actively engaged in
business regulated by the Commission.125
Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 15Fb3-3 would have provided that the Commission, by
order, shall censure, place limitations on the activities, functions, or operations of, or revoke (on a
permanent or temporary basis) the registration of any SBS Entity that has registered with the
Commission if it makes a finding as specified in Section 15F(l)(2) of the Exchange Act. 126 This
paragraph of the Rule would implement the authority in Section 15F(l)(2) of the Exchange Act.
The Commission received no comments on this proposed rule, and is adopting it as
proposed.

125

See Registration Proposing Release, at 65799.

126

See Exchange Act Section 15F(l)(2), stat. at 15 U.S.C. 78o-10(l) (providing authority to the
Commission to censure, place limitations on the activities, functions, or operations of, or
revoke the registration of any SBS Entity).

61

D.

Special Requirements for Nonresident SBS Entities

As proposed, Rule 15Fb2-4 would have required, among other things, nonresident SBS
Entities that register with the Commission to: (1) appoint an agent for service of process in the
United States (other than the Commission or a Commission member, official or employee) upon
whom may be served any process, pleadings, or other papers in any action brought against the
nonresident SBS Entity; (2) furnish the Commission with the identity and address of its agent for
service of process; (3) certify that the firm can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission with
prompt access to its books and records and can, as a matter of law, submit to onsite inspection and
examination by the Commission; and (4) provide the Commission with an opinion of counsel
concurring that the firm can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission with prompt access to its
books and records and can, as a matter of law, submit to onsite inspection and examination by the
Commission. Proposed Rule 15Fb2-4 also would have required registered nonresident SBS Entities
to re-certify within 90 days after any changes in the legal or regulatory framework that would
impact the nonresident SBS Entity’s ability to provide, or the manner in which it provides, the
Commission prompt access to its books and records or impacts the Commission’s ability to inspect
and examine the registered nonresident SBS Entity.
1.

Definition of Nonresident SBS Entities

Paragraph (a) of proposed Rule 15Fb2-4 would have defined the terms “nonresident
security-based swap dealer” and “nonresident major security-based swap participant” for purposes
of Rule 15Fb2-4. Under this proposed definition, the term “nonresident” SBS Entity would have
been defined to mean: in the case of an individual, one who resides, or has his or her principal place
of business, “in any place not in the United States;” in the case of a corporation, one incorporated in
or having its principal place of business “in any place not in the United States;” and in the case of a
partnership or other unincorporated organization or association, one having its principal place of
62

business “outside the United States.” The Commission received no comments on paragraph (a) of
Rule 15Fb2-4, and is adopting these definitions as proposed with one technical change to make the
language in the three sub-paragraphs (applicable to individuals, corporations, and partnerships)
consistent. 127
2. United States Agent for Service of Process
Paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of proposed Rule 15Fb2-4 would have required that each
nonresident SBS Entity registered or registering with the Commission obtain a written irrevocable
consent and power of attorney appointing an agent for service of process in the United States (other
than the Commission or a Commission member, official or employee) upon whom may be served
any process, pleadings, or other papers in any action brought against the nonresident SBS Entity,
and furnish the Commission with the identity and address of its agent for services of process on
Schedule F to Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as applicable. 128 Paragraph (b)(1)
also would have required that the consent and power of attorney be signed by both the nonresident
SBS Entity and the agent(s) for service of process. Paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of proposed Rule
15Fb2-4 would have required that registered nonresident SBS Entities promptly appoint a successor
agent if it discharges its identified agent for service of process or if its agent for service of process is
unwilling or unable to accept service on its behalf, and promptly inform the Commission, through
an amendment of the Schedule F of Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as appropriate,
of any change to either its agent for service of process or the name or address of its existing agent
for service of process. These requirements are important to facilitate the ability of the Commission

127

As proposed, paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) included the phrase “not in the United States,”
while paragraph (a)(3) used the phrase “outside the United States.” We modified paragraph
(a)(3) to track the phrase included in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2), “not in the United States.”

128

Paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of proposed Rule 15Fb2-4, respectively.

63

and others (for example, the U.S. Department of Justice and any other agency with the power to
enforce the Exchange Act) to serve process on a nonresident SBS Entity to enforce the Exchange
Act. Finally, paragraph (b)(5) of proposed Rule 15Fb2-4 would have required that the registered
nonresident SBS Entity maintain, as part of its books and records, the agreement identified in
paragraph (b)(1) for at least three years after the agreement is terminated.
The Commission received no comments on paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of Rule 15Fb24, and is adopting them as proposed. We are adopting paragraphs (b)(4) and (b)(5) with one
modification to each to address the documentation of successor agents for service of process. First,
we have modified paragraph (b)(4) to clarify that if a nonresident SBS Entity appoints a successor
agent for service of process, it must follow the same process described in paragraph (b)(1). We also
modified paragraph (b)(5) to require that SBS Entities preserve agreements obtained not only under
paragraphs (b)(1), but also under paragraph (b)(4). While we originally intended that SBS Entities
would use the same process when replacing an agent for service of process as they did when
initially appointed an agent for service of process, we realize that the proposed rule text was unclear
on this point.
3. Access to Books and Records, and Onsite Inspections and Examinations,
of Nonresident SBS Entities
The Commission proposed to require that each nonresident SBS Entity registering with the
Commission certify on Schedule F of Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as
appropriate, that it can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission with prompt access to its books
and records and can, as a matter of law, submit to onsite inspection and examination by the

64

Commission. 129 The proposal also would have required that this certification be supported by an
opinion of counsel obtained by the nonresident SBS Entity. 130
The Commission received three comments on these proposed requirements. Two
commenters contended that the Commission should not require the opinion of counsel from foreign
SBS Entities because many non-U.S. entities currently engaged in the SBS business in the U.S. will
be legally prevented from registering as SBS Entities. 131 One commenter expressed concern that
requiring nonresident SBS Entities to provide an opinion of counsel and certify that they can
provide the Commission with access to their records and submit to inspections could decrease
market liquidity and cause market disruptions, and could introduce competitive disparities with
respect to market access. 132 The third commenter stated, in a section of its letter titled “Direct
access to Firm Records,” that SBS Entities should not be required to certify or obtain an opinion of
counsel because “any need to access the books or records of [a European Union] firm or to carryout onsite inspections of [European Union] firms, should be addressed through cooperation with the
relevant national regulator, via supervisory cooperation and information sharing which are well
established channels for cooperative oversight of firms that are internationally active.” 133
While it is possible that nonresident SBS Entities in jurisdictions with legal barriers could be
prevented from registering with the Commission because they are unable to comply with the
certification requirement, these firms also could choose to restructure their respective businesses
129

See proposed Rule 15Fb2-4(c)(1)(i) and Schedule F.

130

See proposed Rule 15Fb2-4(c)(1)(ii) and Schedule F.

131

See SIFMA Letter, at 9-10, and IIB Letter, at 19.

132

See IIB Letter, at 19.

133

See EC Letter at 3. We understand the term “European Union firm” to mean an SBS Entity
who is located in, and subject to the regulations of, one of the European Union member
states.

65

such that the registered entity can make the appropriate certification to allow it to register. In
addition, this requirement is designed to decrease, rather than increase, competitive disparities
between SBS Entities registered with the Commission with respect to their ability to provide access
to records and submit to examinations because U.S. SBS Entities must provide access to records
and are subject to our examinations. 134 While we recognize that this requirement may be an issue
for some prospective registrants, we believe that significant elements of an effective regulatory
regime are the Commission’s abilities to access registered SBS Entities’ books and records and to
inspect and examine the operations of registered SBS Entities. 135 Some jurisdictions’ laws may
require regulators to redact certain information prior to providing the books and records to the SEC
or withhold certain records altogether. Thus, if the Commission were to rely solely on informationsharing arrangements with foreign regulators, it could be unable to obtain complete copies of those
records, which could compromise the Commission’s ability to effectively supervise registered SBS
Entities. Therefore, we continue to believe that the Commission must have assurances about access
to those entities’ records and the ability to inspect and examine them in order to effectively fulfill its
regulatory oversight responsibilities with respect to SBS Entities registered with us.
Moreover, obtaining information through any third party raises the risk of delay in obtaining
information needed to complete staff examinations. Delays in obtaining such information could

134

See, Exchange Act Sections 15F(f)(1)(C), 15F(j)(4)(B), and the Books and Records
Proposing Release, which proposed Rule 18a-6(d) and changes to Rule 17a-4.

135

See, e.g., Dagong Global Credit Rating Agency, Exchange Act Release No. 62968 (Sept. 22,
2010) (denying application as an NRSRO due to applicant’s inability to comply with U.S.
securities laws, in part because records requests would have to be approved by a Chinese
regulator); Dominick & Dominick, Inc., Exchange Act Release No. 29243 (May 29, 1991)
(settled administrative proceeding involving a broker-dealer’s failure to furnish promptly to
the Commission copies of certain records required to be kept pursuant to Exchange Act
Section 17(a)(1) and Rule 17a–3 thereunder where the broker-dealer initially asserted that
Swiss law prevented it from producing the required records).

66

compromise the ability of the Commission to supervise registered SBS Entities effectively,
particularly in the case of SEC staff examinations initiated for cause. The Commission continues to
believe that it must be able to access registered SBS Entity books and records and inspect and
examine them without only going through a third party, such as a foreign regulator, to effectively
fulfill its regulatory oversight responsibilities.
The Commission’s memoranda of understanding with foreign counterparts on supervisory
cooperation matters (Supervisory MOUs) reflect the Commission’s approach to access described
above, and are intended to supplement, not replace the Commission’s authority to obtain books and
records from registrants and conduct onsite examinations without only going through a third
party. 136 In the Commission’s view, supervisory cooperation complements the Commission’s
access to SEC registrants in the oversight context. 137 Using various supervisory cooperation
mechanisms, including Supervisory MOUs, SEC staff and our foreign counterparts regularly
consult, cooperate, and exchange supervisory information on a confidential basis about regulated
entities that operate across borders, which assist staff with focusing their examinations and
identifying potential risk areas at Commission registrants, among other things. Our Supervisory

136

The Commission’s comprehensive supervisory MOUs generally contain the following
paragraph: “This MOU does not limit an Authority in taking solely those measures
described herein in fulfillment of its supervisory functions. In particular, this MOU does not
affect any right of any Authority to communicate with, conduct an On-Site Visit of (subject
the procedures described in Article Four), or obtain information or documents from, any
Person subject to its jurisdiction that is located in the territory of the other Authority.” The
Commission’s Supervisory Cooperation MOUs can be accessed at:
http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/oia/oia_cooparrangements.shtml#reg.

137

See The International Organization of Securities Commission’s (IOSCO) Final Report on
Principles Regarding Cross-Border Supervisory Cooperation at 15 (noting that “[supervisory
cooperation] is not a mechanism for altering regulatory obligations or limiting regulatory
responsibility with respect to regulators that have regulated entities in common).”

67

MOUs also discuss how the SEC and foreign regulators cooperate during onsite visits at these
firms.
In light of the above, the Commission is adopting paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of Rule 15Fb2-4 as
proposed, and is adopting paragraph (c)(1)(i) with one modification. As proposed, paragraph
(c)(1)(i) would have required a nonresident SBS Entity to certify on Schedule F of Form SBSE,
Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as appropriate, that it “can as a matter of law” provide the
Commission with prompt access to its books and records and submit to onsite inspection and
examination. As adopted, Rule 15Fb2-4(c)(1)(i) now requires the nonresident SBS Entity to certify
that it “can, as a matter of law, and will” do those things. 138 This change from the proposal is
intended to make clear to a nonresident SBS Entity that it is making an affirmative commitment to
comply with its obligation to provide the Commission with prompt access to its books and
records. 139
Paragraph (c)(2) of proposed Rule 15Fb2-4 would have required that registered nonresident
SBS Entities re-certify, on Schedule F to Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as
applicable, within 90 days after any changes in the legal or regulatory framework that would impact
the nonresident SBS Entity’s ability to provide, or the manner in which it provides, the Commission
prompt access to its books and records or impacts the Commission’s ability to inspect and examine
the nonresident SBS Entity. The re-certification would have been required to include a revised
opinion of counsel describing how, as a matter of law, the entity will continue to meet its

138

Failure to make this certification or provide an opinion of counsel would constitute a basis
for the Commission to deny an application for registration.

139

In accordance with Rule 15Fb1-1(b), as adopted, the SBS Entity will need to maintain a
manually signed copy of this certification as part of its books and records until at least three
years after the certification has been replaced or is no longer effective. See infra, Section
II.F for a discussion of Rule 15Fb1-1.

68

obligations to provide the Commission with prompt access to its books and records and to be
subject to Commission inspection and examination under the new regulatory regime. The
Commission did not receive any comments on this requirement. We are adopting this provision as
proposed. The Commission emphasizes that if a registered nonresident SBS Entity becomes unable
to comply with this certification because of such changes, or otherwise, then this may be a basis for
the Commission to institute proceedings to consider revoking the nonresident SBS Entity’s
registration.
E.

Special Situations
1.

Succession: Rule 15Fb2-5

The Commission proposed Rule 15Fb2-5 to provide a process through which an SBS Entity
could succeed to the business of another SBS Entity. 140 As proposed, Rule 15Fb2-5(a) would have
provided that, if an SBS Entity succeeds to and continues the business of another SBS Entity, the
registration of the predecessor SBS Entity would remain effective as the registration of the
successor if the successor files an application for registration in accordance with Rule 15Fb2-1
within 30 days after such succession, and the predecessor files a notice of withdrawal from
registration on Form SBSE-W. Paragraph (b) of proposed Rule 15Fb2-5 would have provided that
a successor firm that succeeds to the business of another, where the ownership or control of the SBS
Entity does not change (e.g., where the firm is changing its date or state of incorporation, form of
organization, or the composition of a partnership), may simply amend the registration of the
140

The proposed rule was based on Exchange Act Rule 15b1-3, which is applicable to
registered brokers and dealers and facilitates succession of registrants (see Registration
Proposing Release, at footnote 72). Consistent with the use of the term in connection with
broker-dealer registration, the term “succession” means that a successor firm acquires or
assumes substantially all of the assets and liabilities of the predecessor firm. Registration of
Successors to Broker-Dealers and Investment Advisers, Exchange Act Release No. 31661
(Dec. 28, 1992) (58 FR 7 (Jan. 4, 1993)).

69

predecessor SBS Entity on Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as appropriate, within
30 days after the change. The Commission received no comments on this proposed rule, and is
adopting it as proposed.
2. Insolvency: Rule 15Fb2-6
The Commission proposed Rule 15Fb2-6 to provide a process through which an executor,
administrator, guardian, conservator, assignee for the benefit of creditors, receiver, trustee in
insolvency or bankruptcy or other fiduciary appointed or qualified by order, judgment or decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction could continue the business of an SBS Entity. 141 Specifically,
proposed Rule 15Fb2-6 would have provided that the registration of the SBS Entity shall be deemed
to be the registration of the appointed fiduciary to continue the business of the registered SBS
Entity; provided that the fiduciary filed with the Commission, within 30 days after entering upon
the performance of his or her duties, an amended Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD,
as appropriate, indicating the fiduciary’s position with respect to management of the SBS Entity,
along with a copy of the order, judgment, decree, or other document appointing the fiduciary. The
Commission believes it is important to provide a fiduciary with time to close-out positions and/or
wind down an SBS Entity’s business. The Commission received no comments on this proposed
rule, and is adopting it as proposed.
F.

Electronic Signatures

The Commission proposed Rule 15Fb1-1 to establish requirements regarding electronically
submitted forms and certifications that contain signatures. Proposed paragraph (a) of Rule 15Fb1-1

141

The proposed rule was based on Exchange Act Rule 15b1-4, which applies to broker-dealer
registrations. Rule 15b1-4 allows fiduciaries to wind-up broker-dealer businesses without
the need to separately register as a broker-dealer (see Registration Proposing Release, at
footnote 74).

70

would have specified the format required for signatures to, or within, electronic submissions
(including signatures within the forms and certifications required by proposed Rules 15Fb2-1,
15Fb2-4 and 15Fb6-2, discussed above). 142 Specifically, proposed paragraph (a) of Rule 15Fb1-1
would have required that required signatures in electronic submissions be in typed form rather than
manual format. In addition, that paragraph would have specified that signatures in an HTML, XML
or XBRL document that are not required may, but are not required to, be presented in a graphic or
image file within the electronic filing. Further, proposed paragraph (a) of Rule 15Fb1-1 would have
specified that when used in connection with an electronic filing, the term “signature” meant an
electronic entry in the form of a magnetic impulse or other form of computer data compilation of
any letters or series of letters of characters comprising a name, executed, adopted or authorized as a
signature.

142

This rule is based on Section 302 of Regulation S-T [17 CFR 232.302] and is designed to
require standard formatting of electronic signatures and provide the Commission with the
ability to obtain additional documents to verify those signatures. Paragraph (a) of Section
302 generally requires that required signatures to, or within, any electronic submission (as
specified) must be in typed form rather than manual format; signatures in an HTML
document that are not required may, but are not required to, be presented in an HTML
graphic or image file within the electronic filing, in compliance with the formatting
requirements of the EDGAR Filer Manual; when used in connection with an electronic
filing, the term “signature” means an electronic entry in the form of a magnetic impulse or
other form of computer data compilation of any letters or series of letters or characters
comprising a name, executed, adopted or authorized as a signature; and signatures are not
required in unofficial PDF copies submitted in accordance with §232.104. Paragraph (b) of
Section 302 requires that each signatory to an electronic filing (as specified) shall manually
sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging or otherwise
adopting his or her signature that appears in typed form within the electronic filing; that such
document shall be executed before or at the time the electronic filing is made and shall be
retained by the filer for a period of five years; that, upon request, an electronic filer shall
furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy of any or all documents retained pursuant to
this section. Finally, paragraph (c) of Section 302 states that where the Commission's rules
require a registrant to furnish to a national securities exchange or national securities
association paper copies of a document filed with the Commission in electronic format,
signatures to such paper copies may be in typed form.

71

In addition, proposed paragraph (b) of Rule 15Fb1-1 would have required that each
signatory to such an electronic filing manually sign a signature page or other document
authenticating, acknowledging or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appeared in typed
form within the electronic filing either before or at the time the electronic filing is made. Proposed
paragraph (b) also would have required that the SBS Entity create the manually signed document
when the electronic form is submitted, and furnish a copy of that document to the Commission upon
request. Proposed paragraph (c) of Rule 15Fb1-1 would have prohibited a person required to
provide a signature on an electronic submission from having another person sign the form or
certification on his or her behalf pursuant to a power of attorney or other form of confirming
authority. 143 Finally, proposed paragraph (d) would have required that the SBS Entity retain the
manually signed document associated with Schedules F and G of Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, or SBSEBD, as appropriate, until at least three years after the form or certification has been replaced or is no
longer effective.
The Commission received no comments on proposed Rule 15Fb1-1. The Commission
believes that these provisions are necessary to assure that persons signing certifications can be held
responsible for their statements. We therefore are adopting Rule 15Fb1-1 substantially as proposed,
but with a modification in paragraph (a) to eliminate reference to conditional registration and to
change the phrase “series of letters of characters” to “series of letters or characters” to correct this
typographical error.

143

Paragraph (c) of Rule 15Fb1-1 is based on paragraph (c) of Exchange Act Rule 15d-14,
which states, “[a] person required to provide a certification specified in paragraph (a), […]
may not have the certification signed on his or her behalf pursuant to a power of attorney or
other form of confirming authority.”

72

G.

Forms
1.

Form SBSE

As proposed, Form SBSE was generally based on Form BD (the consolidated Form used by
broker-dealers to register with the Commission, states and SROs), as modified to recognize
differences between the broker-dealer and security-based swap businesses. We explained in the
Registration Proposing Release that using Form BD as a template for the registration of SBS
Entities would be logical and efficient because Form BD has been used to gather and organize
information concerning applicants’ business operations to facilitate registration decisions, as well as
ongoing examination and monitoring of registrations, and SBS Entities will be subject to many
requirements similar to those that affect broker-dealers. 144
The Commission re-proposed Form SBSE in the Cross-Border Proposing Release to add
three questions and to add a new instruction to clarify that if an application is not filed properly or
completely, it may be delayed or rejected. 145 Two of the new questions were designed to elicit
information with respect to substituted compliance. The other requested information on whether
potential applicants are registered with or subject to the jurisdiction of a foreign financial regulatory
authority, which would provide the Commission with information regarding other regulatory
schemes that may be applicable to an applicant. In addition, the re-proposal modified proposed
Schedule F to provide applicants with additional space to provide information on foreign regulators
with which they may be registered or that otherwise have jurisdiction over them.
The Commission requested comment on all aspects of Form SBSE in the Registration
Proposing Release and in the Cross-Border Proposing Release. The Commission received one

144

Registration Proposing Release, at 65802.

145

Cross-Border Proposing Release, at 31027-8 and 31224-77.

73

comments on proposed Form SBSE. 146 The commenter contended that several of the required
disclosures on proposed Form SBSE, including the disclosure of disciplinary matters affecting
control affiliates, appear to impose significant burdens on registrants. 147
The Commission believes that the information proposed to be disclosed on Form SBSE,
including the disclosure of disciplinary matters affecting control affiliates, is necessary and
appropriate for it to be able to effectively carry out its responsibilities with respect to registration
and on-going oversight of SBS Entities. While we recognize that there may be costs involved in
collecting and providing this information, we have tailored these forms to minimize costs for
applicants by providing shorter forms for applicants already registered or registering with the
Commission as broker-dealers and applicants already registered or registering with the CFTC as
swap dealers or major swap participants so that they are not required to submit duplicative
information. The information provided through those disclosure reporting pages on the applicant
and its control affiliates will help the Commission identify potential risks to the applicant, the
markets, and investors, and determine whether the Commission should grant registration. 148 The
information also will be used by examination staff to help understand potential risks on a going
forward basis and to assist in determining which firms should be examined.
An applicant’s control affiliates are persons it controls, who control it, or who are under
common control with it, and thus are in a unique position to impact the applicant’s operations. To
146

See SIFMA Letter, at page 4.

147

Id.

148

Pursuant to Rule 15Fb2-1(e), the Commission will grant ongoing registration if it finds that
the requirements of Exchange Act Section 15F(b) are satisfied, but may institute
proceedings to determine whether ongoing registration should be denied if it does not make
such finding or if the applicant is subject to a statutory disqualification (as described in
Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Exchange Act), or the Commission is aware of
inaccurate statements in the application or certification.

74

the extent a control affiliate controls the applicant, it is in a unique position to affect the applicant’s
ability to comply with applicable regulations, and a disciplinary proceeding could reflect issues
shared by the applicant. To the extent a control affiliate is under the applicant’s control, if it is
subject to a disciplinary proceeding it may provide insights into issues also present at the applicant,
and could have a financial impact on the applicant. 149 Further, the types of disclosures required by
the Forms are generally limited to significant actions (e.g., relating to felonies, whether the
applicant or a control affiliate has been found to have made a false statement or omission or violated
applicable regulations, or whether the applicant or a control affiliate has been suspended from
engaging in an investment-related business). It is important for us to be aware of these issues not
just at registration, but also on an ongoing basis to inform our oversight of registered SBS Entities.
Given this we believe it is important for SBS Entities to include this information when they register
and on a going forward basis (i.e., by amending their application), so that we can fully consider the
firm’s disciplinary history and how the disciplinary history of its control affiliates may impact its
ability to comply with our regulations.
The Commission is adopting Form SBSE, substantially as re-proposed, but modified as
follows. First, we added text throughout the Form to elicit information regarding unique
identification codes (or “UICs”), which the applicant or its control affiliates might have, as well as a
definition for UICs. 150 We included UICs in Regulation SBSR, 151 and believe it is appropriate to

149

For instance, a disciplinary proceeding against an applicant’s subsidiary relating to lax
internal controls, while not conclusively indicative of problems at the applicant, could
indicate the applicant may need to review and strengthen its own internal controls.
Similarly, if a disciplinary proceeding against an affiliated entity under common control
highlights supervisory issues, it could indicate that the organization more generally –
including the applicant – may need to strengthen the supervisory structure.

150

The definition reads, “For purposes of Form SBSE, the term “unique identification code” or
“UIC” means a unique identification code assigned to a person by an internationally
75

collect this information, to the extent such persons have been assigned UICs, in Form SBSE for use
by the staff and the public. Second, we have made a technical change to provide additional
clarification of applicable law. In particular, the re-proposed Form stated “intentional
misstatements or omissions of facts may constitute criminal violations.” We have modified this
statement to clarify that intentional misstatements or omissions of fact when filing information with
the Commission may constitute a federal criminal violation under 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 15 U.S.C.
78ff(a). 152
Thus, as adopted, Form SBSE requires an applicant to provide certain general corporate and
contact information. 153 Further, the applicant must identify whether it is applying to register as an
SBS Dealer or Major SBS Participant and whether it is succeeding to the business of another SBS
Entity, 154 and must briefly describe its business. 155 In addition, the applicant must provide

recognized standards-setting system that is recognized by the Commission [pursuant to Rule
903(a) of Regulation SBSR (17 CFR 242.903(a))].” In the SBSR Adopting Release, the
Commission recognized the Global LEI System as meeting the criteria specified in Rule
903. We also made this change to Forms SBSE-A and SBSE-BD.
151

Regulation SBSR—Reporting and Dissemination of Security-Based Swap Information,
Exchange Act Release No. 74244, (Feb. 11, 2015), 80 FR 14564 (Mar. 19, 2015) (the
“Regulation SBSR Adopting Release”). In particular, see Rule 901(qq) and Rule 903(a).

152

The addition of the citations to 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a) are designed to clarify
which federal criminal statute would be violated. We made the same modification to all of
the Forms as adopted.

153

Specifically, Form SBSE requires the following: the applicant’s name, address, tax
identification number, phone number, other names the business might be known as, a
mailing address if it differs from the main address, the firm’s website address, and the
identity and contact information for the SBS Entity’s contact person and CCO. See Form
SBSE, Item 1. In addition, Form SBSE requires an applicant to provide its location and date
of origin, its type of organization (e.g., corporation, partnership, limited liability company),
the month of its fiscal year end, and whether it is a U.S. branch of a nonresident entity. See
Form SBSE, Items 6 and 8.

154

See Form SBSE, Items 2 and 9 and Schedule D.

155

See Form SBSE, Item 7.

76

information regarding other regulators with which it may already be registered, including foreign
regulators. 156 The Form also requires that the applicant provide information as to whether any other
person, firm or organization will hold its books and records or execute, trade, custody, clear or settle
on behalf of the applicant. 157 In addition, Form SBSE requires that the applicant indicate whether it
intends to hold or maintain any funds or securities to collateralize counterparty transactions. 158
Form SBSE also elicits information regarding whether the applicant intends to compute capital or
margin, or price customer or proprietary positions, using mathematical models and whether the
applicant is subject to regulation by a prudential regulator. 159 The applicant also must provide
information regarding whether it intends to work with the Commission and its primary regulator to
have the Commission determine whether the requirements of its primary regulator’s regulatory
system are comparable to the Commission’s or avail itself of a previously granted substituted
compliance determination. 160 The applicant also must provide information regarding the identity of
persons who directly or indirectly control, are controlled by, or are under common control with the
applicant and whether those persons are in the securities, investment advisory, or banking
business. 161 Finally, Form SBSE requires that the applicant provide information regarding certain

156

See Form SBSE, Items 15, 16, and 17, and Schedules D and F.

157

See Form SBSE, Item 11 and Schedule D.

158

See Form SBSE, Item 10.

159

See Form SBSE, Items 4 and 5.

160

See Form SBSE, Item 3.

161

See Form SBSE, Items 12 and 13, and Schedules A, B, and D.

77

criminal, regulatory, civil judicial, and financial actions taken against the applicant and its control
affiliates. 162 Form SBSE must be signed by the applicant.
Form SBSE also contains Schedules A, B, C, D, and F. Schedules A and B to Form SBSE
are used to elicit more specific information on the applicant’s direct and indirect owners. Schedule
D to Form SBSE furnishes space for the applicant to provide additional information regarding its
responses to certain questions in the Form. 163 Schedule F to Form SBSE provides nonresident
applicants with a standard manner to provide the required certification regarding access, and also
elicits information regarding the applicant’s agent for service of process and the foreign regulators
with which the applicant may be registered, as required by Rule 15Fb2-4. As described more fully
above in Section II.1. regarding Associated Persons, we also added new Schedule C to Form SBSE
to elicit information regarding non-natural associated persons subject to statutory disqualification
that the SBS Entity permits to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf
under the Rule 15Fb6-1 exclusion.164
The Commission intends to use the information disclosed by applicants in Form SBSE
(including the Schedules and DRPs), along with the certifications in Form SBSE-C, to determine
whether to grant registration or institute proceedings to determine whether to deny registration. In
addition, this information will assist the Commission in its ongoing oversight of an SBS Entity, for
example by assisting representatives of the Commission in the preparation for examination of an

162

See Form SBSE, Item 14. For each “Yes” answer to one of the sub-parts of Item 14, the
applicant must also file a corresponding disclosure reporting page (or “DRP”)) to provide
additional information.

163

See Items 1.C.2, 9, 11, 12, 13, 15, and 16 of Form SBSE.

164

Schedule C was also added to Forms SBSE-A and SBSE-BD.

78

SBS Entity, or more broadly to monitor risks specific to a firm or to the market more generally or to
assess trends across firms.
2. Form SBSE-A
The Commission proposed Form SBSE-A to allow applicants that are not registered with the
Commission as broker-dealers, but that are registered or registering with the CFTC as either a swap
dealer or major swap participant, to use a shorter registration form to file their application for
registration with the Commission.165 Form SBSE-A was designed to make it easier for dual
applicants to file with both agencies. 166 An applicant filing with the Commission on Form SBSE-A
would also need to provide the Commission with a copy of the form it files with NFA to register as
a swap dealer or major swap participant. 167 Form SBSE-A was designed to provide the
Commission with data generally not included on the forms the applicant must file with the CFTC
that the Commission will need to adequately review an application for registration. 168 As discussed
in the Registration Proposing Release, while some information elicited via Form SBSE-A also may
be elicited by the CFTC’s form (e.g., the applicant’s name, address, and phone number), the
Commission stated that it is necessary for the Commission to receive this information directly to
allow the Commission to match the Form SBSE-A with the CFTC Form and to coordinate the

165

See Registration Proposing Release, at 65804.

166

Id.

167

In the CFTC Final Registration Rules, the CFTC amended Rule 3.10(a) to require that swap
dealers and major swap participants register by filing Form 7-R with the NFA. Swap
dealers and major swap participant applicants must include with their Form 7-R any
necessary Forms 8-R. See Registration of Swap Dealers and Major Swap Participants, 77
FR 2613 (Jan. 19, 2012). See also supra, footnote 7.

168

See Registration Proposing Release, at 65804. We believe the information elicited by Forms
SBSE-A, along with information included on the Form 7-R the applicant is required to
provide, will provide us with substantially the same information as what is elicited by Form
SBSE.

79

information elicited through Form SBSE-A with other information the Commission may have on
the applicant. 169 The Commission further stated that it believed that allowing these applicants to
use Form SBSE-A, rather than Form SBSE, should reduce the costs and burdens associated with
filing distinctly different forms to register with both the Commission and CFTC. 170
The Commission re-proposed Form SBSE-A in the Cross-Border Proposing Release to
make changes similar to those made to Form SBSE – to add the same instruction and to add three
questions to Form SBSE, and to modify Schedule F in the same manner. 171 As discussed above in
Section II.G.2, the new instruction was designed to clarify that if an application is not filed properly
or completely, it may be delayed or rejected. Two of the new questions were designed to elicit
information with respect to substituted compliance. The third requests information on whether the
applicant is registered with or subject to the jurisdiction of a foreign financial regulatory authority,
which would provide the Commission with information regarding other regulatory schemes that
may be applicable to an applicant. Finally, the re-proposal modified Schedule F to provide
applicants with additional space to provide information on foreign regulators with which they may
be registered or that otherwise have jurisdiction over them.
The Commission requested comment on all aspects of Form SBSE-A in the Registration
Proposing Release and the Cross-Border Proposing Release. While the Commission received no
comments on Form SBSE-A, we did receive one comment on Form SBSE that could also be
applicable to Form SBSE-A. 172 Specifically, the commenter contended that several of the required
disclosures on proposed Form SBSE, including the disclosure of disciplinary matters affecting
169

Id.

170

Id.

171

Cross-Border Proposing Release, at 31027-28 and 31224-77.

172

See SIFMA Letter at 4.

80

control affiliates, appear to impose significant burdens on registrants. 173 As discussed in more
detail in Section II.G.1 above, the Commission believes that the information proposed to be
disclosed on these Forms, including the disclosure of disciplinary matters affecting control
affiliates, is necessary and appropriate for it to be able to effectively carry out its responsibilities
with respect to registration and on-going oversight of SBS Entities.
The Commission is adopting Form SBSE-A, substantially as re-proposed, with the same
modifications made to the Form SBSE. 174 We also added text to clarify that the Form 7-R the
applicant provides must be legible.
Thus, as adopted, Form SBSE-A requires an applicant to provide certain general corporate
and contact information. 175 In addition, Form SBSE-A elicits information as to whether the
applicant is succeeding to the business of a currently registered SBS Entity. 176 Form SBSE-A also
requires an applicant to indicate whether it is a U.S. branch of a nonresident entity. 177 Further, the
applicant must identify whether it is applying to register as an SBS Dealer or Major SBS
Participant, and briefly describe its business. 178 The applicant also must provide information
regarding other regulators with which it may already be registered, including foreign regulators, and

173

Id.

174

See supra, footnotes 150 (regarding UICs), 152 (regarding material misstatements and
omissions), and 164 (regarding Schedule C).

175

Specifically, Form SBSE requires the following: the applicant’s name, address, tax
identification number, phone number, other names the business might be known as, a
mailing address if it differs from the main address, the firm’s website address, and the
identity and contact information for the SBS Entity’s contact person and CCO. See Form
SBSE-A, Item 1.

176

See Form SBSE-A, Item 16.

177

See Form SBSE-A, Item 6.

178

See Form SBSE-A, Items 2 and 7.

81

whether it engages in any other non-securities, financial services industry-related business. 179 The
Form also requires that the applicant provide information as to whether any other person, firm or
organization will hold its books and records or execute, trade, custody, clear or settle on behalf of
the applicant. 180 Form SBSE-A also elicits information regarding whether the applicant intends to
compute capital or margin, or price customer or proprietary positions, using mathematical models,
and whether it intends to hold or maintain any funds or securities to collateralize counterparty
transactions. 181 In addition, the applicant must provide information regarding the identity of
persons who directly or indirectly control, are controlled by, or are under common control with the
applicant and whether those persons are in the securities, investment advisory, or banking business,
as well as information on the applicant’s principals. 182 The applicant also must provide information
regarding whether it intends to work with the Commission and its primary regulator to have the
Commission determine whether the requirements of its primary regulator’s regulatory system are
comparable to the Commission’s or avail itself of a previously granted substituted compliance
determination. 183 Form SBSE-A must be signed by the applicant.

179

See Form SBSE-A, Items 5, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 17, and Schedule F.

180

See Form SBSE-A, Item 13 and Schedule B.

181

See Form SBSE-A, Items 4 and 12.

182

See Form SBSE-A, Items 14 and 15, and Schedule B, and Items 18 and 19 and Schedules A
and B. Schedule A identifies all principals who are individuals (i.e., natural persons). Item
19 requests that the applicant identify, on Section IV of Schedule B, all principals who are
not individuals. As the CFTC does not require principals that are not natural persons
provide information on past regulatory actions, Schedule B indicates that the applicant must
complete Schedule D of the Form SBSE-A and the relevant DRP pages for all persons
identified in Section IV. This will assure that the Commission has similar information to
consider when reviewing Forms SBSE-A as is available when they review Forms SBSE and
SBSE-BD.

183

See Form SBSE-A, Item 3.

82

Form SBSE-A also contains Schedules A, B, C, D, and F. Schedules A, B, and D differ
slightly from those attached to Form SBSE. Schedule A to Form SBSE-A furnishes space for an
applicant to list all of its principals that are individuals. Schedule B to Form SBSE-A furnishes
space for the applicant to provide additional information regarding its responses to certain questions
in the Form. Schedule D to Form SBSE-A, which applicants must complete for each principal
identified in Section IV of Schedule B, requires that the applicant provide information regarding
certain criminal, regulatory, civil judicial, and financial actions taken against each identified
principal that is not an individual/natural person. 184 As with Form SBSE, Schedule C elicits
information regarding non-natural associated persons subject to statutory disqualification that the
SBS Entity permits to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf under the
Rule 15Fb6-1 exclusion, and Schedule F provides nonresident applicants with a place to provide the
required certification regarding access, and elicits information regarding the applicant’s agent for
service of process and the foreign regulators with which the applicant may be registered, as required
by Rule 15Fb2-4.
The Commission intends to use the information disclosed by applicants in Form SBSE-A
(including the Schedules and DRPs), together with the information disclosed on CFTC Form 7-R
and the certifications in Form SBSE-C, to determine whether to grant registration or institute
proceedings to determine whether to deny registration. In addition, this information will assist the
Commission in its ongoing oversight of an SBS Entity, for example by assisting representatives of
the Commission in the preparation for examination of an SBS Entity, or more broadly to monitor
risks specific to a firm or to the market more generally or to assess trends across firms.

184

See Form SBSE-A, Schedule D. For each “Yes” answer to one of the questions in Schedule
D, the applicant must also file a corresponding DRP to provide additional information.

83

3. Form SBSE-BD
Similar to the Form SBSE-A, the Commission proposed that applicants also registered or
registering with the Commission as broker-dealers file their application for registration on an
alternative to Form SBSE, or Form SBSE-BD. 185 Form SBSE-BD was based on Form BD, but is
designed to provide the Commission with data not included on the Form BD (to which the
Commission already has access). 186 The Commission stated its belief that requiring that these
applicants use Form SBSE-BD should reduce the costs and burdens on applicants that are already
registered or registering with the Commission as broker-dealers. 187
The Commission re-proposed Form SBSE-BD in the Cross-Border Proposing Release to add
the same instructions as were proposed to be added to Forms SBSE and SBSE-A, to add the same
question proposed to be added to Forms SBSE and SBSE-A that requests information on whether
the applicant is registered with or subject to the jurisdiction of a foreign financial regulatory
authority, and to modify Schedule F to provide applicants with additional space to provide
information on foreign regulators with which they may be registered or that otherwise have
jurisdiction over them. 188 We did not propose to add the other two questions relating to substituted
compliance because the Commission proposed that it would not grant any substituted compliance
relief for a registered broker-dealer. 189

185

Registration Proposing Release, at 65805.

186

Id. The information elicited by Forms SBSE-BD, along with information included on the
applicant’s Form BD, will provide us with substantially the same information as what is
elicited by Form SBSE.

187

Id.

188

Cross-Border Proposing Release, at 31027-28.

189

Id. at 31028 n.587.

84

The Commission requested comment on all aspects of Form SBSE-BD in the Registration
Proposing Release and in the Cross-Border Proposing Release. The Commission received one
comment on proposed Form SBSE-BD. 190 This commenter highlighted the fact that the forms, as
proposed and re-proposed, fail to recognize that a registered OTC derivatives dealer may also apply
for registration as an SBS Entity. 191 As OTC derivatives dealers must file Form BD with the
Commission to register as an OTC derivatives dealer, 192 we believe it is appropriate to permit these
entities to file Form SBSE-BD, rather than Form SBSE. We have added new Item 5 to Form
SBSE-BD to ask whether an applicant is already registered with the Commission as an OTC
derivatives dealer so that the Commission can be made aware of, and consider, this information
when making a determination regarding whether to grant registration.
The Commission is adopting Form SBSE-BD, substantially as re-proposed, with three
modifications. First, as highlighted above, we added new Item 5 to Form SBSE-BD to ask whether
an applicant is already registered with the Commission as an OTC derivatives dealer to address an
issue raised by a commenter. In addition, we made the same modifications made to the Form
SBSE. 193 Thus, as adopted, Form SBSE-BD requires an applicant to provide certain general
corporate and contact information. 194 Further, the applicant must identify whether it is applying to
190

See Nomura Letter.

191

This commenter states, “NGFP suggests that the Commission contemplate dually-registered
OTC DD/SBSD entities by making conforming changes to the registration form to reflect a
registrant's status as an OTC DD (as opposed to only considering a full purpose brokerdealer/SBSD).” See Nomura Letter, at 2.

192

See Rule 15b1-1(a).

193

See supra, footnotes 152 (regarding UICs), 152 (regarding material misstatements and
omissions), and 164 (regarding Schedule C).

194

Specifically, Form SBSE requires the following: the applicant’s name, central registration
depository number, the firm’s website address, and the identity and contact information for
the SBS Entity’s contact person and CCO. See Form SBSE-BD, Item 1.

85

register as an SBS Dealer or Major SBS Participant, and briefly describe its business. 195 Further,
the applicant must provide information regarding whether it is registered, or registering, with the
CFTC as a swap dealer or major swap participant, and whether it is registered with a foreign
financial regulatory authority. 196 The applicant also must provide information regarding whether it
is subject to regulation by a prudential regulator (as defined in 3(a)(39) of the CEA). 197 Form
SBSE-BD must be signed by the applicant. Form SBSE-BD also contains the same Schedules C
and F as are included with Forms SBSE and SBSE-A, and are described above in Section II.G.1.
The Commission intends to use the information disclosed by applicants in Form SBSE-BD,
together with the information disclosed in Form BD and the certifications in Form SBSE-C, to
determine whether to grant registration or institute proceedings to determine whether to deny
registration. In addition, this information will assist the Commission in its ongoing oversight of an
SBS Entity, for example by assisting representatives of the Commission in the preparation for
examination of an SBS Entity, or more broadly to monitor risks specific to a firm or to the market
more generally or to assess trends across firms.
4. Form SBSE-C
The Commission proposed Form SBSE-C to provide SBS Entities with a standard format
and process through which to file the Senior Officer Certification required pursuant to proposed
Rule 15Fb2-1(b), and all SBS Entities would have been required to file Form SBSE-C to be
considered for ongoing registration. 198 As proposed, Form SBSE-C would have included
instructions both requiring electronic submission and explaining how the form should be filed
195

See Form SBSE-BD, Items 2 and 6.

196

See Form SBSE-BD, Items 3 and 7, and Schedule F.

197

See Form SBSE-BD, Item 4.

198

See Registration Proposing Release, at 65805.

86

electronically, and would have included the applicant’s name, date, and SEC number, along with
the signature, name and title of the senior officer signing the certification. 199
We are adopting Form SBSE-C as proposed, but with modifications. 200 First, we amended
the Form to reflect the changes to the Senior Officer Certification discussed above. 201 The
certification now requires that a senior officer of the applicant certify that, after due inquiry, he or
she has reasonably determined that the SBS Entity has developed and implemented written policies
and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws and the rules
thereunder, and that he or she has documented the process by which he or she reached such
determination.
We also have moved the CCO Certification Regarding Associated Persons, which
previously was included in Schedule G to Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD, into Form SBSEC. 202 Rule 15Fb2-3 as adopted requires that an SBS Entity amend its Form SBSD, SBSD-A, or
SBSD-BD, as applicable, if it becomes inaccurate, and this includes the schedules. While other
requirements impose an ongoing obligation on SBS Entities to collect information on associated
persons to assure that they are not subject to statutory disqualification, unless otherwise specifically
provided by rule, regulation or order of the Commission, the CCO Certification Regarding
Associated Persons is a one-time certification to provide the Commission with information before
making a determination as to whether to grant registration or institute proceedings to deny
199

Id.

200

We also made a technical change to add the same text included in the other Forms to inform
applicants that intentional misstatements or omissions of fact when filing information with
the Commission may constitute a federal criminal violation under 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 15
U.S.C. 78ff(a). See supra, footnote 152.

201

See supra, Section II.A.1.ii.

202

While this certification may only need to be signed once, the prohibition in Exchange Act
Section 15F(b)(6) is ongoing.

87

registration. 203 To clarify this, we are moving the CCO Certification Regarding Associated Persons
from Schedule G into Form SBSE-C.
As the Senior Officer Certification provides us with an indication that the applicant has
reviewed the applicable rules and has developed and implemented written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to prevent violation of the federal securities laws and the rules thereunder, and
the CCO Certification Regarding Associated Persons provides us with an indication that the
applicant has reviewed information regarding its associated persons to assure that none is subject to
statutory disqualification unless otherwise provided by Commission rule, regulation or order, the
Commission will consider these certifications contained in Form SBSE-C, along with the
information disclosed by applicants in Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, or SBSE-BD, as applicable
(including the Schedules and DRPs), to determine whether it is appropriate to grant registration or
institute proceedings to determine whether to deny registration.
5.

Form SBSE-W

The Commission proposed Form SBSE-W to provide SBS Entities with a form through
which they could withdraw from Commission registration. 204 The Form was based on Form BDW
(the Form used by broker-dealers to withdraw from registration with the Commission), because the
Commission has found Form BDW to be an effective vehicle for gathering information necessary
for it and the SROs to determine whether it is appropriate to allow a registered broker-dealer to
withdraw from registration. 205 As proposed, Form SBSE-W was modified from Form BDW to
recognize differences between the broker-dealer and security-based swap businesses. 206
203

15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)(6).

204

Registration Proposing Release, at 65806.

205

Id.

206

Id.
88

The purpose of proposed Form SBSE-W was to provide registrants with a simple, consistent
process to notify the Commission when they wish to withdraw from registration, and to provide the
Commission with information to help it determine whether it is necessary or appropriate in the
public interest for the protection of investors to permit a registered SBS Entity to withdraw from
registration (and, if so, at what time and upon what terms and conditions).
The Commission received no comment on Form SBSE-W, and is adopting it substantially as
proposed. 207 We revised General Instruction 3, which stated that a firm must file Form SBSE-W
electronically, to specify that “[t]he registrant must file Form SBSE-W through the EDGAR system,
and must utilize the EDGAR Filer Manual (as defined in 17 CFR 232. 11) to file and amend Form
SBSE-W electronically to assure the timely acceptance and processing of those filings.”
Thus, as adopted, Form SBSE-W requires a registered SBS Entity to provide its name,
address, tax identification number, phone number, other names the business might be known as, a
mailing address if it differs from the main address, the firm’s website address, and regulatory
identification numbers assigned to it. 208 Further, the registered SBS Entity must identify whether it
is withdrawing from registration as an SBS Dealer or Major SBS Participant. 209 Further, the
registered SBS Entity must identify the date it ceased doing a security-based swap business, and
provide information on the reason it is seeking to withdraw from SEC registration. 210 The
registered SBS Entity also must provide information regarding whether it holds any segregated
counterparty collateral, and if it is the subject of, or named in, any investment-related investigations,

207

We made a change also made in Form SBSE and discussed above. See supra, footnote 152.

208

See Form SBSE-W, Item 1.

209

See Form SBSE-W, Item 2.

210

See Form SBSE-W, Items 3 and 4.

89

customer-initiated complaints, or private civil litigations. 211 Finally, Form SBSE-W requests
information on the location where the entity’s books and records will be located, and who will have
custody of those records (so the Commission will know who to contact, after the entity withdraws,
to gain access to those records). 212 Form SBSE-W specifies that a registered SBS Entity must
update any incomplete or inaccurate information contained on Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A or Form
SBSE-BD, as appropriate, prior to filing its notice of withdrawal on Form SBSE-W. In addition,
Form SBSE-W must be signed by the applicant.
The Commission intends to use the information collected by Form SBSE-W to help it
determine whether it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest for the protection of investors
to permit a registered SBS Entity to withdraw from registration (and, if so, at what time and upon
what terms and conditions, if any).
III.

Explanation of Dates
A.

Effective Date

These final rules will be effective 60 days following publication in the Federal Register.
B.

Registration Compliance Date

One commenter stated that it believed it to be “critical that, before registration is required,
the Commission finalize (i) the rules defining ‘security-based swap,’ ‘security-based swap dealer’
and ‘major security-based swap participant;’ (ii) the rules imposing capital and margin requirements
on SBSDs and MSBSPs; (iii) its position on inter-affiliate security-based swaps; and (iv) its
position on the extraterritorial application of Title VII,” because “[u]ntil that time, market
participants will not be able to fully analyze the critical entity structuring issues that allow them to

211

See Form SBSE-W, Items 5 and 6.

212

See Form SBSE-W, Item 7.

90

determine which entities to register and prepare for Title VII compliance.” 213 Other commenters,
both to the Registration Proposing Release and other Commission requests for comment, expressed
similar sentiments. 214
With respect to the particular issues identified by one of the commenters, 215 the Commission
has adopted rules governing the application of the “security-based swap dealer” and “major
security-based swap participant” definitions to cross-border security-based swap activities, 216 as

213

See SIFMA Letter, at 3. In response to the Commission’s Statement of General Policy on
Sequencing of Dodd-Frank Act Compliance Dates (Statement of General Policy on
Sequencing of the Compliance Dates for Final Rules Applicable to Security-Based Swaps
Adopted Pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street
Reform and Consumer Protection Act (77 FR 35625, Jun. 14, 2012), SIFMA reiterated this
position. See 8/13/2012 SIFMA Letter at 6, and 1/13/15 SIFMA Letter, at 3-4.

214

See, e.g., IIB Letter, at 28, which states, “final cross-border rules should be available well in
advance of the deadline for SBSD and MSBSP registration, as these registrants will be
subject to a number of complex new rules.” See also comment letter from a group of
entities (including American Bankers Association, ABA Securities Association, The
Clearing House Association L.L.C., Financial Services Forum, Financial Services
Roundtable, Futures Industry Association, Institute of International Bankers, International
Swaps and Derivatives Association, Investment Company Institute, Managed Funds
Association, and Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association), generally
regarding “Comment Periods and Implementation of New Derivatives Regulations” (and not
associated with any particular release), dated Dec. 6, 2010, which states (on page 2) “We
also are concerned about a process that provides for provisional registration of entities prior
to adoption of final rules defining the various categories of registrants and establishing their
respective obligations. A more logical sequence would first adopt definitions for the
different regulated entities, then requirements for such entities, and finally registration of
such entities.”

215

See SIFMA Letter, at 3; 8/13/2012 SIFMA Letter, at 6; and 1/13/15 SIFMA Letter, at 3-4.

216

See Exchange Act rule 3a71-3 (addressing application of “security-based swap dealer”
definition to cross-border security-based swap activities); Exchange Act rule 3a67-10
(addressing application of “major security-based swap participant” definition to cross-border
security-based swap positions). The Commission proposed certain amendments to these
rules in April 2015 to address security-based swap transactions involving two non-U.S.
persons that are arranged, negotiated, or executed by personnel of a dealer in the United
States, but as noted in that release, we do not expect those amendments to require additional
entities to register as security-based swap dealers. See Cross-Border Activity Proposing
Release, at footnote 384 and accompanying text.

91

well as the treatment of inter-affiliate swaps for purposes of performing the SBS Dealer de minimis
and Major SBS Participant position threshold calculation. 217 The Commission has not yet finalized
other proposed rules applicable to SBS Entities. 218
We recognize that firms may need time to review the rules we adopt for SBS Entities before
they can make informed decisions relating to business structure, including whether they will
continue to conduct a security-based swap business in the U.S., and to determine which of their
associated persons may be subject to the statutory prohibition provision before they register. For
that reason, we are establishing a compliance date for the final rules adopted in this release as the
later of: six months after the date of publication in the Federal Register of a final rule release
adopting rules establishing capital, margin and segregation requirements for SBS Entities; the
compliance date of final rules establishing recordkeeping and reporting requirements for SBS
Entities; the compliance date of final rules establishing business conduct requirements under
Exchange Act Sections 15F(h) and 15F(k); or the compliance date for final rules establishing a
process for a registered SBS Entity to make an application to the Commission to permit an
associated person who is subject to a statutory disqualification to effect or be involved in effecting
security-based swaps on its behalf (such date referred to as the “Registration Compliance Date”).

217

See Exchange Act rule 3a71-1(d) (excluding from the security-based swap dealer de minimis
threshold calculations security-based swaps with a person’s majority-owned affiliates);
Exchange Act rule 3a67-3(e) (excluding from the major security-based swap participant
threshold calculations security-based swap positions with counterparties that are a person’s
majority-owned affiliates).

218

See the Capital and Margin Proposing Release, the Books and Records Proposing Release,
the Trade Acknowledgment Proposing Release, and the Business Conduct Standards
Proposing Release.

92

C.

SBS Entity Counting Date

The general calculations to determine whether a person may fit the definition of the term
SBS Dealer and Major SBS Participant have been in place since 2012. We believe, however, that it
is appropriate to provide firms with the ability to review the final rules that will be applicable to
SBS Entities so that they can decide whether to continue to engage in the type of business that
would require registration, modify their business practices, or cease those activities. In the
Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, the Commission explained that persons determined to
be SBS Dealers or Major SBS Participants under the regulations adopted therein need not register as
such until the dates provided for in the Commission’s final rules regarding SBS Entity registration
requirements, “and will not be subject to the requirements applicable to those dealers and major
participants until the dates provided in the applicable final rules.” 219 The Commission is now
providing the dates on which SBS Entities will become subject to the requirements applicable to
them based on their status as either an SBS Dealer or Major SBS Participant. Specifically, the
Commission now believes that, for purposes of complying with the registration and other
requirements, persons are not required to begin calculating whether their activities meet or exceed
the thresholds established in Exchange Act Rules 3a71-2, 3a67-3, and 3a67-5 until two months
prior to the Registration Compliance Date (“SBS Entity Counting Date”). This means that with
respect to compliance with the registration and other requirements applicable to SBS Dealers and
Major SBS Participants, only security-based swap positions connected with the dealing activity in
which the person - or any other entity controlling, controlled by or under common control with the
person - engages on or after the SBS Entity Counting Date will “count” toward determining that
person’s status as a “security-based swap dealer” and only positions held on or after the SBS
219

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, at 47368.
93

Counting Date will count towards determining that person’s status as a “major security-based swap
participant.”
To the extent that a person’s status as an SBS Entity is based on a test that requires that
person to look-back over a period of time, no transactions entered into prior to the SBS Entity
Counting Date will “count” for purposes of the relevant test. For example, Exchange Act Rule
3a71-2, which implements the statutory exception from the “security-based swap dealer” definition
for a person who engages in a de minimis quantity of security-based swap dealing, is based on
positions entered into by a person (and, subject to certain exceptions, any other entity controlling,
controlled by or under common control with that person) over the preceding 12 months. While the
Commission recognizes that, for purposes of this example, there would not be a full 12 months of
positions to consider until the date that is one year from the date of the SBS Entity Counting Date,
we do, however, expect that some larger SBS Dealers will cross a de minimis threshold within a
shorter period of time. In no event, however, would a person be deemed to be an SBS Dealer or
Major SBS Participant at any point prior to the SBS Entity Counting Date.
These timing requirements should provide firms with adequate time to review the final rules
applicable to SBS Entities and make appropriate business decisions before triggering the
requirement to register. This compliance timeline is designed to eliminate situations where persons
engaged in security-based swap business trigger the registration requirement before final
substantive rules applicable to SBS Entities are published, decide to cease the business activities
that would require registration, but still must register because of the twelve month look-back
required by the calculations in the definitions of the terms SBS Dealer and Major SBS
Participant. 220
220

See generally, 17 CFR 3a67–1 through 3a67-9 and 17 CFR 3a71-1 through 3a71-2.
94

IV.

Paperwork Reduction Act
Certain provisions of Rules 15Fb1-1 through 15Fb6-2 and Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, SBSE-

BD, and SBSE-W contain “collection of information requirements” within the meaning of the
Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 (“PRA”). An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person
is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid control
number. The Commission has submitted the information to the Office of Management and Budget
(“OMB”) for review in accordance with 44 U.S.C. 3507 and 5 CFR 1320.11. The title of this
collection is “Registration Rules for Security-Based Swap Entities.” The collection of information
was assigned OMB Control No. 3235-0696.
In the Registration Proposing Release, the Commission solicited comments on the collection
of information burdens associated with proposed Rules 15Fb1-1 through 15Fb6-1 and Forms SBSE,
SBSE-A, SBSE-BD, and SBSE-W. 221 In particular, the Commission asked whether commenters
agree with the Commission's estimate of the number of respondents and the burden associated with
compliance with these rules and forms. 222 As discussed more fully above in Section I.C, the
Commission originally received four comment letters in response to the proposed rules and
forms. 223 The Commission later received 31 additional comment letters in response to the Release
Reopening the Comment Period, of which six specifically commented on the proposed registration
process and forms. 224 The Commission also received 38 comment letters in response to the CrossBorder Proposing Release. 225 Of those, three commented on the proposed registration process and
221

See Registration Proposing Release, at 65812.

222

Id.

223

See supra, footnote 8.

224

See supra, footnote 10.

225

See supra, footnote 11.

95

forms. 226 One of the eleven commenters that commented on issues relating to the registration
process and forms raised issues relating directly or indirectly to the PRA discussion. 227 This
commenter raised issue with the Commission’s estimate as to the number of associated persons an
SBS Entity may employ, and is addressed in the discussion of Rules 15Fb6-1 and 15Fb6-2 below.
A.

Summary of Collection of Information

As required by Exchange Act Section 15F, the Commission is adopting Rules 15Fb1-1
through 15Fb6-2 and Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, SBSE-BD, SBSE-C and SBSE-W to facilitate
registration and withdrawal of SBS Entities.
Pursuant to paragraph (a) of Rule 15Fb2-1, each SBS Entity must file an application with
the Commission to register. Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD and the schedules thereto
require SBS Entities to provide specified information. Form SBSE is for SBS Entities not
registered or registering with the Commission as broker-dealers, nor registered or registering with
the CFTC as swap dealers or major swap participants. Form SBSE-A is for SBS Entities not
registered or registering with the Commission as broker-dealers but registered or registering with
the CFTC as swap dealers or major swap participants. Form SBSE-BD is for SBS Entities that are
registered or registering with the Commission as brokers or dealers. Schedules A through E of
these Forms and the DRPs require SBS Entities to provide certain, specified information, as
applicable. The Commission took efforts to minimize burdens and costs associated with the
application process by adopting alternate registration forms for SBS Entities that are registered or
registering either with the CFTC as swap dealers or major swap participants or with the
Commission as broker-dealers. The alternative forms (Forms SBSE-A and SBSE-BD) are shorter

226

See supra, footnote 12.

227

See SIFMA Letter at 7-8.

96

and should require that an SBS Entity expend less effort to research, complete, and file than Form
SBSE. An SBS Entity would only need to research, complete, and file one of the Forms.
Paragraph (a) also requires that each SBS Entity must file certifications on Form SBSE-C.
This Form contains the Senior Officer Certification required by Rule 15Fb2-1(b) and the CCO
Certification Regarding Associated Persons required by Rule 15Fb6-2(a).
Rule 15Fb2-3 requires that SBS Entities promptly amend their Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and
SBSE-BD with the Commission if they find that the information contained therein has become
inaccurate. SBS Entities will only need to amend that aspect of the Form that has become
inaccurate.
Rule 15Fb6-2(a) states that no SBS Entity may act as an SBS Entity unless it has certified,
on Form SBSE-C, that it neither knows, nor in the exercise of reasonable care should have known,
that any person associated with it who effects or is involved in effecting security-based swaps on its
behalf is subject to a statutory disqualification. Rule 15Fb6-2(b) requires that, to support this
certification, the SBS Entity’s CCO (or his or her designee) must review and sign the questionnaire
or application for employment the SBS Entity is required to obtain pursuant to the relevant
recordkeeping rule applicable to the SBS Entity, executed by each associated person who is a
natural person and who effects or is involved in effecting security-based swaps on the SBS Entity’s
behalf. Rule 15Fb6-2(b) also indicates that the questionnaire or application shall serve as the basis
for a background check of the associated person to verify that the associated person is not subject to
statutory disqualification. SBS Entities would only need to fulfill this obligation for associated
persons that effect or are involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the SBS Entity.
Rule 15Fb2-4 requires each nonresident SBS Entity to obtain and maintain a written consent
and power of attorney appointing an agent in the United States for service of process. This consent

97

and power of attorney must be signed by the nonresident SBS Entity and the named agent for
service of process. In addition, Rule 15Fb2-4 requires that each nonresident SBS Entity obtain an
opinion of counsel stating that it can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission with access to
records and the ability to conduct onsite examinations. Such an opinion of counsel must be attached
to the SBS Entity’s filed application (Form SBSE, SBSE-A, or SBSE-BD, as appropriate) as a
required document. An SBS Entity must also re-certify on Schedule F of such Forms within 90days after any changes in the legal or regulatory framework that would impact the SBS Entity’s
ability to provide, or manner in which it provides, the Commission with prompt access to its books
and records or that impacts the Commission’s ability to inspect and examine the SBS Entity. The
SBS Entity’s re-certification must be accompanied by a revised opinion of counsel regarding the
new regulatory regime. These entities also must file an additional schedule (Schedule F) with their
application form to identify the firm’s U.S. agent for service of process and to certify that the firm
can, as a matter of law, and will provide the Commission with access to its books and records and
submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission. Further, such entities must
communicate promptly to the Commission through an amendment to Schedule F any change of
agent for service of process or any change of name or address of an agent for service of process. In
addition, each nonresident SBS Entity must maintain its written agreement appointing a U.S. agent
for service of process until at least three years after the agreement is terminated.
Pursuant to Rule 15Fb1-1, each signatory to an electronic filing must, when the electronic
filing is made, manually sign a signature page or other document adopting his or her signature that
appears in typed form within the electronic filing. The SBS Entity must retain the manually-signed
page until at least three years after the form or certification has been replaced or is no longer
effective.

98

Rule 15Fb3-2 requires that an SBS Entity seeking to withdraw from Commission
registration file Form SBSE-W, and Form SBSE-W requires SBS Entities to provide specified
information to withdraw from registration.
Rule 15Fb2-5 provides, in paragraph (a), that an SBS Entity succeeding to and continuing
the business of a registered SBS Entity shall be deemed to remain effective under the registration of
the predecessor as long as the successor files an application, within 30 days of the succession, in
accordance with Rule 15Fb2-1 and the retiring entity files a notice of withdrawal on Form SBSEW. Paragraph (b) of 15Fb2-5 provides that for certain types of changes that are more ministerial in
nature, a person succeeding to and continuing the business of a registered SBS Entity shall be
deemed to remain effective under the registration of the predecessor as long as the successor, within
30 days, amends its application on the appropriate Form. As this rule simply allows the successor
to continue the operations of the registered SBS Entity, and the form filing and amendment
requirements are contained in Rule 15Fb2-1, 15Fb2-3, and 15Fb3-2, any paperwork burdens are
included under those rules.
Rule 15Fb2-6 provides that the registration of an SBS Entity shall be deemed to be the
registration of a fiduciary, appointed or qualified by order, judgement or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction, as long as the fiduciary files Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSEBD, as appropriate. As this rule simply allows the successor to continue the operations of the
registered SBS Entity, and the form filing and amendment requirements are contained in Rule
15Fb2-1, any paperwork burdens are included under that rule.
B.

Proposed Use of Information

The Commission will use the information collected pursuant to Rules 15Fb1-1 through
15Fb6-2 and through Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD to determine whether applicants meet

99

the standards for registration, and to fulfill its oversight responsibilities. The Commission will use
the information collected pursuant to Rule 15Fb3-2 and Form SBSE-W to determine whether it is
appropriate to allow an SBS Entity to withdraw from registration and to facilitate that withdrawal.
Information collected pursuant to these rules and forms will be made publicly available.
C.

Respondents

Rule 15Fb1-1 through 15Fb6-2 facilitate registration with the Commission of entities that fit
the definition of “security-based swap dealer” or “major security-based swap participant.” 228 Forms
SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD, as applicable, are applications through which SBS Entities would
register with the Commission.
In the Registration Proposing Release the Commission stated its belief that approximately
fifty entities may fit within the definition of SBS Dealer and up to five entities may fit within the
definition of Major SBS Participant. 229 Further, the Commission estimated that thirty-five of those
registrants would also be engaged in the swaps business and would register with the CFTC as swap
dealers or major swap participants and would be able to register using Form SBSE-A, sixteen of
those registrants would already be registered as broker-dealers and could register using Form SBSEBD, 230 and four of those registrants would not otherwise be registered with the CFTC or the
Commission will seek to become an SBS Entity and would need to register using Form SBSE. 231
We received no comments on these estimates, and continue to believe they are appropriate.

228

See supra, footnotes 1 and 2.

229

Registration Proposing Release, at 65808.

230

Nomura commented that the proposed Forms did not recognize the possibility that OTC
derivatives dealers might seek to register as SBS Entities. As described above in Section
II.G.3., we added a question to Form SBSE-BD to allow OTC derivatives dealers to identify
themselves when filing that form because they have already submitted Form BD.

231

Id.

100

D.

Total Initial and Annual Reporting and Recordkeeping Burdens
1.

Burden Associated with Filing Application Forms

Rule 15Fb2-1 requires that each SBS Entity register with the Commission by filing either
Form SBSE, SBSE-A or SBSE-BD. The Commission designed the application process to provide
alternative forms for SBS Entities that are, or are registering as swap dealers, major swap
participants, or broker-dealers to use to register (Forms SBSE-A and SBSE-BD). Each SBS Entity
is required to complete and file one of these forms.
Form SBSE
While it is likely that the time necessary to complete these forms would vary depending on
the nature and complexity of the entity’s business, we estimated in the Registration Proposing
Release that the average time necessary for an SBS Entity to research the questions, and complete
and file a Form SBSE (including the Schedules 232 and DRPs) would be approximately one work
week or forty hours. 233 In the Cross Border Proposing Release, we increased this hour burden
estimate by two hours to account for the addition of certain questions to Form SBSE. 234 While we
have added new Schedule C to Form SBSE, as applicants must have already identified statutorily
disqualified persons in order to provide the certification on Form SBSE-C, we do not believe that
listing statutorily disqualified entity associated persons on Schedule C will measurably increase the
time it will take to complete Form SBSE. As discussed above, the Commission estimates that

232

Except Schedule F, which is dealt with separately below. As discussed in more detail above
in Sections II.B. and II.G.1., Schedule G was moved into Form SBSE-C.

233

Registration Proposing Release, at 65808.

234

Cross Border Proposing Release, at 31104. We received no comments on this estimate, and
continue to believe it is appropriate.

101

approximately four firms would need to register using Form SBSE. Consequently, the total burden
associated with filing Forms SBSE would be approximately 168 hours. 235
Form SBSE-A
We indicated our belief in the Registration Proposing Release that, as Form SBSE-A is
shorter than the Form SBSE, it should take an SBS Entity approximately 80% of the time that it
would take to research, complete, and file a Form SBSE (including the Schedules 236 and DRPs), or
thirty two hours. 237 In the Cross Border Proposing Release, we increased this hour burden estimate
by two hours to account for the addition of certain questions to Form SBSE. 238 As with Form
SBSE, we do not believe that listing statutorily disqualified entity associated persons on Schedule C
will measurably increase the time it will take to complete Form SBSE-A. As discussed above, the
Commission estimates that approximately thirty-five firms would also be registered with the CFTC
and therefore would need to register using Form SBSE-A. Consequently, the total burden
associated with filing Forms SBSE-A would be approximately 1,190 hours. 239
Form SBSE-BD
In the Registration Proposing Release we stated our belief that, as Form SBSE-BD is shorter
than either Form SBSE or Form SBSE-A and broker-dealers who would be filing Form SBSE-BD
are familiar with Commission terminology and forms, researching, completing, and filing a Form
SBSE-BD should take an SBS Entity approximately 25% of the time that it would take to research,

235

(42 hours x 4 SBS Entities) = 168 hours total.

236

See supra footnote 232.

237

Registration Proposing Release, at 65808-9.

238

Cross Border Proposing Release, at 31104. We received no comments on this estimate, and
continue to believe it is appropriate.

239

(34 hours x 35 SBS Entities) = 1,190 hours total.

102

complete, and file a Form SBSE (including the Schedules 240), or ten hours. 241 In the Cross Border
Proposing Release, we increased this hour burden estimate by one half hour to account for the
addition of one new question. 242 As with Form SBSE and Form SBSE-A, we do not believe that
listing statutorily disqualified entity associated persons on Schedule C would measurably increase
the time it will take to complete Form SBSE-BD. As discussed above, the Commission estimates
that approximately sixteen SBS Entities would need to register using Form SBSE-BD.
Consequently, the total burden associated with filing Forms SBSE-BD would be approximately 168
hours. 243
Form SBSE-C
As indicated in Section II.G.4. above, we are adopting Form SBSE-C with some
modifications. As discussed in Section II.A.1.ii., we have modified the text of the Senior Officer
Certification to instead require that a senior officer certify that after due inquiry, he or she has
reasonably determined that the applicant has developed and implemented written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of federal securities laws, the rules thereunder
and has documented the process by which he or she reached such determination. 244 As discussed in
Sections II.B. and II.G.4. above, we have also moved the CCO Certification Regarding Associated
Persons, which had been included as Schedule G to Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD, into
Form SBSE-C.

240

See supra footnote 232

241

Registration Proposing Release, at 65809.

242

Cross Border Proposing Release, at 31104. We received no comments on this estimate, and
continue to believe it is appropriate.

243

(10½ hours x 16 SBS Entities) = 168 hours total.

244

See Form SBSE-C.

103

The Commission has previously estimated that it would take a senior officer approximately
twenty hours to review, document, and update compliance procedures, 245 which the staff believes
would be analogous to reviewing an SBS Entity’s written policies and procedures and or taking
whatever other actions he or she deems necessary to gain comfort to sign the Senior Officer
Certification. In the Registration Proposing Release, we stated our belief that the burden associated
with having a senior officer sign a certification likely would be approximately five hours. 246
Consequently, the total burden associated with having a senior officer review an SBS Entity’s
written policies and procedures and or taking whatever other actions he or she deems necessary to
gain comfort necessary to sign the Senior Officer Certification and to then sign the certification on
Form SBSE-C would be approximately 1,375 hours for all entities. 247
The Commission proposed, in the Business Conduct Standards Proposing Release, to require
that each SBS Entity establish, maintain, enforce and promptly update written policies and
procedures addressing the supervision of the types of security-based swap business in which the
SBS Entity is engaged that are reasonably designed to achieve compliance with applicable securities
laws and the rules and regulations thereunder. 248 That rulemaking accounted for the burden
associated with establishing written procedures.
As discussed in more detail below in Section IV.D.3. regarding Associated Persons, the
Commission estimated in the Registration Proposing Release that it would take a CCO
approximately one hour to certify on Schedule G that no associated person that effects or is
245

See, e.g., Risk Management Controls for Brokers or Dealers With Market Access, Exchange
Act Release No. 63241 (Nov. 3, 2010), 75 FR 69792, at 69816 (Nov. 15, 2010).

246

Registration Proposing Release, at 65809. We received no comments on this estimate, and
continue to believe it is appropriate.

247

(5 hours + 20 hours) x 55 SBS Entities = 1,375 hours total.

248

See supra, footnote 30.

104

involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the SBS Entity is subject to a statutory
disqualification. 249 While we received no comments on this estimate of the time it would take for
the CCO to certify, we did receive one comment alleging that our estimates as to the number of
associated persons was too low and failed to include associated persons that were not natural
persons. Our prior estimate was based on the assumption that the CCO would already have the
knowledge necessary to sign the certification because he or she (or his or her designee) would have
reviewed and signed each associated persons’ employment applications or questionnaires and
conducted background checks on those persons. To the extent this certification requires a CCO to
also consider whether associated persons that are not natural persons are subject to statutory
disqualification, and the CCO (or his or her designee) would not have already reviewed employment
questionnaires or applications or conducted background checks on those persons, we modified our
original estimate to accommodate such a review.
As discussed in more detail below in Section IV.D.3., we now estimate that each SBS Entity
may have, on average 10 associated persons that are not natural persons effecting or involved in
effecting security-based swaps on their behalf. Further, we believe it would likely take, on average,
approximately five hours for a CCO to collect information from its legal or other internal
departments or its holding company to determine whether each of its associated persons that is not a
natural person is subject to statutory disqualification. Thus, we estimate that it would take a CCO
approximately 50 hours to obtain sufficient information that none of its associated persons is subject
to statutory disqualification to gain sufficient comfort that none of these associated persons that
effect or are involved in effecting security-based swaps are subject to statutory disqualification to
allow them to sign the certification. As a result of this change, the Commission staff now estimates
249

Registration Proposing Release, at 65811.

105

that the total burden to all SBS Entities to complete the CCO Certification Regarding Associated
Persons on Form SBSE-C would be approximately 2,805 hours. 250
Consequently, the total burden associated with filing Form SBSE-C, which now includes
both of these certification, would be approximately 4,180 hours. 251
2.

Burden Associated with Amending Application Forms

Rule 15Fb2-3 requires that SBS Entities amend their Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD,
as applicable, if they find that the information contained therein has become inaccurate. While SBS
Entities may need to update their Forms periodically, it likely will not cost a significant amount to
make such changes because each firm will have already completed Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or
Form SBSE-BD, as applicable, and will only need to amend that aspect of the Form that has
become inaccurate. Based on the number of amendments the Commission receives annually on
Form BD, the Commission estimates that each SBS Entity will file approximately three
amendments annually. 252 We estimated, in the Registration Proposing Release, that while it is
likely that the time necessary to file an amendment to Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSEBD, as applicable, may vary depending on the nature and complexity of the information to be
amended, based on experience relative to Form BD, we believed it would take an SBS Entity, on

250

(10 associated persons that are not natural persons x 5 hours to gain comfort that the entity is
not subject to statutory disqualification x 55 SBS Entities) + (1 hour for CCO to sign
certification x 55 SBS Entities) = 2,805 hours.

251

1,375 hours + 2,805 hours = 4,180 hours.

252

On March 1, 2015 there were 4,253 broker-dealers registered with the Commission (based
on Form BD data). The Commission received 15,638, 15,491, 13,271, 12,902, and 14,330
amended Forms BD during the fiscal years ending 9/30/2010, 9/30/2011, 9/30/2012,
9/30/2013 and 9/30/2014, respectively. ((15,638 + 15,491 + 13,271 + 12,902 + 14,330) / 5
years) / 4,253 broker-dealers = 3.4 amendments per broker-dealer per year.

106

average, approximately one hour to amend its application each time it files an amendment. 253
Consequently, the total burden associated with amending Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD, as
applicable, would be approximately 165 hours. 254
3.

Burdens Relating to Associated Persons

As adopted, Rule 15Fb6-2 requires that each SBS Entity must have its CCO certify, on Form
SBSE-C, that the SBS Entity has performed background checks on all of its associated persons who
effect or are involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf, and neither knows, nor in the
exercise of reasonable care should have known, that any associated person who effects or is
involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf is subject to a statutory disqualification,
unless otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation or order. Rule 15Fb6-2, as adopted, also
requires that, to support this certification, the SBS Entity’s CCO (or his or her designee) review and
sign the questionnaire or application obtained in compliance with the applicable recordkeeping rule,
and use it as the basis for a background check of the associated person to verify that the associated
person is not subject to statutory disqualification. Paragraph (b) of Rule 15Fb2-1 also states that the
questionnaire or applications must serve as the basis for a background check of the associated
person to verify that the person is not subject to statutory disqualification. SBS Entities only need
to fulfill this obligation for associated persons that effect or are involved in effecting security-based
swaps on behalf of the SBS Entity. In addition, as adopted, the certification required by Rule
15Fb6-1(a) is only required at the time of registration. As the requirement to review and sign
employment questionnaires and applications is designed to support that certification, Rule 15Fb6253

Registration Proposing Release, at 65809. We received no comments on this estimate, and
continue to believe it is appropriate.

254

1 hour x three per year x 55 SBS Entities = 165 hours. This burden estimate includes the
burden associated with the requirement to amend Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, or SBSE-BD, as
appropriate, before filing Form SBSE-W. See infra, Section IV.D.6.

107

2(b) does not impose ongoing obligations. In the Registration Proposing Release, the Commission
estimated (based on the staff’s experience relative to the securities and OTC derivatives industries)
that SBS Entities each have, on average, twenty-five associated persons that effect or are involved
in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the SBS Entity.
The Commission received a comment on our estimate of the number of associated persons
each SBS Entity may have effect or be involved in effecting security based swaps on its behalf. 255
Specifically, this commenter stated that it believed “the Commission significantly underestimates
the burden the Proposal’s associated person investigation requirement will impose on prospective”
SBS Entities, and that SBS Entities “could have hundreds, if not thousands, of associated natural
persons that will effect or will be involved in effecting security-based swaps” and more if the
definition of “associated person” is read to extend not just to natural persons but also to entities. 256
As stated above in Section II.B, we are limiting the scope of the prohibition so that unless
otherwise ordered by the Commission, when it files an application to register with the Commission
as an SBS Dealer or Major SBS Participant, an SBS Entity may permit a person associated with it
that is not a natural person and that is subject to statutory disqualification to effect or be involved in
effecting security-based swaps on its behalf, provided that the statutory disqualification(s),
described in Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(39)(A) – (F)), occurred prior to the compliance date of this rule. In addition, we clarified in
Rule 15Fb6-2(b) that an SBS Entity’s CCO is only required to review and sign questionnaires and
applications of natural persons, because those are the only types of persons that would generally
submit such a questionnaire or application. Based on the fact that the statutory prohibition is

255

See SIFMA Letter at 7-8.

256

Id.

108

limited to persons who effect or are involved in effecting security-based swaps on an SBS Entity’s
behalf (and not all associated persons), as well as staff experience and observations, we estimate
that each SBS Entity could have approximately ten affected associated persons that are entities.
With respect to associated persons who are natural persons, in light of this comment that we
significantly underestimated the burden the Proposal’s associated person investigation requirement
will impose on prospective” SBS Entities, and that SBS Entities “could have hundreds, if not
thousands, of associated natural persons that will effect or will be involved in effecting securitybased swaps,” the Commission has reviewed its estimates. While not exactly analogous in this
situation to SBS Dealers, 257 we reviewed available data regarding the number of persons associated
with broker-dealers. As of December 31, 2014 there were 447 clearing broker-dealers 258 which, on
average, each employed 423 persons who were registered. 259 Consequently, we now estimate that

257

Security-based swap dealers will be limited to sales of security-based swaps, whereas
broker-dealers are generally engaged in the sale of a broader range of financial instruments.
Thus, it is likely that fewer people would be needed to facilitate this business.

258

This information was drawn from FOCUS Report filings submitted by broker-dealers as of
December 31, 2014. While there are far more broker-dealers registered with the
Commission, we believe clearing broker-dealers are more analogous to SBS Dealers. Many
introducing broker-dealers are quite small, and focus their business on particular types of
instruments (e.g., mutual funds or limited partnership shares). Clearing broker-dealers
extend margin, hold customer collateral, and engage in a range of activities that we believe
SBS Entities would perform as part of their business. However, clearing broker-dealers also
generally service a large number of customer accounts, which likely would differ from the
security-based swap business. We believe that SBS Entities likely would effect transactions
with a more limited number of investors and counterparties and, thus, would generally
employ fewer associated persons.

259

In estimating the number of associated persons that effect or are involved in effecting
security-based swaps on behalf of SBS Dealers, we believe that it is more appropriate to use
the number of registered persons of broker-dealers rather than the number of persons
associated with a broker-dealer. In the brokerage business, persons who are engaged in the
securities business of a broker-dealer must register, while associated persons of a brokerdealers include individuals performing a broader range of functions, including those that
may do require registration. Exchange Act Section 15Fb(6) and Rule 15Fb6-2 capture only
associated persons who effect or are involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of
109

each SBS Dealer will have 423 associated persons that are natural persons that effect or are
involved in effecting security-based swaps on their behalf. 260 Since Major SBS Participant
registration requirements are triggered by position thresholds (as opposed to activity and volume
thresholds for dealer registration), 261 we anticipate that entities which may seek to register with the
Commission as Major SBS Participants are more likely to resemble hedge funds and investment
advisors. To estimate the number of natural persons associated with Major SBS Participants, we
used regulatory filings by registered investment advisers on Form ADV. Based on this analysis, as
of January 2, 2015 there were 11,506 registered investment advisers which each had on average 63
employees. Using this average as the basis, we thus estimate that each Major SBS Participant will
have 63 associated persons that are natural persons that effect or are involved in effecting securitybased swaps on their behalf.
The Registration Proposing Release estimated that it would take a CCO (or the CCO’s
designee) approximately one hour to review and sign a relevant employee’s employment record to
determine that associated persons who effect or are involved in effecting security-based swaps on
their behalf are not subject to statutory disqualification. 262 If the SBS Entity has not already
performed a background check of the employee, we estimate that it may take the CCO (or the

SBS Entities, not all associated persons of an SBS Entity. We believe that the type of
activities captured by this category of associated persons is more akin to the types of
activities performed by persons that engage in the securities business of a broker-dealer, and
thus must register, than to associated persons of a broker-dealer in general.
260

We recognize that SBS Entities will be limited to sales of security-based swaps, whereas
broker-dealers are generally engaged in the sale of a broader range of financial instruments;
thus less staff may be needed to facilitate this business.

261

See Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, at 30748.

262

Registration Proposing Release, at 65810. We received no comments on this estimate, and
continue to believe it is appropriate.

110

CCO’s designee) an additional hour to conduct whatever additional review may be necessary. 263
Consequently, the Commission estimates that the burden for each SBS Dealer that is registered or
registering with the Commission or the CFTC would be 423, 264 and the burden for each other SBS
Dealer would be 846. 265 We have no basis to determine whether Major SBS Participants would
already be registered or registering with the Commission or the CFTC, but we assume that all five
will be dually-registered. Thus, the burden for each Major SBS Participant would be approximately
63. 266 We therefore estimate that the total burden to all SBS Entities to have their CCOs (or
designees) review and sign the employment application or questionnaire for each associated person
who is a natural person and who effects or is involved in effecting security-based swaps on their
behalf and/or conduct whatever review may be necessary to assure that each such associated person
is not subject to statutory disqualification would be approximately 23,157 hours. 267
The Commission believes that signing the required certification will not take a significant
amount of time. In the Registration Proposing Release the Commission estimated that it would take
a CCO approximately one hour to certify on Schedule G that no associated person that effects or is
involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the SBS Entity is subject to a statutory
263

The Commission continues to believe that SBS Entities that are registered with the
Commission or the CFTC must already conduct a review to determine if their associated
persons are statutorily disqualified persons in the CEA and the Exchange Act. See 15
U.S.C. 78f(c)(2), 78o-3(g)(2), and 78q(f)(2), and 7 U.S.C. 6k(5) and 12a(1).

264

423 associated persons x 1 hour = 423.

265

423 associated persons x 2 hours = 846.

266

63 associated persons x 1 hour = 63.

267

((One hour x 423 associated persons that are natural persons x (30 SBS Dealers that are
registered or registering with the CFTC + 16 SBS Dealers that are registered or registering
with the Commission as broker-dealers)) = 19,458 hours for SBS Dealers already registered
or registering with the Commission or CFTC. (One hour x 63 associated persons x 5 Major
SBS Participants) = 315 hours for Major SBS Participants. (Two hours x 4 SBS Dealers
that are not otherwise registered or registering with the Commission or the CFTC x 423
associated persons) = 3,384 hours. 19,458 hours + 315 hours + 3,384 hours = 23,157.

111

disqualification. 268 This was based on the assumption that the CCO (or his or her designee) had
reviewed and signed the associated persons’ employment applications or questionnaires and
performed background checks on those persons. However, to the extent this certification requires a
CCO to also consider whether associated persons that are not natural persons are subject to statutory
disqualification, and the CCO (or his or her designee) would not have already reviewed
employment questionnaires or applications or conducted background checks on those persons, the
certification may take longer than our original estimate. Based on staff experience and observation,
we believe that SBS Entities would most likely have affiliated entities as associated persons that are
not natural persons. However, to the extent that an SBS Entity has a non-affiliated entity as an
associated person that is not a natural person, it is likely they would have reviewed information on
those associated persons when the relationship was established. Based on staff experience and
industry norms we understand that as part of their existing business practices financial institutions
generally collect information from business partners to gain comfort and reduce risks. 269
Consequently, we believe it would likely take, on average, approximately five hours for a CCO to
collect information from its legal or other internal departments or its holding company to determine
whether each of its associated persons that is not a natural person is subject to statutory
disqualification. Thus, we estimate that it would take a CCO approximately 50 hours to obtain

268

Registration Proposing Release, at 65811. We received no comments on this estimate, and
continue to believe it is appropriate, even with the modification to the certification to add the
phrase “unless otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation or order of the
Commission,” because the modification should not change the burden associated with this
certification requirement.

269

Firms generally collect information to assure that a business partner will be able to perform
activities, provide timely payments, and will not expose it any unknown or unnecessary
risks.

112

sufficient information that none of its associated persons is subject to statutory disqualification 270
and one hour to sign the certification.
We have modified the requirement so that this CCO certification is no longer contained in
Schedule G, but in Form SBSE-C. The Commission staff estimates that the total burden to all SBS
Entities to complete the CCO Certification Regarding Associated Persons on Form SBSE-C would
be approximately 2,805 hours, 271 and we have included these hours above in the burden associated
with Form SBSE-C (see Section IV.D.1.).
To the extent that approximately 35 SBS Entities will also be registered with the CFTC as
swap entities and 16 will also be registered as broker-dealers, the burdens and costs associated with
reviewing associated persons’ backgrounds will likely be significantly less than this because those
firms’ employment applications likely contain the appropriate information and because we are
allowing SBS Entities to rely on background checks performed in those contexts.
4.

Burdens on Nonresident SBS Entities

In the Cross Border Proposing Release, the Commission estimated that approximately 18
entities will be registered foreign SBS Dealers, as defined in proposed Rule 3a71–3(a)(3) or foreign
Major SBS Participants, as defined in proposed Rule 3a67–10(a)(1). Since that time we have come
to believe that 22 nonresident entities will fit the definition of nonresident SBS Dealer or
nonresident Major SBS Participant and will, therefore, need to register with the Commission.272
Rule 15Fb2-4 requires that each nonresident SBS Entity file an additional schedule (Schedule F) as
part of the application they file with the Commission, to identify its U.S. agent for service of
process and to certify that the firm can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission with access to
270

10 associated persons that are not natural persons x 5 hours = 50 hours.

271

51 hours x 55 SBS Entities = 2,805 hours.

272

See Cross-Border Activity Proposing Release, at 27452.

113

its books and records and can, as a matter of law, and will submit to onsite inspection and
examination by the Commission.
In the Registration Proposing Release the Commission estimated that the average time
necessary for a nonresident SBS Entity to complete and file Schedule F would be approximately
one hour. 273 We stated our belief in the Cross Border Proposing Release that adding the new
section to Schedule F could increase the amount of time it would take for an SBS Entity to complete
this form by one-half hour. 274 Thus, the Commission estimates that the total burden for all
nonresident SBS Entities to complete and file Schedule F would be approximately 33 hours. 275
The Commission estimates, based on internet research, 276 that it would cost each nonresident
SBS Entity approximately $179 annually to appoint and maintain a relationship with a U.S. agent
for service of process. Consequently, the total cost for all nonresident SBS Entities to appoint and
maintain relationships with U.S. agents for service of process is approximately $3,938 per year. 277
In addition, nonresident SBS Entities likely will incur outside legal costs associated with
obtaining an opinion of counsel. In the Registration Proposing Release the Commission estimated
273

Registration Proposing Release, at 65811.

274

Cross Border Proposing Release, at 31105. We received no comments on this estimate, and
continue to believe it is appropriate.

275

1½ hours x 22 nonresident SBS Entities = 33 hours.

276

See, e.g., http://www.incorp.com/registered-agent-resident-agent-services.aspx (as of June
23, 2015, $99 per state per year), https://ct.wolterskluwer.com/registered-agentservices?mm_campaign=Enter_Campaign_Code_Here&keyword=registered%20agent&utm_
source=Google&utm_medium=CPC&utm_campaign=RegisteredAgent&jadid=69563123457
&jap=1t3&jk=registered%20agent&jkId=gc:a8a8ae4cd4a6542cf014a97541e8d183e:t1_p:k_r
egistered%20agent:pl_&jp=&js=1&jsid=35672&jt=1 (as of June 23, 2015, $289 per year),
and https://www.ailcorp.com/services/registered-agent (as of June 23, 2015, $149 per year).
The staff sought websites that provided pricing information and a comprehensive description
of their registered agent services. We calculated our estimate by averaging the costs
provided on these three websites – ($99 + $289 + $149) / 3 = $179.

277

$179 per nonresident SBS Entity x 22 nonresident SBS Entities = $3,938.

114

that each nonresident SBS Entity would incur, on average, approximately $25,000 in outside legal
costs to obtain the necessary opinion of counsel. 278 Consequently, we estimate that the total cost for
all nonresident SBS Entities to obtain this opinion of counsel would be approximately $550,000. 279
Nonresident entities must also amend Schedule F to inform the Commission if they replace
their agent for service of process or if information regarding their existing agent for service of
process changes. We do not believe this would occur frequently, and therefore estimate that ten
percent of the nonresidents may need to amend their Schedule F to reflect these types of changes
annually. Consequently, we estimate that the total annual burden for SBS Entities to amend
Schedule F to reflect changes in information regarding their agent for service of process would be 3
hours. 280
An SBS Entity must also re-certify on Schedule F of such Forms within 90-days after any
changes in the legal or regulatory framework that would impact the SBS Entity’s ability to provide,
or manner in which it provides, the Commission with prompt access to its books and records or that
impacts the Commission’s ability to inspect and examine the SBS Entity. The SBS Entity’s recertification must be accompanied by a revised opinion of counsel regarding the new regulatory
regime. We do not believe this would occur frequently, and therefore estimate that one nonresident

278

Registration Proposing Release, at 65811. While a nonresident SBS Entity or its outside
counsel would also need to monitor the foreign jurisdiction’s legal and regulatory
framework so that it can submit a new opinion of counsel and re-certify on Schedule F if the
foreign laws changed, we believe that it is usual and customary for a nonresident SBS Entity
to continually monitor the applicable law and regulations in the jurisdiction in which it
resides, so we don’t believe it would incur any additional paperwork costs to monitor those
regulations for purposes of this rulemaking. We received no comments on this estimate, and
continue to believe it is appropriate.

279

$25,000 x 22 SBS Entities = $550,000.

280

22 nonresident SBS Entities x 10% = approximately 2 SBS Entities. 2 SBS Entities x 1½
hours = 3 hours.

115

entity may need to recertify annually. Thus, the total ongoing burden associated with this
requirement would be approximately 1½ hours and $25,000 annually.
5.

Burden Related to Retention of Manually Signed Signature Pages

Pursuant to Rule 15Fb1-1, each signatory to an electronic filing must, when the electronic
filing is made, manually sign a signature page or other document adopting his or her signature that
appears in typed form within the electronic filing. This manually signed page must be retained by
the SBS Entity until at least three years after the form or certification has been replaced or is no
longer effective. Consequently, each SBS Entity will need to maintain at least three pages with
manually signed signatures (the execution page of Form SBSE, SBSE-A, or SBSE-BD, as
applicable, Schedule C and Schedule G). In addition, nonresident SBS Entities also would need to
retain a manually signed copy of Schedule F. As so few pages would need to be retained, the staff
believes the burden associated with retaining them would not be significant. Thus, the Commission
estimated in the Registration Proposing Release that it would take each SBS Entity approximately
10 minutes annually to assure that these pages are retained. 281 Consequently, it would take
approximately 9 hours annually for all SBS Entities. 282
6.

Burden Associated with Filing Withdrawal Form

As discussed in the Registration Proposing Release, the Commission believes that entities
will not enter and exit this business regularly because the cost and effort to register as an SBS Entity
will be significant. 283 As the Form SBSE-W is only one page and consists of information readily
available to SBS Entities, the Commission estimates (based on experience relative to Form BD-W)
281

Registration Proposing Release, at 65811. We received no comments on this estimate, and
continue to believe it is appropriate.

282

(10 minutes x 55 SBS Entities) / 60 minutes = 9.17 hours.

283

See Registration Proposing Release, at 65811.

116

that it likely would take an SBS Entity, on average, approximately one hour to complete and file a
Form SBSE-W. While the Commission believes it is unlikely that SBS Entities will withdraw from
registration often or within the first year, solely for purposes of this PRA the Commission believes
that one SBS Entity may file Form SBSE-W to withdraw from registration annually and the total
burden associated with completing and filing Form SBSE-W would be approximately one hour each
year. 284 We included these estimates in the Registration Proposing Release and received no
comment on our estimates. Consequently, the estimated paperwork burden for filing Form SBSEW is one hour annually for all SBS Entities. 285
E.

Retention Period of Recordkeeping Requirements

Proposed Rules 15Fb1-1 through 15Fb6-2 and Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, SBSE-BD, and
SBSE-W would require that each respondent retain certain records and information for three years.
F.

Collection of Information is Mandatory

Any collections of information required pursuant to Rules 15Fb1-1 through 15Fb6-2 and
Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD are mandatory to permit the Commission to determine
whether applicants meet the standards for registration, and to fulfill its oversight responsibilities.
The collections of information required pursuant to Rule 15Fb3-2 and Form SBSE-W are
mandatory to allow the Commission to determine whether it is in the public interest to allow an SBS
Entity to withdraw from registration.

284

The burden associated with the requirement to amend Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, or SBSE-BD,
as appropriate before filing Form SBSE-W is included in the burden described with respect
to amending those forms more generally.

285

1 hour x 1 entity per year = 1 hour.

117

G.

Confidentiality

SBS Entity applications on Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, and SBSE-BD (including the Schedules
and DRPs) filed with the Commission as required by Rule 15Fb2-1, will be made public.
All amendments to SBS Entity applications, required by Rule 15Fb2-3, will be made public.
SBS Entities’ Form SBSE-C certifications, required by Rules 15Fb2-1 and 15Fb6-2 and
filed as part of their applications, will be made public.
The review and signature of the CCO (or the CCO’s designee) that is used as the basis for a
background check of the associated person to verify that the associated person is not subject to
statutory disqualification, will be retained by the SBS Entity. To the extent the Commission obtains
copies of these records, they will be kept confidential, subject to applicable law.
SBS Entities’ Schedules F and attached opinions of counsel, required by Rule 15Fb2-4 and
filed with the Commission as part of their applications, will be made public. Written consents and
powers of attorney appointing an agent in the United States for service of process obtained and
maintained for three years after the agreement is terminated to comply with Rule 15Fb2-4 will be
retained by the SBS Entity. To the extent the Commission obtains copies of these records, they will
be kept confidential, subject to applicable law.
Manually signed signature pages or other document adopting signatures that appear in typed
form within electronic filings submitted by SBS Entities that are created are retained by SBS
Entities in accordance with Rule 15Fb1-1. To the extent the Commission obtains copies of these
records, they will be kept confidential, subject to applicable law.
SBS Entities’ Forms SBSE-W, required by Rule 15Fb3-2 and filed with the Commission,
will be made public.

118

V.

Economic Analysis
A.

Introduction and Broad Economic Considerations

As discussed above, consistent with our mandate under Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act, the
Commission is adopting final rules and forms that establish a process by which SBS Entities can
register (and withdraw from registration) with the Commission. This section presents a detailed
analysis of the particular economic effects – including the costs and benefits and the impact on
efficiency, competition, and capital formation – that may result from our final rules.
Section 3(f) of the Exchange Act requires the Commission, when engaging in rulemaking
that requires the Commission to consider or determine whether an action is necessary or
appropriate in the public interest, to consider, in addition to the protection of investors, whether the
action will promote efficiency, competition, and capital formation. Further, section 23(a)(2) of the
Exchange Act requires the Commission, when adopting rules under the Exchange Act, to consider
the impact that any new rule would have on competition and to not adopt any rule that would
impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes
of the Exchange Act.
In the Registration Proposing Release, the Commission solicited comments on all aspects of
the costs and benefits associated with the proposed rules, including any effect the proposed
registration rule may have on efficiency, competition, and capital formation. The Commission has
considered these comments and has modified some of the rules being adopted today from the
proposal in ways designed to reduce the cumulative burden and costs associated with complying
with the registration requirements. Nonetheless, the Commission recognizes – as reflected in the
economic analysis – that the final rules establish new requirements applicable to SBS Entities and
that complying with these requirements will entail significant costs to SBS Entities. In considering

119

the economic consequences of these final rules we have been mindful of the link between various
registration requirements and the scope of the persons that will register as dealers or Major SBS
Participants, as well as the direct costs and indirect costs these rules will impose on market
participants. We have considered the likely costs and benefits of the registration process on
resident and nonresident SBS Entities, security-based swap counterparties, and participants in
reference security markets. As discussed throughout this release, the Commission believes that the
new requirements are necessary and appropriate for SBS Entity registration and for enabling the
Commission’s effective oversight of security-based swap markets. The Commission believes these
final registration rules should result in substantial benefits and will not impose a burden on
competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange
Act.
The final registration rules establish a process that enables resident and nonresident market
participants that meet SBS Entity registration thresholds to register and participate as dealers and
major participants in U.S. security-based swap markets pursuant to Title VII. This section
provides background about the rules being adopted, placing them in the context of Title VII and
identifying broader economic considerations behind the more detailed assessment of the likely
economic effects discussed in the sections that follow. The economic analysis addresses, among
other things, the effects of the final registration rules on both the market participants that are
expected to register with the Commission and face a compliance burden, and on the nonresident
market participants from jurisdictions with strict blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and
other legal barriers that may be legally unable to comply with final SBS Entity registration
requirements concerning access to books and records.

120

The Commission has considered the potential benefits, costs, and effects on competition,
efficiency and capital formation of registration rules as they pertain to resident and nonresident
SBS Entities and other market participants in Sections V.C, V.D and V.E, below. In considering
the costs and benefits of these rules, we are mindful of the various considerations that must be
taken into account in establishing the baseline against which these costs and benefits may be
evaluated. A key consideration is that registration requirements, while integral to the regulatory
requirements that will be imposed on SBS Entities pursuant to Title VII, do not establish the scope
or nature of substantive requirements of the Title VII regulatory regime or their related costs and
benefits. Our economic analysis reflects rules adopted as part of the Intermediary Definitions
Adopting Release, the Cross-Border Adopting Release, Regulation SBSR and SDR Rules and Core
Principles. The economic impact of the final registration rules will occur predominantly through
the application of the substantive requirements outlined in future substantive Title VII rules,
without, as a general matter, altering the nature of those substantive requirements. Although final
registration rules do not define the specific substantive requirements, they may affect which
entities register with the Commission and become subject to the Title VII requirements, which may
influence the overall costs and benefits of particular regulatory requirements, and of the Title VII
regulatory framework as a whole. For example, potential benefits and costs of pending clearing,
business conduct, and capital and margin requirements, may depend on whether and which SBS
Entities are required to and choose to register as SBS Entities and become subject to the Title VII
regime, as opposed to exit the U.S. market and remain outside of the scope of the Title VII
substantive rules. In formulating these rules, we have taken into account their anticipated costs and
benefits to market participants, the incentives of market participants to register, and the ability of
certain market participants to register and continue to participate in U.S. security-based swap

121

markets. Many of the effects of the final registration rules flow not from the registration process
directly, but rather indirectly from establishing a population of registered entities subject to the
Title VII regulatory requirements. If some SBS Entities restructure or lower their security-based
swap market participation in response to final registration rules, the ensuing programmatic costs
and benefits of the Title VII regulatory regime may be impacted. 286
Title VII provides a statutory framework for the OTC derivatives market and divides
authority to regulate that market between the CFTC (which regulates swaps) and the Commission
(which regulates security-based swaps). The Title VII framework requires certain market
participants to register with the Commission as SBS Dealers or Major SBS Participants and
subjects such entities to certain requirements. The economic analysis below considers both the
various required disclosures and certifications in the rules being adopted, and how they compare to
alternatives, such as CFTC swap dealer and major swap participant registration rulemakings. We
have assessed whether certain SBS Entities may have already registered with the CFTC as swap
dealers or major swap participants, and how potential differences in registration requirements may
lead to frictions in single-name CDS and index CDS markets.
The Commission is cognizant of the potential flow from regulations that impact securitybased swap markets into underlying securities markets. End-users may demand security-based
swaps in order to hedge or mitigate credit risk of reference securities. For example, since CDS can
protect bond investors, CDS may reduce fire sale risk, increase liquidity of underlying bonds and
decrease yield spreads. As both CDS and corporate bonds price credit risk of the underlying
reference security, information may flow between the two markets. These channels would indicate

286

As in the Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, we use “programmatic costs and
benefits” to refer to economic costs and benefits that stem from having a population of
registered entities complying with the fully-implemented Title VII regulatory regime.
122

a potential positive spillover effect between transparency, pricing and liquidity in security-based
swap markets, and market quality in bond markets, with implications for firm ability to place debt
and raise external financing necessary for real investments. At the same time, CDS markets are
sometimes more liquid than the underlying bond markets and dominated by large institutional
traders, hence, price discovery and liquidity in the single name CDS market need not necessarily
translate into informational efficiency or liquidity in the underlying bond markets. In formulating
the registration rules being adopted, the Commission has considered the likely effects of
registration-related disclosure requirements, requirements that might preclude certain nonresident
SBS Entities from registering, and the overall registration burden for SBS Entities on securitybased swap and reference security markets.
The final registration rules govern the application process for entities required to register
with the Commission as SBS Entities, as well as withdrawal, cancellation and revocation of
registration, and include certifications relating to policies and procedures addressing compliance,
access to books and records, and statutorily disqualified persons who effect or are involved in
effecting security-based swap transactions. The Commission has sought to accommodate a variety
of expected SBS Entity filers with tailored registration forms designed to minimize the economic
costs of registration for some SBS Entities that are already filing similar information with
regulatory authorities. The final registration rules include registration forms SBSE, SBSE-A for
entities already registered with the CFTC as swap dealers or major swap participants, SBSE-BD
for entities already registered with the Commission as broker dealers, and SBSE-W for withdrawal
from registration.
At the outset, the Commission notes that, where possible, it has attempted to quantify the
costs, benefits, and effects on efficiency, competition, and capital formation expected to result

123

from adopting these rules and forms. In many cases, however, the Commission is unable to
quantify the economic effects because it lacks the information necessary to provide a reasonable
estimate. For example, we lack data on the complexity and variety of current SBS Entity business
structures and activities; the degree of SBS Entity business reliance on associated persons subject
to a statutory disqualification, as well as the location and specificity of expertise of such persons;
the feasibility of potential restructuring through which nonresident SBS Entities may be able to
bring themselves out of the potential reach of foreign blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws
and other legal barriers; profitability of SBS Entity dealing activities at different transaction
volumes; and how other SBS Entities, new entrants, and other market participants, including those
currently not transacting in security-based swap markets, may react to individual registration rules.
To the best of our knowledge, no such data are publicly available and commenters have not
provided data to allow such quantification. Further, the compliance date for registration rules is
the later of six months after publication in the Federal Register of final capital, margin and
segregation rules; the compliance date of final rules establishing recordkeeping and reporting
requirements for SBS Entities; the compliance date of final rules establishing business conduct
requirements under Exchange Act Sections 15F(h) and 15F(k); or the compliance date for final
rules establishing a process for a registered SBS Entity to make an application to the Commission
to allow an associated person who is subject to a statutory disqualification to effect or be involved
in effecting security-based swaps on the SBS Entity’s behalf. Therefore, we cannot quantify how
market participants currently expected to register as SBS Entities may choose to restructure or
cease their U.S. security-based swap market participation in response to the pending substantive
requirements of Title VII, or whether or how many new participants may choose to enter the U.S.
security-based swap market as SBS Entities in order to avail themselves of the greater transparency

124

and counterparty protections stemming from Title VII. Where we cannot quantify, we discuss in
qualitative terms the economic effects, including the costs and benefits, of entity registration.
B.

Baseline

To assess the economic impact of the final rules described in this release, we are using as
our baseline the security-based swap market as it exists at the time of this release, including
applicable rules we have already adopted but excluding rules that we have proposed but not yet
finalized. 287 The analysis includes the statutory and regulatory provisions that currently govern the
security-based swap market pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as rules adopted in the
Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, the Cross-Border Adopting Release, the Regulation
SBSR Adopting Release, and the SDR Rules and Core Principles Adopting Release. 288 Our
understanding of the market is informed by available data on security-based swap transactions,
though we acknowledge the data limit the extent to which we can quantitatively characterize the
market. Because these data do not cover the entire market, we have developed an understanding of
market activity using a sample that includes only certain portions of the market.
1.

Current Security-Based Swap Market

Our analysis of the state of the current security-based swap market is based on data obtained
from the DTCC Derivatives Repository Limited Trade Information Warehouse (“TIW”), especially
data regarding the activity of market participants in the single-name credit-default swap (“CDS”)
market during the period from 2008 to 2014. According to data published by the Bank for

287

We also considered, where appropriate, the impact of rules and technical standards
promulgated by other regulators, such as the CFTC and the European Securities and Markets
Authority, on practices in the security-based swap market.

288

As noted above, we have not yet adopted other substantive requirements of Title VII that
may affect how firms structure their security-based swap business and market practices
more generally.

125

International Settlements (“BIS”), the global notional amount outstanding in equity forwards and
swaps as of December 2014 was $2.50 trillion. The notional amount outstanding in single-name
CDS was approximately $9.04 trillion, in multi-name index CDS was approximately $6.75 trillion,
and in multi-name, non-index CDS was approximately $611 billion. 289 Our analysis in this release
focuses on the data relating to single-name CDS. As we have previously noted, although the
definition of security-based swaps is not limited to single-name CDS, we believe that the singlename CDS data are sufficiently representative of the market and therefore can directly inform the
analysis of the state of the current security-based swap market. 290
We believe that the data underlying our analysis here provide reasonably comprehensive
information regarding single-name CDS transactions and the composition of the single-name CDS
market participants. We note that the data available to us from TIW do not encompass those CDS
transactions that both: (i) do not involve U.S. counterparties; 291 and (ii) are based on non-U.S.

289

See Semi-annual OTC derivatives statistics at December 2014, Table 19, available at
http://www.bis.org/statistics/dt1920a.pdf (accessed July 29, 2015).

290

While other repositories may collect data on transactions in total return swaps on equity and
debt, we do not currently have access to such data for these products (or other products that
are security-based swaps). In the Cross-Border Proposing Release, we explained that we
believed that data related to single-name CDS was reasonable for purposes of this analysis,
as such transactions appear to constitute roughly 82% of the security-based swap market as
measured on a notional basis. See Cross-Border Proposing Release, footnote 1301 at 31120.
No comments disputed these assumptions, and we therefore continue to believe that,
although the BIS data reflect the global OTC derivatives market, and not just the U.S.
market, these ratios are an adequate representation of the U.S. market.
Also consistent with our approach in that release, with the exception of the analysis
regarding the degree of overlap between participation in the single-name CDS market and
the index CDS market (cross-market activity), our analysis below does not include data
regarding index CDS as we do not currently have sufficient information to identify the
relative volumes of index CDS that are swaps or security-based swaps.

291

We note that DTCC-TIW’s entity domicile determinations may not reflect our definition of
“U.S. person” in all cases. Our definition of “U.S. person” follows the Cross-Border
Adopting Release, at 47303.

126

reference entities. Notwithstanding this limitation, we believe that the TIW data provide sufficient
information to identify the types of market participants active in the security-based swap market and
the general pattern of dealing within that market. 292
Final registration rules require nonresident SBS Entities to make a certification that they
can, as a matter of law, and will provide the Commission with prompt access to books and records
and submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission. As anticipated in the
Registration Proposing Release and noted by commenters, nonresident SBS Entities in a number of
foreign jurisdictions that have blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers
may be unable to comply with this requirement as it may conflict with the laws in their home
jurisdictions. The following sections discuss common dealing structures, participant domiciles and
market centers, and quantify extensive nonresident SBS Entity participation and cross-border
trading in security-based swap markets as they exist today.
i.

Dealing Structures and Participant Domiciles

Dealers occupy a central role in the security-based swap market and SBS Dealers use a
variety of business models and legal structures to engage in dealing business with counterparties in
jurisdictions all around the world 293. As we noted in the Cross-Border Adopting Release and

292

The challenges we face in estimating measures of current market activity stems, in part,
from the absence of comprehensive reporting requirements for security-based swap market
participants. The Commission has adopted rules regarding trade reporting, data elements,
and public reporting for security-based swaps that are designed to, when fully implemented,
provide us with appropriate measures of market activity. See Regulation SBSR Adopting
Release, at 14699-700.

293

Commission staff analysis of TIW transaction records indicates that approximately 99% of
single-name CDS price-forming transactions in 2014 involved an ISDA-recognized dealer.
“Price-forming transactions” include all new transactions, assignments, modifications to
increase the notional amounts of previously executed transactions, and terminations of
previously executed transactions. Transactions terminated, transactions entered into in
connection with a compression exercise, and expiration of contracts at maturity are not
127

discussed below, both U.S.-based and foreign-based entities use certain dealing structures for a
variety of legal, tax, strategic, and business reasons. 294 Dealers may use a variety of structures in
part to reduce risk and enhance credit protection based on the particular characteristics of each
entity’s business.
Bank and non-bank holding companies may use subsidiaries to deal with counterparties. A
U.S.-based holding company may engage in dealing activity through a foreign subsidiary that faces
both U.S. and foreign counterparties, and foreign dealers may choose to deal with U.S. and foreign
counterparties through U.S. subsidiaries. Similarly, a non-dealer user of security-based swaps may
participate in the market using an agent in its home country or abroad. An investment adviser
located in one jurisdiction may transact in security-based swaps on behalf of beneficial owners that
reside in another.
In some situations, an entity’s performance under security-based swaps may be supported by
a guarantee provided by an affiliate. Such guarantees may take the form of a blanket guarantee of
an affiliate’s performance on all security-based swap contracts, or a guarantee may apply only to a
specified transaction or counterparty. Guarantees may give counterparties to a dealer direct
recourse to the holding company or another affiliate for its dealer-affiliate’s obligations under
security-based swaps for which that dealer-affiliate acts as counterparty.

considered price forming and are therefore excluded, as are replacement trades and all
bookkeeping-related trades. See Cross-Border Proposing Release, footnote 1312 at 31121.
For the purpose of this analysis, the ISDA-recognized dealers are those identified by ISDA
as belonging to the dealer group, including JP Morgan Chase, Morgan Stanley, Bank of
America, Goldman Sachs, Deutsche Bank, Barclays, Citigroup, UBS, Credit Suisse, RBS
Group, BNP Paribas, HSBC, Société Générale, Credit Agricole, Wells Fargo, and Nomura.
See, e.g., http://www2.isda.org/functional-areas/research/surveys/operations-benchmarkingsurveys/.
294

See Cross-Border Adopting Release, at 30976.

128

Figure 1: The percentage of (1) new accounts with a domicile in the United States (referred to
as “US”), (2) new accounts with a domicile outside the United States (referred to below as
“Foreign”), and (3) new accounts outside the United States but managed by a U.S. person,
account of a foreign branch of a U.S. person, and accounts of a foreign subsidiary of a U.S.
person (collectively referred to below as “Foreign Managed by US”). 295 Unique, new accounts
are aggregated each quarter and percentages are computed on a quarterly basis, from
January 2008 through December 2014.

As depicted in Figure 1, the domicile of new accounts participating in the market has shifted
over time. A greater share of accounts entering the market either have a foreign domicile, or have a
foreign domicile while being managed by a U.S. person. The increase in foreign accounts may
reflect an increase in participation by foreign accountholders while the increase in foreign accounts

295

Following publication of the Warehouse Trust Guidance on CDS data access, TIW surveyed
market participants, asking for the physical address associated with each of their accounts
(i.e., where the account is organized as a legal entity). This is designated the registered
office location by TIW. When an account does not report a registered office location, we
have assumed that the settlement country reported by the investment adviser or parent entity
to the fund or account is the place of domicile. This treatment assumes that the registered
office location reflects the place of domicile for the fund or account.

129

managed by U.S. persons may reflect the flexibility with which market participants can restructure
their market participation in response to regulatory intervention, competitive pressures, and other
stimuli. Alternatively, the shifts in new account domicile we observe in Figure 1 may be unrelated
to restructuring or increased foreign participation. For example, changes in the domicile of new
accounts over time may reflect improvements in reporting by market participants to TIW rather than
a change in market participant structure. Additionally, because the data only include accounts that
are domiciled in the United States, transact with U.S.-domiciled counterparties, or transact in singlename CDS with U.S. reference entities, changes in the domicile of new accounts may reflect
increased transaction activity between U.S. and non-U.S. counterparties or increased transactions in
single-name CDS on U.S. reference entities by foreign persons.
ii.

Market Centers

Security-based swap participants currently appear to be active in market centers across the
globe. Participants in the security-based swap market may bear the financial risk of a securitybased swap transaction in a location different from the location where the transaction is arranged,
negotiated, or executed or the location where economic decisions are made by managers on behalf
of beneficial owners. Similarly, a participant in the security-based swap market may be exposed to
counterparty risk from a jurisdiction that is different from the market center or centers in which it
participates. Depending on the U.S. person status of the counterparties and the location of the
activity, security-based swap transactions that occur across borders or within foreign jurisdictions
may trigger U.S. registration requirements and may also be subject to rules in foreign jurisdictions.
The TIW transaction records include, in many cases, information on particular branches
involved in transactions, which may provide limited insight as to where security-based swap

130

activity is actually being carried out. 296 These data indicate branch locations in New York, London,
Tokyo, Hong Kong, Chicago, Sydney, Toronto, Frankfurt, Singapore and the Cayman Islands.
Because transaction records in the TIW data provided to the Commission do not indicate explicitly
the location in which particular transactions were arranged, negotiated or executed, these locations
may not represent the full set of locations in which activities relevant for these proposed rules take
place. Moreover, because we cannot identify the location of transactions within TIW, we are
unable to estimate the general distribution of transaction volume across market centers.
iii.

Current Estimates of Number of SBS Dealers and Major SBS
Participants

In the Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, we estimated, based on an analysis of TIW data,
that out of more than 4,000 entities engaged in single-name CDS activity worldwide in 2013, 170
entities engaged in single-name CDS activity at a sufficiently high level that they would be
expected to incur assessment costs to determine whether they meet the “security-based swap dealer”
definition. 297 Approximately 45 of these entities are non-U.S. persons and are expected to incur
assessment costs as a result of engaging in dealing activity with counterparties that are U.S. persons
or engaging in dealing activity that involves recourse to U.S. persons. 298 Analysis of those data
further indicated that potentially 50 entities may engage in dealing activity that would exceed the de
minimis threshold, and thus ultimately have to register as SBS Dealers. The Commission also
undertook an analysis of the number of security-based swap market participants likely to register as
296

The value of this information is limited in part because some market participants may use
business models that do not involve branches to carry out business in jurisdictions other than
their home jurisdiction. For example, some market participants may use affiliated or
unaffiliated agents to enter into security-based swap transactions in other jurisdictions on
their behalf. The available data currently does not allow us to identify with certainty which
type of structure is being used in any particular transaction.

297

See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, at 14693.

298

See Exchange Act Rule 3a71-3(b).

131

major security-based swap participants, and estimated a range of between zero and five such
participants. 299
As we noted in the Cross-Border Dealing Activity Proposing Release, updated analysis of
2014 data leaves many of these estimates largely unchanged. 300 We estimate that approximately
170 entities engaged in single-name CDS activity at a sufficiently high level that they would be
expected to incur assessment costs to determine whether they meet the “security-based swap dealer”
definition. Approximately 56 of these entities are non-U.S. persons. Of the approximately 50
entities that we estimate may potentially register as SBS Dealers, we believe it is reasonable to
expect 22 to be non-U.S. persons. 301
In addition, in the proposed registration requirements for SBS Dealers and Major SBS
Participants, we estimated, based on our experience and understanding of the swap and securitybased swap markets that of the 55 firms that might register as SBS Dealers or Major SBS
Participants, approximately 35 would also register with the CFTC as swap dealers or major swap
participants. 302 Available data suggest that these numbers remain largely unchanged. 303 Finally,

299

See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release 14693. Also See Cross-Border Adopting Release,
footnotes 150 and 153 at 47296 and 47297 (describing the methodology employed by the
Commission to estimate the number of potential SBS Dealers and Major SBS Participants).

300

See Cross Border Dealing Activity Proposing Release, at 27452

301

These estimates are based on the number of accounts in DTCC-TIW data with total notional
volume in excess of de minimis thresholds, increased by a factor of two, to account for any
potential growth in the security-based swap market, to account for the fact that we are
limited in observing transaction records for activity between non-U.S. persons that reference
U.S. underliers, and to account for the fact that we do not observe security-based swap
transactions other than in single name CDS. See Cross Border Dealing Activity Proposing
Release, 80 FR at 27452. Also see Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release, foonote 1457
at 30725.

302

See Registration Proposing Release, at 65808.

303

Based on our analysis of 2014 DTCC-TIW data and the list of swap dealers provisionallyregistered with the CFTC, and applying the methodology used in the Intermediary
132

based on our analysis of TIW data and supervisory filings, we estimate that sixteen market
participants expected to register as SBS Entities have already registered with the Commission as
broker-dealers. In sum, based on our analysis of TIW data and the current population of registered
broker-dealers, swap dealers, and OTC derivative dealers, we anticipate that up to four entities
seeking to register with the Commission as SBS Entities will not have already registered as brokerdealers or as swap dealers.
2.

Levels of Security-Based Swap Trading Activity

Below we describe the levels of security-based swap trading activity and its concentration
among SBS Dealers and Major SBS Participants. Since registration rules may affect resident and
nonresident SBS Entities differently, we further discuss domicile issues and participant structures
operating across jurisdictions in security-based swap markets as they exist today.
Single-name CDS contracts make up the vast majority of security-based swap products and
most are written on corporate issuers, corporate securities, sovereign countries, or sovereign debt
(reference entities and securities). Figure 2 below describes the percentage of global, notional
transaction volume in North American corporate single-name CDS reported to the TIW between
January 2008 and December 2014, separated by whether transactions are between two ISDArecognized dealers (inter-dealer transactions) or whether a transaction has at least one non-dealer
counterparty.
Annual trading activity with respect to North American corporate single-name CDS in terms
of notional volume has declined from more than $6 trillion in 2008 to less than $3 trillion in

Definitions Adopting Release, we estimate that substantially all registered security-based
swap dealers would also register as swap dealers with the CFTC. See Cross Border Dealing
Activity Proposing Release, at 27458. See also CFTC list of provisionally registered swap
dealers, available at http://www.cftc.gov/LawRegulation/DoddFrankAct/registerswapdealer.

133

2014. 304 While notional volume has declined over the past six years, the portion of the notional
volume represented by inter-dealer transactions has remained fairly constant and inter-dealer
transactions continue to represent a significant majority of trading activity, whether measured in
terms of notional value or number of transactions (see Figure 2).
The high level of inter-dealer trading activity reflects the central position of a small number
of dealers, each of which intermediates trades between many hundreds of counterparties. While the
Commission is unable to quantify the current level of trading costs for single-name CDS, dealers
appear to enjoy market power as a result of their small number and the large proportion of order
flow they privately observe. This market power in turn appears to be a key determinant of trading
costs in this market.

304

The start of this decline predates the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act and the proposal of
rules thereunder, which is important to note for the purpose of understanding the economic
baseline for this rulemaking.
134

Figure 2: Global, notional trading volume in North American corporate single-name CDS by
calendar year and the fraction of volume that is inter-dealer.

Global Volume North American Corporate SingleName CDS
90%

7

80%

6

70%

Gross Notional
Trillions

5

60%

4

50%

3

40%
30%

2

20%
1

10%

0

0%
2008

2009

2010

Interdealer

2011
End User

2012

2013

2014

% Interdealer

Against this backdrop of declining North American corporate single-name CDS activity,
about half of the trading activity in North American corporate single-name CDS reflected in the set
of data we analyzed was between counterparties domiciled in the United States and counterparties
domiciled abroad. Basing counterparty domicile on the self-reported registered office location of
the TIW accounts, the Commission estimates that only 12 percent of the global transaction volume
by notional volume between 2008 and 2014 was between two U.S.-domiciled counterparties,
compared to 48 percent entered into between one U.S.-domiciled counterparty and a foreign-

135

domiciled counterparty and 40 percent entered into between two foreign-domiciled counterparties
(see Figure 3). 305
When the domicile of TIW accounts is instead defined according to the domicile of an
account holder’s ultimate parents, headquarters, or home offices (e.g., classifying a foreign bank
branch or foreign subsidiary of a U.S. entity as domiciled in the United States), the fraction of
transactions entered into between two U.S.-domiciled counterparties increases to 32 percent, and to
51 percent for transactions entered into between a U.S.-domiciled counterparty and a foreigndomiciled counterparty.
Differences in classifications across different definitions of domicile illustrate the effect of
participant structures that operate across jurisdictions. Notably, the proportion of activity between
two foreign-domiciled counterparties drops from 40 percent to 17 percent when domicile is defined
as the ultimate parent’s domicile. As noted earlier, foreign subsidiaries of U.S. parent companies
and foreign branches of U.S. banks, and U.S. subsidiaries of foreign parent companies and U.S.
branches of foreign banks may transact with U.S. and foreign counterparties. However, this change
in respective shares based on different classifications suggests that the activity of foreign
subsidiaries of U.S. firms and foreign branches of U.S. banks is generally higher than the activity of
U.S. subsidiaries of foreign firms and U.S. branches of foreign banks.

305

For purposes of this discussion, we have assumed that the registered office location reflects
the place of domicile for the fund or account, but we note that this domicile does not
necessarily correspond to the location of an entity’s sales or trading desk. See Cross Border
Dealing Activity Proposing Release, footnote 44, at 27451

136

Figure 3: The fraction of notional volume in North American corporate single-name CDS
between (1) two U.S.-domiciled accounts, (2) one U.S.-domiciled account and one non-U.S.domiciled account, and (3) two non-U.S.-domiciled accounts, computed from January 2008
through December 2014.

Non-dealer participants remain active in the single name CDS market. Based on our analysis
of DTCC-TIW data on single name CDS positions as of the end of 2014, the total notional
outstanding of non-dealer accounts was approximately $1.3 trillion. There were three market
participants with total notional outstanding of over $50 billion, 16 market participants with total
notional between $10 billion and $50 billion, 144 market participants with total notional between $1
billion and $10 billion and 748 participants with total notional outstanding in single name CDS
under $1 billion.
3.

Cross-Market Participation

As noted in the Cross-Border Dealing Activity Proposing Release, persons registered as SBS
Dealers or Major SBS Participants are likely also to engage in swap activity, which is subject to

137

regulation by the CFTC. 306 Indeed, as we discuss above, we estimate that of the 55 firms that might
register as SBS Dealers or Major SBS Participants, approximately 35 will also register with the
CFTC as swap dealers or major swap participants.
This overlap reflects the relationship between single-name CDS contracts, which are
security-based swaps, and index CDS contracts, which may be swaps or security-based swaps. A
single-name CDS contract covers default events for a single reference entity or reference security.
Index CDS contracts and related products make payouts that are contingent on the default of index
components and allow participants in these instruments to gain exposure to the credit risk of the
basket of reference entities that comprise the index, which is a function of the credit risk of the
index components. A default event for a reference entity that is an index component will result in
payoffs on both single-name CDS written on the reference entity and index CDS written on indices
that contain the reference entity. Because of this relationship between the payoffs of single-name
CDS and index CDS products, prices of these products depend upon one another, 307 creating
hedging opportunities across these markets.
These hedging opportunities mean that participants that are active in one market are likely to
be active in the other. Commission staff analysis of approximately 4,500 TIW accounts that
participated in the market for single-name CDS in 2014 revealed that approximately 2,500 of those
accounts, or 56 percent, also participated in the market for index CDS. Of the accounts that
participated in both markets, data regarding transactions in 2014 suggest that, conditional on an
account transacting in notional volume of index CDS in the top third of accounts, the probability of
306

See Cross Border Dealing Activity Proposing Release, at 27458.

307

“Correlation” typically refers to linear relationships between variables; “dependence”
captures a broader set of relationships that may be more appropriate for certain swaps and
security-based swaps. See, e.g., Casella, George and Roger L. Berger, “Statistical
Inference” (2002), at 171.

138

the same account landing in the top third of accounts in terms of single-name CDS notional volume
is approximately 60 percent; by contrast, the probability of the same account landing in the bottom
third of accounts in terms of single-name CDS notional volume is only 11 percent.
Activity in security-based swap markets can impact underlying securities markets. Securitybased swaps may be used in order to hedge or speculate on credit risk of reference securities. For
instance, prices of both CDS and corporate bonds are sensitive to the credit risk of underlying
reference securities and, therefore, trading across markets may sometimes result in a potential
positive spillover effect between informational efficiency, pricing and liquidity in security-based
swap markets, and market quality in bond markets. At the same time, if some large institutional
traders prefer to transact on their credit risk information in more liquid markets in order to minimize
price impact and improve execution quality, price discovery and liquidity in the single name CDS
market may draw out these sophisticated investors and lead to a drying up of liquidity in the
underlying bond markets. 308

308

Empirical evidence on the direction and significance of the CDS-bond market spillover is
mixed. Massa and Zhang (2012) consider whether the presence of CDS improves pricing
and liquidity of investment grade bonds in 2001-2009. They find a positive effect, strongest
during the financial crisis period, and document a dampened effect of shocks on bond
liquidity and spreads for bonds with CDS contracts. Das et al. (2014) consider the effects of
CDS trading on the efficiency, pricing error and liquidity of corporate bond markets. They
find that efficiency in corporate bond markets has not improved after the introduction of
CDS trading and find no evidence of increases in market quality or bond liquidity.
Boehmer, Chava and Tookes (2015) find the emergence of CDS has adversely affected
equity market quality. Firms with traded CDS contracts on their debt experience
significantly lower liquidity and price efficiency when these firms are closer to default and
in times of high market volatility.
See Massa & L. Zhang, CDS and the Liquidity Provision in the Bond Market (INSEAD
Working Paper No. 2012/114/FIN, 2012), available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2164675; M. Oehmke & A.
Zawadowski, The Anatomy of the CDS Market (Working Paper, 2014), available at
http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=2023108; S. Das, M. Kalimipalli & S.
Nayak, Did CDS Trading Improve the Market for Corporate Bonds?, 111 J. Fin. Econ. 495
139

Because of this link between security-based swaps and their underlying reference securities,
registration rules are expected to affect not only SBS Entities and their counterparties, but also
investors in underlying reference security markets. In the sections that follow we discuss and,
wherever possible, quantify the potential costs and benefits of registration for affected parties.
4.

Statutory Disqualification

The final registration rules require SBS Entities to certify that no associated person that
effects or is involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the SBS Entity is subject to
statutory disqualification. The rule implements Exchange Act 15F(b)(6) that makes it unlawful for
SBS Entities to permit associated persons subject to statutory disqualification to effect or be
involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of SBS Entities, except to the extent otherwise
specifically provided by rule, regulation, or order of the Commission. The Commission has
provided temporary relief from the Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6) prohibition for persons who
were associated with an SBS Entity as of July 16, 2011; this temporary exception expires on the
effective date of adopted SBS Entity registration rules. 309
Thus, there are currently no registered SBS Entities required to comply with the either the
statutory disqualification certifications in the final registration rules, or the prohibition in Exchange
Act Section 15F(b)(6) on associated statutorily disqualified persons effecting or involved in
effecting security-based swaps on behalf of SBS Entities. Therefore, the appropriate baseline
reflects the state of the world with relief from the general prohibition on disqualified associated
persons effecting or being involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of SBS Entities.

(2014); H. Tookes, E. Boehmer & S. Chava, Related Securities and Equity Market Quality:
The Cases of CDS, forthcoming, J. Fin. & Quant. Analysis.
309

See Effective Date Release, at 36301-02.

140

In evaluating the economic effects of final registration rules, we are mindful of the fact that
due to the temporary relief currently in place, entities that are expected to register with the
Commission as SBS Entities may not have restructured their business to be in compliance with the
statutory prohibition in Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6) and may currently be associating with
disqualified persons for the purposes of effecting security-based swaps. Since the CFTC’s approach
excepts associated entities from the scope of the disqualification requirement, SBS Entities that
have cross-registered as swap entities may be continuing to associate with disqualified persons that
are entities, but may have reassigned their current employees, hired new employees or secured
natural person waivers from the NFA.
C.

Benefits of Registration

The economic benefits of entity registration stem from two sources: (1) the direct benefits
of registration, such as requirements to provide information regarding disciplinary history and
Senior Officer Certifications; and (2) the benefits that flow from having a population of registered
participants complying with the Title VII regulatory framework for SBS Entities.
1.

Direct Benefits

The certifications and other requirements contained in the final registration rules may enable
the Commission to more effectively oversee security-based swap markets. The Senior Officer
Certification requirement helps ensure that the CCO considers whether an SBS Entity has
developed and implemented written policies and procedures that would be reasonably designed to
prevent violations of federal securities laws and rules thereunder. Information about SBS Entities
and their control affiliates, including disciplinary history, may facilitate ongoing Commission risk
assessments and oversight of SBS markets, as well as help market participants make more informed
counterparty choices. Associated person certifications help ensure associated persons subject to a
statutory disqualification, who may pose a risk to participants, are precluded from effecting or being
141

involved in effecting security-based swap transactions on behalf of SBS Entities absent a
Commission rule, regulation or order. The books and records certification helps to ensure the
Commission will have access to records and data of nonresident SBS Entities to facilitate ongoing
risk assessments and market surveillance, and that, like resident SBS Entities, all nonresident SBS
Entities are able to be subject to Commission inspections and examinations as part of its regulatory
oversight of SBS Entities.
i.

Disciplinary History and Other Information

Final registration rules require SBS Entities to submit to the Commission information about
their business, including business description, registration status with other regulators and
disciplinary histories, including those of control affiliates, with the information subsequently being
made public by the Commission. Although much of the information required by registration forms
is already publicly available for entities that are registered with the Commission as broker-dealers
or with the CFTC as swap dealers, entities that are not cross-registered will make some of this
information – for instance, disciplinary history of control affiliates – publicly available for the first
time. All new entrants that are not cross-registered would have to provide this information as well,
including as it pertains to their control affiliates. Further, SBS Entities seeking to avail themselves
of the relief for associated entity disqualifications that precede the compliance date of final
registration rules, will have to provide a list of disqualified associated entities which will be made
public by the Commission as part of the registration application. The Commission believes these
requirements may facilitate ongoing oversight of SBS Entities and may help market participants
make more informed counterparty decisions.

142

Informational asymmetry can negatively affect market participation and decrease the
amount of trading—a problem commonly known as adverse selection. 310 For example, when
information about the quality of a counterparty is scarce, market participants may be less willing to
enter into transactions and the overall level of trading may fall. To the extent that adverse selection
costs are present in security-based swap markets, market participants may become more informed
and may increase their activity in security-based swaps, which may improve market quality.
To the extent that SBS market participants consider disciplinary history important in
selecting security-based swap market counterparties, this registration requirement may help market
participants make more informed counterparty choices. This requirement may also reduce
counterparty selection of SBS Entities that have been the subject of disciplinary actions. Moreover,
SBS Entities, knowing that disciplinary history must now be disclosed, may have further incentives
to avoid engaging in misconduct (or may exit the market). The increased dissemination of
information regarding disciplinary history may lead to improved quality-based competition among
SBS Entities to the extent that market participants rely on this information in the selection process.
Additionally, disciplinary history information on SBS Entities and their control affiliates may
inform ongoing Commission oversight, risk assessments, and examination priorities.
ii.

Statutory Disqualification

As discussed in section V.B., SBS Entities may currently be permitting disqualified persons
to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps. Associated person certifications are
designed to help ensure that associated persons subject to a statutory disqualification, who may pose
a risk to counterparties and the integrity of security-based swap markets as a whole, are precluded

310

George A. Akerlof, The Market For “Lemons”: Quality Uncertainty and the Market
Mechanism, 84 Q.J. Econ. 488 (1970).

143

from effecting or being involved in effecting security-based swap transactions on behalf of SBS
Entities absent a Commission rule, regulation or order. The associated person requirement may
offer a degree of counterparty protection, which may differ for natural persons and entities, and
induce market participants to increase their transaction volume or enter the market for the first time.
The Commission has received comment urging a narrower definition of associated persons
to include only natural persons, consistent with the CFTC’s approach, arguing that “business
disruptions and other ramifications stemming from an entire entity being statutorily disqualified
from effecting or being involved in effecting security-based swaps could be considerable.” 311
Based on an analysis of DTCC-TIW and Form BD data, approximately three quarters of entities
that are likely to trigger registration thresholds based on their dealing activity in single name CDS
accounting for approximately 86% of overall U.S. CDS dealing activity in 2014 may be associating
with a statutorily disqualified entity. Crucially, however, the general statutory prohibition and the
requirements of final registration rules apply not to all associated entities, but only to those entities
effecting or involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of SBS Entities. In addition, SBS
Entities currently intermediating security-based swaps are frequently part of complex organizational
structures, which may include hundreds of entities. While we estimate that approximately three
quarters of potential registrants may be associating with a statutorily disqualified entity, the
Commission lacks data or other information indicating whether associated disqualified entities are
effecting or involved in effecting security-based swaps on their behalf. We are, therefore, unable to
determine whether and which SBS Entities may be affected by the final registration rule
implementing the general statutory prohibition. However, taking into account commenter concerns,
final rules allow SBS Entities to permit disqualified associated entity persons associated with them
311

See SIFMA letter at 8.

144

when they file applications to register with the Commission to effect or be involved in effecting
security-based swaps on their behalf if the statutory disqualification(s) occurred prior to the
compliance date of final registration rules. This aspect of the final rules benefits primarily those
SBS Entities that associate with disqualified entities for their security-based swap dealing and
would have had to incur costs of discontinuing current associations with disqualified entities and
associating with different non-disqualified entities for the purposes of security-based swap
transactions. This treatment of associated persons seeks to reduce potential costs for SBS Entities.
The Commission recognizes that this exception may reduce potential counterparty benefits
of a general prohibition on disqualified persons effecting or being involved in effecting securitybased swaps on behalf of SBS Entities. We note that final rules require SBS Entities to provide a
list of associated entities subject to statutory disqualification seeking to avail themselves of this
relief, which will facilitate ongoing Commission supervision of SBS Entities, including as it
pertains to disqualified entities. We also note that currently inter-dealer transactions account for
over 60% of single-name CDS transactions, which reflects the central position of a small number of
dealers, each of which may intermediate trades between many hundreds of counterparties. As a
practical matter, SBS Entities may be able to easily reassign or disassociate from disqualified
natural persons, whereas disassociating from disqualified entity persons may require significant
business restructuring by SBS Entities. In light of the above considerations and of the central
position of SBS Entities in security–based swap markets, this provision considers counterparty
protections of the general prohibition and the risk of market disruptions .
iii.

Senior Officer Certification and Nonresident Entity Certification

The Senior Officer Certification and Nonresident Entity Certification requirements facilitate
the Commission’s ongoing oversight of resident and nonresident SBS Entities. The Senior Officer
Certification requires senior officers to certify that SBS Entities have developed and implemented
145

written policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violations of federal securities laws
and rules thereunder. While the substantive requirement to develop and implement policies and
procedures stems from pending business conduct rules, the certification ensures senior officers have
reviewed the SBS Entity’s policies and procedures, which may facilitate Commission oversight of
SBS Entities.
Further, to effectively fulfill its regulatory oversight responsibilities with respect to
nonresident SBS Entities registered with it, the Commission must have access to those entities’
records and the ability to examine them. The required certification and opinion of counsel
regarding the nonresident SBS Entity’s ability to provide prompt access to books and records and to
be subject to onsite inspection and examination will facilitate ongoing supervision.
iv.

Other Direct Benefits

SBS Entity registration will be implemented with fillable forms with a graphical user
interface on the EDGAR website. 312 Collecting the data in a structured format will allow the
Commission to make the data public in a manner that will enable users of that data to retrieve,
search, and analyze the data through automated means. This format may lower costs of analyzing
possible counterparty risks arising from prior misconduct and other registration information of a
large group of potential counterparties. This may enable counterparties and the marketplace to
expend less time and money to independently obtain and compile information on individual SBS
Entities. In addition, final registration forms require SBS Entities to list UICs for both SBS Entities
and for their control affiliates, if such entities have UICs. The Commission has elsewhere stated

312

As described in Section II.A.1., we are also developing a batch filing process utilizing the
eXtensible Markup Language (“XML”) tagged data format that firms could use to upload
application information to the EDGAR system should they choose to do so instead of
utilizing fillable forms.

146

that the use of a single identifying code is designed to facilitate the performance of market analysis
studies, surveillance activities, and systemic risk monitoring by relevant authorities through the
streamlined presentation of security-based swap transaction data. 313 By securing information
regarding SBS Entities with the use of UICs and through EDGAR Commission staff should be able
to more efficiently retrieve and analyze the data it needs to effectively carry out its mission with
respect to SBS Entity activities, including oversight, risk assessment, and examination priorities.
2.

Indirect Benefits

The final registration rules create an SBS Entity registration regime, which facilitates the
application of substantive requirements of Title VII to registered SBS Dealers and Major SBS
Participants. The rules adopted in the Intermediary Definitions Adopting Release identified the
dealing volume and other criteria for an SBS Entity determination. The final registration rules and
forms rely on the adopted intermediary definitions and facilitate the application of Title VII
requirements, such as capital and margin requirements, external business conduct rules,
recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, to those entities that meet the dealing and major
participant activity thresholds.
Security-based swaps are more opaque and complex products than corporate bonds or
equity. While sophisticated security-based swap market participants are likely to have the ability
and resources to evaluate these complex products, less sophisticated market participants may be less
able to overcome informational asymmetries when transacting with SBS Entities. As discussed
above, informational asymmetry can negatively affect market participation and lower the amount of
trading. Final registration rules will facilitate application of the Title VII regime with resulting

313

See Regulation SBSR Adopting Release, at 14709

147

benefits of increasing counterparty protection, transparency and regulatory oversight of SBS
Entities.
Since substantive requirements for SBS Entities have not yet been adopted, the Commission
cannot currently evaluate the combined economic effects of facilitating the Title VII regime through
registration. Importantly, registration requirements may ultimately impact the number of entities
acting as dealers and major participants and providing liquidity to the SBS market, which may
affect the programmatic benefits and costs of the substantive Title VII requirements. We note that
the required certifications in the Registration rulemaking may directly affect which nonresident SBS
Entities can register and be subject to the substantive requirements of Title VII (see Section V.E. on
Efficiency, Competition and Capital Formation).
D.

Costs of Registration
1.

Direct Compliance Costs

As discussed in section IV above, the Commission estimates that SBS Entities would incur
costs of direct compliance associated with: (i) researching and completing the forms, (ii) reviewing,
completing and submitting the required certifications, and documenting the review process, (iii)
obtaining or compiling the required questionnaires or employment applications, having the CCO
review the questionnaires and certify that no relevant associated person is subject to statutory
disqualification, (iv) the requirements that nonresident SBS Entities obtain an agreement for U.S.
service of process and an opinion of counsel stating that they can provide the Commission with
access to records, and (v) the requirement to retain manually signed signature pages. 314

314

See Registration Proposing Release, 76 FR at 65813 through 65818. All hourly cost figures
are based upon data from SIFMA’s Management & Professional Earnings in the Securities
Industry 2013 (modified by the SEC staff to account for an 1,800-hour-work-year and
multiplied by 5.35 to account for bonuses, firm size, employee benefits, and overhead).

148

The Commission estimates that filing forms SBSE would incur a cost of approximately
$47,544, 315 filing forms SBSE-A would incur a cost of approximately $336,770, 316 and filing forms
SBSE-BD would incur a cost of approximately $47,544. 317 The Commission further estimates that
the total cost associated with the Senior Officer Certification would be approximately $666,875 for
all entities. 318 The Commission estimates the combined annual cost to SBS Entities of amending
their applications if they find that the information therein has become inaccurate at approximately
$46,695 annually. 319
Next, we estimate costs from associated person certifications. Section IV.D.3. of this
release estimated that the total upfront burden to all SBS Entities to have their CCOs (or designees)
review and sign each associated person’s employment record and/or conduct whatever review may
be necessary to assure that each associated natural person is not subject to statutory disqualification
would be approximately 23,157 hours, which we estimate may cost up to $11,231,145 for all SBS
Entities. 320 The cost of initial certifications for associated entity persons is estimated at
$1,360,425. 321
315

This figure is calculated as follows: (Compliance manager (42 hours) at $283 per hour) x 4
SBS entities = $47,544.

316

This figure is calculated as follows: (Compliance manager (34 hours) at $283 per hour) x 35
SBS entities = $336,770.

317

This figure is calculated as follows: (Compliance manager (10½ hours) at $283 per hour) x
16 SBS entities = $47,544.

318

This figure is calculated as follows: (CCO (5 hours + 20 hours) at $485 per hour) x 55 SBS
Entities = $666,875. We continue to believe the pay for a CCO likely would be similar to the
amount paid to other senior officers. For purposes of this estimate we assume that those a
senior officer may consult with are paid at approximately the same level. See Registration
Proposing Release 76 FR at 65816.

319

This figure is calculated as follows: (Compliance manager (1 hour) at $283 per hour) x 3
amendments x 55 SBS Entities = $46,695.

320

This figure is calculated as follows: (CCO at $485 per hour) x 23,157 hours = $11,231,145.
For purposes of this estimate we assume that designees are paid at approximately the same
149

The Commission further estimates that the total initial cost for all nonresident SBS Entities
to complete and file Schedule F would be approximately $9,339 322 in addition to initial outside
legal costs of approximately $550,000 estimated in Section IV.D.4. The total annual cost for all
nonresident SBS Entities to amend and file Schedule F on an ongoing basis would be approximately
$1,273.50 323 in addition to outside legal costs of approximately $28,938. Lastly, the annual costs of
retaining manually signed signature pages for all SBS Entities would be approximately $2,547 324
and the total annual cost of filing the withdrawal form for all SBS Entities would be approximately
$283. 325
Therefore, the Commission estimates that total initial quantifiable cost of registration of
$14,249,642 326 and ongoing costs of $79,736.50 327 for all SBS Entities.

level as the CCO. If CCO designees, such as attorneys, bear the brunt of the burden or are
compensated at significantly lower hourly rates in some SBS Entities, this assumption may
lead us to overestimate the compliance cost. We recognize that the job title of the designee,
extent of delegation and related costs will vary depending on the supervisory structure and
complexity of each SBS Entity. We believe it is reasonable to interpret this figure as an
upper bound on the potential cost of CCO certification.
321

This figure is estimated as follows: (CCO at $485 per hour) x 2,805 hours = $1,360,425.
Similar to the initial burden calculated above, we assume that CCO designees are paid at
approximately the same level as CCOs. We believe it is reasonable to interpret this figure as
an upper bound on the potential cost of CCO certification.

322

This figure is estimated as follows: (Compliance manager at $283 per hour) x 1 ½ hours x
22 SBS Entities = $9,339.

323

This figure is estimated as follows: ((Compliance manager at $283 per hour) x 1 ½ hours x 2
SBS Entities to amend for changes to agent for service of process) + ((Compliance manager
at $283 per hour) x 1 ½ hours x 1 SBS Entities to amend for changes in foreign law) =
$1,273.50.

324

This figure is estimated as follows: (Compliance manager at $283 per hour) x (10 minutes x
55 SBS Entities) / 60 minutes = $283 * approximately 9 hours = $2,547.

325

This figure is estimated as follows: (Compliance manager at $283 per hour) x 1 hour = $283

326

This figure is estimated as follows: (Cost of filing forms SBSE, SBSE-A, SBSE-BD
($47,544 + $336,770 + $47,544)) + (Cost of Senior Officer Certification on form SBSE-C
($666,875)) + (Cost of associated person certifications on form SBSE-C ($11,231,145 +
150

2.

Other Direct Costs

The final registration rules would also entail a number of indirect costs for SBS Entities.
While these costs are difficult to quantify with any degree of certainty as outlined in section V.A.
and are, therefore, discussed qualitatively below, we recognize that they may be as, if not more,
significant than the direct costs quantified above.
i.

Costs Related to the Disciplinary History Disclosure Requirement

Final registration rules require SBS Entities to disclose disciplinary history, including that of
control affiliates, to the Commission. Since SBS Entity disclosures made during the registration
process will be publicly available to investors, market participants will be able to easily access and
compare such data for all SBS Entities. To the extent that market participants rely on disciplinary
history information in counterparty choices and to the extent that market participants cannot easily
observe this information for all participants (such as participants not otherwise registered with the
Commission as broker-dealers or the CFTC as swap entities and for control affiliates), SBS Entities
with prior disciplinary history may suffer a reputational loss and decreased customers and profits.
We have also received comment that entities with extensive control affiliates may face a
higher compliance burden. 328 The commenter did not provide specific comments on the burden
estimates in the Registration Proposing Release or provide any data regarding control affiliates; no
such data is public or otherwise available to the Commission. Tailored registration forms are
intended to reduce burdens for cross-registered entities. However, we recognize that some entities
$1,360,425)) + (Cost of nonresidents filing Schedule F ($9,339)) + Cost of outside counsel
($550,000)) = $14,249,642.
327

This figure is estimated as follows: (Amending application forms ($46,695)) + (Amending
Schedule F (1,273.50)) + (Opinion of counsel and agent for service of process
($25,000+$3,938)) + (Retaining manually signed pages ($2,547)) + (Filing withdrawal form
($283)) = $79,736.50.

328

See SIFMA Letter, at 4.

151

may have extensive control affiliate structures and, therefore, face a higher compliance burden. If
such control affiliates have adverse disciplinary histories, some SBS Entities may also face greater
reputational costs of making affiliate disciplinary history information public.
Should certain entities choose to restructure their dealing in order to avoid SBS Entity
registration and the requirement to provide disciplinary history information, they would incur costs
of forgone profits that stem from having to reduce transaction volume from current levels to levels
below the de minimis threshold, and/or costs of moving their security-based swap dealing abroad
and outside of the reach of Title VII requirements that include registration. In short, we expect that
SBS Entities affected by the disciplinary history requirement will trade off the costs of disclosure
with the costs of restructuring, including opportunity costs of lost transaction volume. If certain
SBS Entities choose to exit, security-based swap transactions and dealing may become more
concentrated. Further, such public disclosure may deter SBS Entities that have significant
disciplinary histories from entering the market. However, security-based swap transactions may
become concentrated among regulated entities with less severe disciplinary history, which may be
less likely to pose risk to counterparties.
ii.

Costs Related to Certifications

Final rules include a certification that a senior officer, after due inquiry, has reasonably
determined that an SBS Entity has developed and implemented written policies and procedures
reasonably designed to prevent violations of federal securities laws and rules thereunder, and that
the senior officer has documented the process by which he or she reached such determination. Final
rules also include a certification regarding statutorily disqualified associated persons. In addition to
the direct burden estimated in Section V.D.1 above, we recognize that the certifications will
increase senior officer liability risk and may lead SBS Entities to acquire additional insurance

152

coverage. It is possible, therefore, that the certification requirements may result in liability
insurance costs that are above what they would have been in the absence of the rule. The
Commission is unable to estimate these costs given that it lacks specific information regarding
current insurance costs for SBS Entities, the amount of the demand that there will be for increased
coverage, and thereby the potential increases associated with the rule.
In addition to liability insurance costs, certification requirements may affect the structure
and levels of senior officer compensation. While the level and structure of a senior officer’s pay
package generally depends on factors such as the level of risk inherent in the entity’s activities, the
entity’s growth prospects, and the scarcity and specificity of senior officer talent needed by the
entity, it may also reflect personal preferences influenced by characteristics of the senior officer,
including aversion to risk. In particular, risk aversion may lead senior officers to prefer pay
packages with predictable payments, rather incentive-based compensation or pay packages that
otherwise reflect underlying uncertainty. 329
For senior officers with established compensation packages, heightened liability risk may
create an incentive to negotiate changes to the composition of their compensation packages.
Because of the increased uncertainty arising from liability risk, risk-averse officers may lower the
value that they attach to the incentive-based component of their pay and may as a result demand an
offset to bear the increased uncertainty. The offset could come in the form of a smaller portion of
pay being comprised of incentive-based compensation, or through an increase in expected total
compensation, which would come at a greater cost to SBS Entities. The extent of any such increase
329

Executives typically have personal preferences regarding the form of compensation
received. To the extent that executives have different levels of risk aversion, they can arrive
at different personal valuations of the same performance-based compensation package.
Hence, more risk-averse executives may require additional compensation when paid in the
form of less certain performance-based compensation
153

would depend on the structure and conditions of the labor market for senior officers in SBS Entities
as well as other economic factors, including the negotiating environment and particular preferences
of senior officers, which will likely vary among SBS Entities and are difficult to quantify with any
degree of certainty.
iii.

Costs Related to the Associated Person Requirements

The associated person certification requires SBS Entities to certify that their associated
persons, which include natural persons and legal entities, effecting or involved in effecting securitybased swaps on their behalf are not subject to statutory disqualification. As we have noted in
sections V.B and V.C.1.ii, Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6) generally prohibits SBS Entities from
permitting statutorily disqualified associated persons to effect or be involved in effecting securitybased swaps on their behalf; however, the Commission has granted temporary relief from the
prohibition.
All SBS entities will incur direct compliance costs of making the certification required in
these final rules in section V.D.1 and V.D.2.ii. SBS Entities that are associating with disqualified
persons for the purposes of effecting or being involved in effecting security-based swaps will also
incur costs of disassociating with or reassigning such disqualified persons, as well as costs of
associating with new persons not subject to disqualification for the purposes of effecting or being
involved in effecting security-based swaps.
Importantly, final rules allow SBS Entities, when registering with the Commission, to permit
associated disqualified entity persons to effect security based swaps, provided that the
disqualification has occurred prior to the compliance date of registration rules. This exception is
aimed at mitigating possible business disruptions 330 for SBS Entities which may currently be
330

See SIFMA letter at 8.
154

associating with disqualified entities with potential follow-on effects for security based swap
markets as a whole. The Commission recognizes that permitting some associated persons that are
entities to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of SBS Entities may
pose risks of repeated misconduct and other violations. As discussed in section II.B.i, the
Commission retains full enforcement authority with respect to such associated entity persons, and
would be able to take action against entities and individuals based on violative conduct. Lastly,
current market conditions reflect the state of the world with temporary blanket relief from the
general prohibition on associated disqualified persons effecting or being involved in effecting
security-based swaps on behalf of SBS Entities. Relative to that scenario, final registration rules
implement the general statutory prohibition while providing limited relief to SBS Entities, when
registering with the Commission, if associated entity persons were disqualified prior to the
compliance date of the final rules.
In addition to these considerations, we received comment that some SBS Entities may be
unable to perform employee background checks necessary to ascertain statutory disqualification
status of persons located in some foreign jurisdictions. 331 If some SBS entities associate with
persons in jurisdictions with blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers for
the purposes of effecting security-based swaps, they may be unable to obtain requisite employee
personally identifiable information in order to perform the statutory disqualification check, make
the certification, and register as SBS Entities, or provide information to the SEC. The statutory
disqualification requirement may, therefore, impose costs on such entities, requiring them to use
other employees to effect their security-based swap transactions, to withdraw associated persons
from the reach of jurisdictions with blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal
331

See IIB Letter, at 19.
155

barriers, or decrease U.S. security-based swap volume below the thresholds. The Commission does
not, among other things, have data on the locations of SBS Entity employees effecting securitybased swaps in various foreign jurisdictions, their statutory disqualification status, the relative
expertise of SBS Entities’ employees outside these foreign jurisdictions, or profitability of current
dealing activity at volumes in excess of the thresholds. We are, therefore, unable to quantitatively
estimate the number of SBS Entities that may be affected or their costs of using other persons,
relocating associated persons outside of these foreign jurisdictions or decreasing activity below the
thresholds. The commenter did not provide any data to quantify the effects of possible conflicts
with blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers as they pertain to employee
questionnaires and a statutory disqualification determination, and such data are not otherwise
publicly available. Based on FINRA’s experience with low incidence of disqualification review
applications by broker dealers seeking to associate with disqualified natural persons, we believe
that, as a practical matter, SBS Entities may frequently be able to reassign or disassociate from
disqualified employees. The Commission is not adopting an exception for natural persons at this
time.
The Commission has received comment that implementing the statutory prohibition on
disqualified persons effecting or involved in effecting security-based swaps absent a Commission
rule or order may cause business disruptions. 332 The commenter did not provide data on the number
of associated persons that may be affected or the extent of potential business disruptions. Based on
somewhat analogous data from the NFA and FINRA, the Commission estimates that, on an annual
basis, fewer than five SBS Entities would seek relief for natural persons subject to statutory
disqualification to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps and fewer than two SBS
332

See SIFMA letter, at 8.

156

Entities would seek relief for disqualified associated entities. 333 Registration rules also provide
relief to SBS Entities, when registering with the Commission, associating with disqualified entities
for the purpose of effecting security-based swaps if disqualification occurred prior to the
compliance date of registration rules. We note that, as a practical matter, SBS Entities may be
easily able to reassign or disassociate from disqualified natural persons, and SBS Entities currently
intermediating large volumes of security-based swaps would be able to take advantage of the

333

While the incidence of statutory disqualification is difficult to quantify, we draw on data
concerning an analogous statutory disqualification review process for broker-dealers. In
2014, FINRA received 24 MC-400 applications for natural persons and 10 MC-400A
applications for entities. In total, FINRA has received 177 MC-400 and 63 MC-400A
applications during the same five year period (2010 – 2014).
FINRA currently oversees approximately 4,000 currently registered broker-dealers and
272,000 registered representatives. As discussed earlier, the Commission anticipates 55 SBS
Entities may register with the Commission with 423 associated persons per entity (23,265
associated persons in total). Therefore, we expect significantly fewer applications in
security-based swap markets.
Another somewhat analogous scenario is swap dealer statutory disqualification.
According to NFA staff, between October 11, 2012 and July 22, 2015, 11 applications had
been made by Swap Entities to the NFA for the NFA to provide notice to the Swap Entity
that, had the person applied for registration as an associated person, the NFA would have
granted such registration. See CFTC staff No-Action Letter No. 12-15,
http://www.cftc.gov/ucm/groups/public/@lrlettergeneral/documents/letter/12-15.pdf , at 5-8.
The Commission has estimated that up to 55 SBS Entities may seek registration, while the
CFTC has provisionally registered 112 Swap Entities (https://www.nfa.futures.org/NFAswaps-information/regulatory-info-sd-and-msp/SD-MSP-registry.HTML; last accessed July
24, 2015). Using the above data from the NFA concerning 11 applications over
approximately 2.78 years, results in an estimate of approximately 2 applications per year
(11*55/112)/2.78~=1.94).
The Commission, however, recognizes that the number of applications received by the NFA
may only present a partial picture of the potential impact of a disqualification because, inter
alia, (1) the CFTC defines “associated person” of a Swap Entity to be limited solely to
natural persons, not entities (see 17 CFR 1.3(aa)(6)); (2) in CFTC Regulation 23.22(b), 17
CFR 23.22(b), the CFTC provided an exception from the prohibition set forth in CEA
Section 4s(b)(6), 7 U.S.C. 6s(b)(6), for any person subject to a statutory disqualification who
is already listed as a principal, registered as an associated person of another CFTC
registrant, or registered as a floor broker or floor trader.
157

exception above. Finally, SBS Entities seeking to associate with disqualified persons may apply to
the Commission for relief under Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6).
iv.

Costs for Nonresident SBS Entities

Under the final rules, nonresident SBS Entities will have to provide an opinion of counsel
that they can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission with prompt access to books and records
and submit to onsite inspection, and certify that, as a matter of law, they can and will provide
prompt access to books and records for the purposes of facilitating Commission oversight,
inspections and examinations. As recognized in the Registration Proposing Release and discussed
by commenters, blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers in some foreign
jurisdictions may make such certification and, hence, SBS Entity registration impossible for some
nonresident SBS Entities. 334
Nonresident SBS Entities precluded from registration due to blocking laws, privacy laws,
secrecy laws and other legal barriers will bear the cost of lowering or restructuring their market
activity below the SBS Dealer and Major SBS Participant annual thresholds that trigger registration
requirements. Alternatively, nonresident SBS Entities that are unable to make the books and
records certification may be able to relocate or otherwise restructure, such that they are no longer
subject to foreign blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers that are not
consistent with the required certification, and therefore continue U.S. security-based swap dealing
in excess of the thresholds triggering registration requirements. The cost of the books and records
certification to nonresident SBS Entities would thus include the costs of such potential relocation or
restructuring, which depend on the legal and regulatory frameworks in various foreign jurisdictions

334

See Registration Proposing Release, at 65800. Also see, e.g., SIFMA Letter, at 9-10, and IIB
Letter, at 19.

158

and the organizational complexity of entities that may seek SBS Entity registration, including those
currently unregistered with the Commission.
Based on internal analysis of TIW data, as well as a review of CFTC staff no action letters,
the Commission estimates that nonresident U.S. persons unable to make the books and records
certification and register as SBS Entities currently account for approximately 18% of overall
security-based swap dealing activity. 335 The anticipated implications of this registration
requirement for efficiency, competition and capital formation are discussed in Section V.E.
3.

Indirect Costs

As discussed in Sections V.A. and V.C.2. above, final registration rules create a population
of SBS Entity registrants with activity and position volumes determined in the adopted intermediary
definitions, which will be subject to ongoing Commission oversight and pending substantive Title
VII requirements, including capital and margin, external business conduct, recordkeeping and
reporting requirements. Entities choosing to register with the Commission as SBS Entities will incur
the costs of compliance with substantive rules, as well as costs relating to Commission inspections
and examinations. While the costs of pending Title VII rules will be evaluated in each substantive
rulemaking, the Commission recognizes that registration facilitates the application of the

335

More specifically, since we expect a large number of U.S. SBS Entities will have crossregistered as Swap Entities, we considered foreign jurisdictions where CFTC staff provided
no-action relief for trade repository reporting requirements as they apply to swap dealers
(available at http://www.cftc.gov/ucm/groups/public/@lrlettergeneral/documents/letter/1501.pdf) to inform our analysis. These no-action letters identify a set of “Enumerated
Jurisdictions” where blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers may
inhibit compliance with regulatory requirements. We then matched the “Enumerated
Jurisdictions” to the domicile classifications in the set of the 55 entities we anticipate will
register as SBS Entities to identify the subset of affected entities. We estimate that this
subset currently accounts for approximately 18% of overall dealing activity. This estimate is
based on current market activity and could differ if affected nonresident SBS Entities
seeking registration with the Commission are able to change their residency before the
compliance date of final registration rules.
159

substantive rules to SBS Entities and therefore SBS Entities registering with the Commission will
incur additional costs related to other Title VII rules.
E.

Effects on Efficiency, Competition and Capital Formation

Final registration rules may impose a burden on competition for smaller SBS Entities to the
extent that they impose relatively fixed costs, which could represent a higher percentage of net
income for smaller SBS Entities. However, registration costs may impact SBS Entities already
registered as broker dealers with the Commission or swap entities with the CFTC to a lesser degree
because we have accommodated cross-registered entities by providing separate and tailored forms
that minimize duplicate disclosures. Indeed, based on an analysis of TIW data and the current
population of registered broker dealers, swap dealers, and OTC derivative dealers, of the fifty SBS
Dealers and up to five Major SBS Participants that may seek to register with the Commission as
SBS Entities, we anticipate that up to four will not have already registered as broker dealers or as
swap dealers. 336 Our assessment is that all other registrants will be able to take advantage of the
streamlined registration forms SBSE-A and SBSE-BD.
Beyond the cost of completing and submitting registration forms, some SBS Entities may be
unable or unwilling to make the senior officer, associated person, books and records certifications
and disciplinary history disclosures, and those SBS Entities could consider exiting the U.S. SBS
market. We do not believe that the direct registration costs quantified in section V.D.1 would be
high enough to materially affect the application for registration or prompt large scale exit by SBS
Entities. However, reputational costs and direct burdens of disciplinary history disclosures,
including those affecting control affiliates, books and records requirements and certifications for
nonresident SBS Entities, and statutory disqualification requirements may impose significant and,
336

See also Registration Proposing Release, at 65808.
160

possibly, prohibitive costs on some SBS Entities. Such costs could lead to fewer intermediaries
competing for security-based swap business in the U.S. market. At the same time, mitigating this
potential impact, these requirements may offer a degree of counterparty protection and enable
market participants to make more informed counterparty choices, potentially leading to increases in
market participation and liquidity in security-based swaps.
While programmatic costs and benefits of the substantive Title VII requirements will be
assessed in each of the substantive rulemakings, we recognize that some SBS Entities may
determine the registration requirements, substantive requirements and transparency of the Title VII
regime are not cost-effective for them, and may withdraw from U.S. security-based swap markets or
lower their dealing activity below the minimum thresholds which trigger registration.
Some SBS entities outside of foreign jurisdictions with blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy
laws and other legal barriers may associate with persons in jurisdictions with blocking laws, privacy
laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers for the purposes of effecting security-based swaps.
Affected SBS Entities may be unable to perform background checks necessary to ascertain statutory
disqualification status of associated persons located in these foreign jurisdictions. Should affected
SBS Entities choose not to use other employees or entities to effect their security-based swap
transactions or to withdraw associated persons from certain foreign jurisdictions, they may decrease
U.S. security-based swap volume below the thresholds. This requirement may, therefore, preclude
some SBS Entities from registering and place affected SBS Entities at a competitive disadvantage.
Furthermore, depending on the specificity and scarcity of skills necessary to profitably effect
security-based swaps, entities affected by foreign jurisdictions with blocking laws, privacy laws,
secrecy laws and other legal barriers may choose to associate with different personnel for the
purposes of effecting security-based swaps.

161

As indicated by commenters, 337 some nonresident SBS Entities meeting registration
thresholds may be unable to satisfy the access to records requirement due to blocking laws, privacy
laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers. The unavailability of substituted compliance with
respect to registration of SBS Entities, the requirement to provide an opinion of counsel indicating
that the entity can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission with prompt access to its books and
records, and the requirement to certify that the entity can and will provide the Commission with
prompt access to its books and records may have competitive effects. In particular, foreign SBS
Entities from certain jurisdictions may be forced to withdraw from U.S. security-based swap
markets or decrease their security-based swap market participation below the threshold levels if
laws or other barriers in their local jurisdictions preclude them from complying with Title VII
registration requirements, which may lead to differential market access and create competitive
disadvantages for some non-resident SBS Entities.
As discussed above, the Commission estimates that SBS Entities with up to 18% market
share may be affected by the books and records requirement in foreign jurisdictions with blocking
laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers. The feasibility and costs of potential
organizational restructuring – relocating, spinning off or in other ways severing an affiliation with a
subsidiary, such that they are no longer subject to these foreign laws and other barriers and can
make the books and records certification – are unclear. Due to the high concentration of dealing
activity in security-based swap markets among large entities, the potential decrease in volume by
affected SBS Entities may be significant. Potential withdrawal of affected SBS Entities from U.S.
security-based swap markets may increase the market share and pricing power of remaining SBS

337

See letters from SIFMA, Futures Industry Association, and The Financial Services
Roundtable Letter; Institute of International Bankers Letter; European Commission Letter.

162

Entities, which may result in higher costs of risk mitigation through security-based swaps for firms
and market participants. If SBS Entities meeting registration thresholds are precluded from
registration due to conflicts with foreign blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal
barriers, the total volume of trading and liquidity in security-based swap markets may decrease,
which may be accompanied by lower price discovery and informational efficiency in security-based
swap markets, as well as higher transaction costs for customers of dealers. However, SBS Entities
currently participating in U.S. security-based swap market with lower transaction volumes may be
able to capture the newly opened market share. Further, the newly available market share may
encourage new entry. Thus, the overall effects of the books and records and associated person
certification requirements on U.S. security-based swap market competition are unclear, and depend
on whether affected volume is captured by existing dealers with large market share, existing dealers
with small market share, or new entrants.
As discussed above, in adopting these final rules, we are required to consider, in addition to
competition, the impact of these rules on efficiency and capital formation. In many respects, the
effect of these rules on efficiency and capital formation are expected to flow from their effects on
competition. For example, markets that are competitive, with equal access by financial
intermediaries to swaps, security-based swaps, and underlying reference securities, promote
informational efficiencies, increased hedging opportunities, and therefore the efficient allocation of
capital. In evaluating the economic effects of our rules, we have been mindful of the close
relationship between single-name and index CDS contracts, as well as the linkages between
security-based swaps and their underlying reference securities. Rules that facilitate access to
CFTC-regulated and SEC-regulated swap and security-based swap markets should increase hedging
opportunities for financial market intermediaries; such hedging opportunities reduce risks and allow

163

intermediaries to facilitate a greater volume of financing activities, including issuance of equity and
debt securities, and therefore contribute to capital formation.
This may be particularly true in underlying securities markets, where potential pricing and
liquidity effects in security-based swap markets may feed back and impact the market for reference
entity securities. Security-based swap markets may enable better risk mitigation by investors in
underlying reference securities, such as CDS hedging of credit risk of corporate bond investments.
The possible contraction in security-based swap market participation by affected SBS Entities in or
associating with persons in jurisdictions with blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other
legal barriers may adversely impact underlying reference security markets, including pricing and
liquidity in corporate bond markets. This may have a negative effect on the ability of firms to raise
debt capital in order to finance real investment. However, the spillover from deterioration in
security-based swap markets into underlying reference security markets may also be positive.
Sophisticated institutional investors transact across CDS and bond markets to trade on information
pertaining to the credit risk of underlying reference debt. A potential negative shock to securitybased swap market liquidity and dealing by nonresident SBS Entities may, in fact, drive
sophisticated institutions to search for liquidity pools and lower price impact of informed trades to
reference security markets. 338 If institutions begin to trade more actively in underlying reference
security markets, such as corporate bond markets as a result, there may be positive effects on
liquidity and informational efficiency of corporate bond markets. This may enable firms to raise
more debt at potentially lower costs to finance real investment. 339 However, to the extent that

338

Some SBS Entities may also move their security-based swap transactions to foreign SBS
markets with potential implications for foreign reference security markets. Also see Section
V.B.3 on cross-market participation.

339

See Section V.B.3 above.
164

potential exit of SBS Entities due to foreign blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other
legal barriers and registration requirements creates opportunities for SBS Entities with smaller
market share to capture more volume or opens up the opportunity for new entry, effects on securitybased swap and reference security markets may differ from the scenario above.
Finally, as noted above, we estimate that entities in foreign jurisdictions with blocking laws,
privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers currently account for 18% of security-based
swap transaction activity, and the inability of these entities to make the required books and records
certifications can potentially impose significant burdens on either the security-based swap market or
certain participants. In crafting our final rules, we have attempted to minimize business disruptions
and competitive burdens where possible. As we have discussed above, the Commission’s
inspection and examination authority is vital to proper oversight of SBS Dealers and Major SBS
Participants, and any limitation on oversight of non-U.S. registered SBS entities would raise
significant challenges to the Commission’s effective regulation of these firms. Given our Exchange
Act mandate to ensure the maintenance of fair, orderly, and efficient markets, and given our belief
that examination authority and access to books and records is essential to enabling effective market
oversight, the Commission believes that any burden on competition that results from the provisions
in this rule is necessary and appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act and thus
consistent with Exchange Act Section 23(a)(2).
F.

Registration Rule Alternatives
1.

Associated Person Certification Requirement

The Commission has evaluated alternatives to the associated person certification
requirement, including narrowing the definition of associated persons to natural persons similar to
the CFTC’s approach. This alternative involves interpreting the prohibition under Exchange Act

165

Section 15F(b)(6) to apply only to natural persons and providing blanket relief allowing SBS
Entities to associate with disqualified persons that are not natural persons regardless of the nature or
timing of disqualification, or any other factors. Under this alternative, treatment of associated
entities would be identical for SBS Entities dually-registered with the CFTC, creating potential
economies of scope for dual registrants in associating with persons that are entities. Further, this
approach could eliminate associated person certification costs and barriers to entry for SBS Entities
associating with disqualified entities. However, the Commission would not be able to prohibit
those disqualified entities that pose a risk to counterparties and integrity of security-based swap
markets from effecting or being involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of SBS
Entities. Further, statutory disqualification and an inability to continue associating with SBS
Entities creates a disincentive against underlying misconduct for associated persons, and a blanket
exception for disqualified associated persons that are entities may reduce the disincentive against
misconduct. These effects could reduce the counterparty protection benefits of the associated
person certification and may pose a risk to market participants.
The Commission is adopting an approach which permits SBS Entities, when registering with
the Commission, to associate with disqualified entity persons if the conduct that gave rise to
disqualification occurred prior to the compliance date of registration. Similar to the approach
discussed above, this aspect of the final rules mitigates the risk of potential market disruptions from
SBS Entities being unable to register due to associations with disqualified entities around the
compliance date of final registration rules. The Commission also retains flexibility to grant relief
for SBS Entities associating with disqualified entities under Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6).
The Commission also considered applying the statutory disqualification prohibition on a
transaction level and limiting its application to associated persons conducting activity with U.S.

166

person counterparties on behalf of U.S. SBS Entities. This alternative would effectively remove the
associated person prohibition for foreign associated persons that engage in activity outside of the
U.S. It would lower direct costs of the associated person certification, particularly for those SBS
Entities which extensively associate with foreign associated persons. Further, it could lower
potential barriers to registration of SBS Entities associating with persons in foreign jurisdictions
with blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers, which may preclude
background checks for foreign persons. 340 Like other relief or exceptions from the prohibition this
approach would lead to a greater number of disqualified persons being permitted to effect or be
involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of U.S. SBS Entities outside of the U.S.,
diluting the positive signal of registration as a U.S. SBS Entity and related counterparty protections.
SBS Entities engage in extensive cross-border activity and any counterparty risks to foreign
counterparties of U.S. SBS Entities from foreign disqualified associated persons may spill over into
trading and pricing with U.S. market participants. The Commission lacks data to support or
quantify the effects of possible conflicts with foreign blocking laws, privacy laws, secrecy laws and
other legal barriers as they pertain to employee questionnaires and a statutory disqualification
determination. We do not have data about the location and statutory disqualification status of SBS
Entity associated persons, as well as transaction level detail on the nature of their activities, in order
to evaluate the possible costs and benefits of this alternative relative to the baseline as well as
relative to the requirements in the final rules. Such data is also not available to the public. In light
of the above considerations and the Commission’s risk interest from foreign disqualified associated
persons transacting on behalf of US SBS Entities, it is unclear that the overall economic effects of
this alternative are more positive than those of the final rules being adopted. Final rules implement a
340

See IIB letter, at 20

167

general statutory prohibition on disqualification, while providing relief for certain SBS Entities
associating with disqualified entities. We further note that should some SBS Entities become
precluded from registration or incur high costs as a result, for instance, of foreign person
associations, affected SBS Entities could request relief from the Commission under Exchange Act
Section 15F(b)(6).
Another commenter proposed limiting “the scope of who is considered to be an associated
person effecting or involved in effecting security-based swaps.” 341 The commenter proposed that
the Commission more narrowly define the relevant terms, for instance to align with the CFTC’s
proposed definition that limits the term to persons involved in the solicitation or acceptance of
security-based swaps, or the supervision of any person or persons so engaged, or that the
Commission exercise its statutory authority to grant exceptions from the statutory prohibition in
Exchange Act Section 15F(b)(6). This alternative would decrease the scope of disqualified persons,
resulting in lower costs for and offering greater flexibility to potential SBS Entity registrants,
reducing barriers to entry and potentially increasing competition among SBS Entities. However,
since a greater number of disqualified persons would be permitted to associate with SBS Entities in
security-based swap markets, these alternatives may increase risks of fraud and other misconduct.
If, for instance, persons involved in structuring security-based swaps, facilitating execution or
handling customer funds and securities are excepted from the requirement, counterparty protection
benefits of the statutory disqualification provision may be reduced. The Commission is providing
relief for SBS Entities, when registering with the Commission, associated with disqualified entity
persons if the statutory disqualification occurred prior to the compliance date of final registration
rules. SBS Entities also may request relief from the Commission under Exchange Act 15F(b)(6).
341

See SIFMA Letter, at 8
168

2.

Licensing, Control Affiliates and CCO Certification Regarding
Associated Persons

The Commission also considered alternatives to the CCO Certification Requirement. One
alternative is to establish a licensing and examination regime to investigate associated persons
before permitting them to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of an
SBS Entity. 342 Such a regime may increase the level of screening of persons effecting securitybased swaps at SBS Entities, potentially reducing risks to market participants and counterparties
and establishing a minimum level of competence for associated persons. However, SBS Entities
may be able to independently evaluate whether associated persons have necessary knowledge, skill
and qualifications to price, arrange and execute security-based swap transactions. Given the extent
of market integration, and since we expect a majority of SBS Entities will have already registered
with the CFTC as swap entities, consistency in the regulatory treatment of swap and security-based
swap entities is another important consideration. Specifically, the NFA waives examination
requirements for associated persons whose activities are limited to swaps. 343 Further, as discussed
above, SBS Entities are not required to be members of SROs, which administer similar exams for
brokers, futures professionals etc. In light of the above considerations, Commission objectives in
registering and overseeing SBS Entities delineated in Section II, and constraints on SRO oversight
of SBS Entities, at present time the Commission does not believe that cost and benefit
considerations of this alternative are superior to the approach being adopted.

342

See Better Markets Letter, at 7

343

See NFA Registration Proficiency Requirements: https://www.nfa.futures.org/nfaregistration/proficiency-requirements.html, accessed 05/12/2015.

169

The requirement to provide information on the disciplinary matters affecting control
affiliates may impose significant burdens on registrants. 344 The Commission has examined the
alternative of narrowing the requirement to exclude control affiliates, which would decrease the
overall compliance burdens on applicants, potentially increasing incentives to register and
marginally lowering a barrier to entry by SBS Entities with a large number of control affiliates. We
note that the tailored registration forms we are adopting are designed to reduce burdens for those
entities that have already registered with the CFTC as swap entities or with the Commission as
broker dealers. Further, if applicants have control affiliates with a history of misconduct that they
are not required to disclose to the Commission, the Commission’s ability to perform risk assessment
and market oversight duties may be affected, particularly in light of the high complexity of SBS
Entity dealing structures. The Commission believes that disciplinary information about control
affiliates is essential to ongoing supervision of SBS Entities. Further, making such disclosures
public may enhance the ability of market participants to assess potential counterparty risks,
particularly when dealing with SBS Entities with highly complex organizational forms, and make
more informed counterparty choices.
We have also considered the costs and benefits of alternatives of a pre-registration review
performed by the Commission or an independent external audit of each SBS Entity as part of the
registration process. 345 A pre-registration review by the Commission or a third party independent
audit could result in greater scrutiny of SBS Entities before they are permitted to transact in
security-based swap markets in excess of the thresholds triggering registration requirements,
potentially increasing counterparty protections and positive signaling benefits of registration as an

344

See SIFMA Letter, at 4.

345

See 2011 Better Markets Letter, at 3.

170

SBS Entity. It would also be consistent with the CFTC’s approach to registration of swap dealers
and major swap participants. However, the CFTC was able to leverage its existing registration
processes and forms, including a pre-registration review by NFA, by requiring swap entities to
become members of the NFA, 346 whereas the Exchange Act Sections 15A(a) and 3(a)(3)(B)
generally limit the membership of national securities associations to brokers and dealers. Final
registration rules create a registration process through which the Commission will review applicant
documents and information provided in the forms and may request follow-up information from
applicants based on initial assessment of applications. At this time it is unclear that, in the context
of a highly concentrated market in US security-based swaps with a central role of a small number of
SBS Entities, the overall economic effects of requiring extensive pre-registration reviews are more
beneficial than the registration process being adopted by the Commission.
The Commission proposed requiring registering entities to certify that they have operational,
financial and compliance capabilities to act as SBS Entities. The Commission has considered
commenter 347 concerns that the language of the proposed certification is unduly burdensome and
insufficiently explicit. The commenters claimed that the requirement was burdensome due to a lack
of clarity regarding substantive Title VII rules and their impact on the certification, and that there
was not an explicit list of factors to be taken into account to determine each capability. The
Commission has been persuaded that the “policies and procedures” certification we are adopting is
reasonably designed to provide assurances that each SBS Entity has put in place a framework to
enable it to operate in compliance with the applicable laws, rules and regulations. Further, we

346

See supra, foonote 46. See also supra, footnote 7.

347

See, e.g., SIFMA Letter, at 5-7; 2011 Better Markets Letter, at 5-6.

171

believe it is more concrete and understandable than the certification that was proposed, 348 and
avoids uncertainty about potential definitions of capabilities and how they may be impacted by
pending substantive Title VII rules. The Commission is adopting a requirement for a senior officer
to certify that, after due inquiry, he or she has reasonably determined that the applicant has
established, and maintains and reviews, policies and procedures reasonably designed to prevent
violation of federal securities laws and rules thereunder, and that he or she has documented the
process by which he or she reached such determination. The Commission expects this certification
will be easier to implement and mitigates commenter concerns about undue burdens on registrants,
while providing sufficient assurance that SBS Entities will be able to comply with securities laws
and rules thereunder.
3.

Requirements on Nonresidents

The Commission has considered registration costs imposed on nonresident entities,
particularly as they pertain to the books and records certification and the opinion of counsel, 349 the
alternative of substituted compliance with respect to registration requirements, and possible removal
of the books and records certification requirement for nonresident SBS Entities. These alternatives
would eliminate nonresident SBS Entity cost of obtaining an opinion of counsel as well as potential
costs of restructuring security-based swap dealing such that these entities are no longer exceeding
registration dealing thresholds. As a result, SBS Entities from jurisdictions with blocking laws,
privacy laws, secrecy laws and other legal barriers, which we estimate may currently execute
approximately 18% of SBS Dealing, would enjoy equal market access. However, these alternatives

348

See supra, footnote 33.

349

See letters from: SIFMA, the Futures Industry Association, and the Financial Services
Roundtable; the Institute of International Bankers; the European Commission, all dated
August 21, 2013.

172

may preclude the Commission from accessing books and records of some registered entities, and
impede the ability of the Commission to inspect and examine SBS Entities that it is overseeing and
to conduct ongoing market surveillance and risk assessments. Further, these alternatives would
introduce a disparity between nonresident SBS Entities in some foreign jurisdictions and all other
SBS Entities with respect to their ability to submit to Commission inspections and examinations.
Commission staff regularly access books and records in the Commission’s oversight of registered
entities for purposes of improving compliance, preserving market integrity, fraud prevention and
ongoing risk assessments. The Commission’s ability to examine entities subject to its oversight
facilitates identification of compliance deficiencies and potential enforcement actions for securities
law violations, as well as counterparty protection. Thus we are not adopting this alternative.
In formulating these final registration rules, we are sensitive to global regulatory efforts in
OTC derivative markets. Due to the extensive cross-border activity by U.S. SBS Entities and
nonresident SBS Dealers across jurisdictions, global regulation of swaps markets and, particularly,
substantive requirements for swap market participants, are likely to have an effect on incentives to
register with the Commission as SBS Entities. Jurisdictions with major OTC derivatives markets
have taken steps toward substantive regulation of these markets, though the pace of regulation
varies. Accordingly, many foreign participants likely will face substantive regulation of their
security-based swap activities that may address concerns similar to those addressed by the Title VII
regulatory framework. While the costs, benefits and economic effects of substantive rulemakings
under Title VII will be evaluated in a global regulatory landscape in pending rules, we recognize
that regulatory harmonization across countries, whenever feasible, may enhance competition,
facilitate price discovery and trading across these markets, as well as prevent market frictions and

173

persistent mispricing across countries. Absent a substituted compliance regime for registration, 350
the books and records requirement for nonresident SBS Entities may preclude some foreign SBS
Entities from registering with the Commission as discussed in Section V.E above. This may lead to
market fragmentation with potential adverse effects on competition, price, informational efficiency
and liquidity. However, the Commission continues to believe that its ability to inspect books and
records and examine SBS Entities is integral to ongoing oversight of security-based swap markets.
4.

Other Considerations

Finally, the Commission received comment concerning potential adverse effects of the
electronic method of filing through EDGAR. 351 This commenter suggested that the Commission
should provide at least six months between the adoption of final rules and the effective date of the
registration requirement to allow for resolution of these types of issues. Electronic filing of data in
a structured format facilitates Commission supervision and public dissemination of disclosures to
market participants, improving transparency in security-based swap markets. The commenter
indicated that the rule may impose a barrier to registration by entities if their computer systems
cannot access the EDGAR system because of incompatible security protocols or technology. The
commenter did not provide any cost estimates and the Commission has no information about
potential deficiencies in SBS Entity technological and IT capabilities that would preclude
registration. In an opaque and rapidly evolving market, electronic filing of disclosures as structured
data has the benefit of streamlining analysis and aggregation across time, participants, instrument
types and other important dimensions. We seek to minimize initial and ongoing compliance costs
through the implementation of final registration rules, which will include an interactive form

350

See IIF Letter, at 3-4.

351

See SIFMA Letter, at 3.

174

structured by the Commission, which will be submitted directly to EDGAR. Further, given the
extended compliance date for these rules, we believe firms will have sufficient time to work out any
technological issues associated with filing registration forms through the Commission’s EDGAR
system.
VI.

Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification
The Regulatory Flexibility Act (“RFA”) 352 requires Federal agencies, in promulgating rules,

to consider the impact of those rules on small entities. The Commission certified in the Registration
Proposing Release, pursuant to Section 605(b) of the RFA, 353 that proposed Rules 15Fb1-1 through
15Fb6-2 and Forms SBSE, SBSE-A, SBSE-C, SBSE-BD, and SBSE-W would not, if adopted, have
a significant economic impact on a substantial number of “small entities.” 354 The Commission
received no comments on this certification.
For purposes of Commission rulemaking in connection with the RFA, a small entity
includes: (i) when used with reference to an “issuer” or a “person,” other than an investment
company, an “issuer” or “person” that, on the last day of its most recent fiscal year, had total assets
of $5 million or less; 355 or (ii) a broker-dealer with total capital (net worth plus subordinated
liabilities) of less than $500,000 on the date in the prior fiscal year as of which its audited financial

352

5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.

353

5 U.S.C. 605(b).

354

Although Section 601(b) of the RFA defines the term “small entity,” the statute permits
agencies to formulate their own definitions. The Commission has adopted definitions for
the term small entity for the purposes of Commission rulemaking in accordance with the
RFA. Those definitions, as relevant to this proposed rulemaking, are set forth in Rule 0-10,
17 CFR 240.0-10. See Statement of Management on Internal Control, Exchange Act
Release No. 18451 (January 28, 1982), 47 FR 5215 (Feb. 4, 1982).

355

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(a).

175

statements were prepared pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d) under the Exchange Act, 356 or, if not required
to file such statements, a broker-dealer with total capital (net worth plus subordinated liabilities) of
less than $500,000 on the last day of the preceding fiscal year (or in the time that it has been in
business, if shorter); and is not affiliated with any person (other than a natural person) that is not a
small business or small organization. 357 Under the standards adopted by the Small Business
Administration, small entities in the finance and insurance industry include the following: (i) for
entities in credit intermediation and related activities, 358 entities with $550 million or less in assets
or, (ii) for non-depository credit intermediation and certain other activities, 359 $38.5 million or less
in annual receipts; (iii) for entities in financial investments and related activities, 360 entities with
$38.5 million or less in annual receipts; (iv) for insurance carriers and entities in related
activities, 361 entities with $38.5 million or less in annual receipts, or 1,500 employees for direct

356

See 17 CFR 240.17a-5(d).

357

See 17 CFR 240.0-10(c).

358

Including commercial banks, savings institutions, credit unions, firms involved in other
depository credit intermediation, credit card issuing, sales financing, consumer lending, real
estate credit, and international trade financing. 13 CFR 121.201 at Subsector 522.

359

Including firms involved in secondary market financing, all other non-depository credit
intermediation, mortgage and nonmortgage loan brokers, financial transactions processing,
reserve, and clearing house activities, and other activities related to credit intermediation.
13 CFR 121.201 at Subsector 522.

360

Including firms involved in investment banking and securities dealing, securities brokerage,
commodity contracts dealing, commodity contracts brokerage, securities and commodity
exchanges, miscellaneous intermediation, portfolio management, providing investment
advice, trust, fiduciary and custody activities, and miscellaneous financial investment
activities. 13 CFR 121.201 at Subsector 523.

361

Including direct life insurance carriers, direct health and medical insurance carriers, direct
property and casualty insurance carriers, direct title insurance carriers, other direct insurance
(except life, health and medical) carriers, reinsurance carriers, insurance agencies and
brokerages, claims adjusting, third party administration of insurance and pension funds, and
all other insurance related activities. 13 CFR 121.201 at Subsector 524.

176

property and casualty insurance carriers; and (v) for funds, trusts, and other financial vehicles, 362
entities with $32.5 million or less in annual receipts. 363
With respect to SBS Entities, based on feedback from market participants and our
information about the security-based swap markets, the Commission continues to believe that (1)
the types of entities that would engage in more than a de minimis amount of dealing activity
involving security-based swaps—which generally would be large financial institutions—would not
be “small entities” for purposes of the RFA; and (2) the types of entities that may have securitybased swap positions above the level required to be “major security-based swap participants” would
not be “small entities” for purposes of the RFA. 364
For the foregoing reasons, the Commission certifies that the SBS Entity registration rules
and forms, as adopted would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of
small entities for purposes of the RFA.
VII.

Statutory Basis
The Commission is adopting Rule 15Fb1-1 through 15Fb6-2 and Forms SBSE, SBSE-A,

SBSE-BD, SBSE-C, and SBSE-W pursuant to Sections 15F(a) through (d), 17(a), 23(a) and 30 of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

362

Including pension funds, health and welfare funds, other insurance funds, open-end
investment funds, trusts, estates, and agency accounts, real estate investment trusts and other
financial vehicles. 13 CFR 121.201 at Subsector 525.

363

See 13 CFR 121.201

364

See Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements for Security-Based Swap Dealers, Major
Security-Based Swap Participants, and Broker-Dealers; Capital Rule for Certain SecurityBased Swap Dealers, Exchange Act Release No. 71958 (Apr. 17, 2014), 79 FR 25194,
25296-97 & n.1441 (May 2, 2014); Further Definition of “Swap Dealer,” “Security-Based
Swap Dealer,” “Major Swap Participant,” “Major Security-Based Swap Participant” and
“Eligible Contract Participant,” Exchange Act Release No. 66868 (Apr. 27, 2012), 77 FR
30596, 30743 (May 23, 2012) (joint Commission / CFTC final rules).

177

VIII. Text of Final Amendments
List of Subjects
17 CFR Part 240
Registration, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities, Security-based swaps,
Security-based swap dealers, Major security-based swap participants,
17 CFR Part 249
Brokers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Securities, Forms.
Text of Final Rules
In accordance with the foregoing, the Securities and Exchange Commission is amending
Title 17, Chapter II of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows:
PART 240 – GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934
1.

The general authority citation for Part 240 is revised to read as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77c, 77d, 77g, 77j, 77s, 77z-2, 77z-3, 77eee, 77ggg, 77nnn, 77sss,

77ttt, 78c, 78c-3, 78c-5, 78d, 78e, 78f, 78g, 78i, 78j, 78j-1, 78k, 78k-1, 78l, 78m, 78n, 78n-1, 78o,
78o-4, 78o-10, 78p, 78q, 78q-1, 78s, 78u-5, 78w, 78x, 78dd, 78ll, 78mm, 80a-20, 80a-23, 80a-29,
80a-37, 80b-3, 80b-4, 80b-11, 7201 et seq., and 8302; 7 U.S.C. 2(c)(2)(E); 12 U.S.C. 5221(e)(3); 18
U.S.C. 1350; and Pub. L. 111-203, 939A, 124 Stat. 1376 (2010), unless otherwise noted.
* * * * *
2.

Add an undesignated center heading and §§ 240.15Fb1-1 through 240.15Fb6-2 to read as

follows:
Registration of Security-based Swap Dealers and Major Security-based Swap Participants
Sec.
240.15Fb1-1 Signatures.
178

240.15Fb2-1 Registration of security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap
participants.
240.15Fb2-3 Amendments to application for registration.
240.15Fb2-4 Nonresident security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants.
240.15Fb2-5 Registration of successor to registered security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant.
240.15Fb2-6 Registration of fiduciaries.
240.15Fb3-1 Duration of registration.
240.15Fb3-2 Withdrawal from registration.
240.15Fb3-3 Cancellation or revocation from registration.
240.15Fb6-1 Associated persons
240.15Fb6-2 Associated person certification.
* * * * *
§ 240.15Fb1-1. Signatures.
(a) Required signatures to, or within, any electronic submission (including, without
limitation, signatories within the forms and certifications required by §§ 240.15Fb2-1, 240.15Fb2-4
and 240.15Fb6-2) must be in typed form rather than manual format. Signatures in an HTML, XML
or XBRL document that are not required may, but are not required to, be presented in a graphic or
image file within the electronic filing. When used in connection with an electronic filing, the term
“signature” means an electronic entry in the form of a magnetic impulse or other form of computer
data compilation of any letters or series of letters or characters comprising a name, executed,
adopted or authorized as a signature.
(b) Each signatory to an electronic filing (including, without limitation, each signatory to the
forms and certifications required by §§ 240.15Fb2-1, 240.15Fb2-4 and 240.15Fb6-2) shall manually
179

sign a signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging or otherwise adopting his or
her signature that appears in typed form within the electronic filing. Such document shall be
executed before or at the time the electronic filing is made. Upon request, the security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant shall furnish to the Commission or its staff a copy
of any or all documents retained pursuant to this paragraph (b).
(c) A person required to provide a signature on an electronic submission (including, without
limitation, each signatory to the forms and certifications required by §§ 240.15Fb2-1, 240.15Fb2-4
and 240.15Fb6-2) may not have the form or certification signed on his or her behalf pursuant to a
power of attorney or other form of confirming authority.
(d) Each manually signed signature page or other document authenticating, acknowledging
or otherwise adopting his or her signature that appears in typed form within the electronic filing –
(1) on Schedule F to Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this chapter), SBSE-A (§249.1600a of this
chapter), or SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, shall be retained by the filer
until at least three years after the form or certification has been replaced or is no longer effective;
(2) on Form SBSE-C (§249.1600c of this chapter) shall be retained by the filer until at least
three years after the Form was filed with the Commission.
§ 240.15Fb2-1 Registration of security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap
participants.
(a) Application. An application for registration of a security-based swap dealer or a major
security-based swap participant that is filed pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) shall be filed on Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this chapter) or
Form SBSE-A (§249.1600a of this chapter) or Form SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this chapter), as
appropriate, in accordance with paragraph (c) and the instructions to the forms. Applicants shall

180

also file as part of their application the required certifications on Form SBSE-C (§249.1600c of this
chapter).
(b) Senior Officer Certification. A senior officer shall certify on Form SBSE–C (§
249.1600c of this chapter) that;
(1) after due inquiry, he or she has reasonably determined that the security-based swap
dealer or major security-based swap participant has developed and implemented written policies
and procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of federal securities laws and the rules
thereunder, and
(2) he or she has documented the process by which he or she reached such determination.
(c) Filing.
(1) Electronic filing. Every application for registration of a security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant and any additional registration documents shall be filed
electronically with the Commission through the Commission’s EDGAR system.
(2) Filing date. An application of a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based
swap participant submitted pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section shall be considered filed when
an applicant has submitted a complete Form SBSE-C (§249.1600c of this chapter) and a complete
Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§249.1600a of this chapter), or Form
SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, and all required additional documents
electronically with the Commission.
(d) Conditional registration. An applicant that has submitted a complete Form SBSE-C
(§249.1600c of this chapter) and a complete Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this chapter) or Form
SBSE-A (§249.1600a of this chapter) or Form SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this chapter), as
applicable, in accordance with paragraph (b) within the time periods set forth in §240.3a67-8 (if the

181

person is a major security-based swap participant) or §240.3a71-2(b) (if the person is a securitybased swap dealer), and has not withdrawn its registration shall be conditionally registered.
(e) Commission decision. The Commission may deny or grant ongoing registration to a
security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant based on a security-based swap
dealer’s or major security-based swap participant’s application, filed pursuant to paragraph (a) of
this section. The Commission will grant ongoing registration if it finds that the requirements of
Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) are satisfied. The
Commission may institute proceedings to determine whether ongoing registration should be denied
if it does not or cannot make such finding or if the applicant is subject to a statutory disqualification
(as described in Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(39)(A) – (F)), or the Commission is aware of inaccurate statements in the application. Such
proceedings shall include notice of the grounds for denial under consideration and opportunity for
hearing. At the conclusion of such proceedings, the Commission shall grant or deny such
registration.
§ 240.15Fb2-3 Amendments to Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, and Form SBSE-BD.
If a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant finds that the
information contained in its Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§249.1600a of
this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, or in any amendment
thereto, is or has become inaccurate for any reason, the security-based swap dealer or a major
security-based swap participant shall promptly file an amendment electronically with the
Commission through the Commission’s EDGAR system on the appropriate Form to correct such
information.

182

§ 240.15Fb2-4 Nonresident security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap
participants.
(a) Definition. For purposes of this section, the terms nonresident security-based swap
dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant shall mean:
(1) In the case of an individual, one who resides, or has his or her principal place of
business, in any place not in the United States;
(2) In the case of a corporation, one incorporated in or having its principal place of business
in any place not in the United States; or
(3) In the case of a partnership or other unincorporated organization or association, one
having its principal place of business in any place not in the United States.
(b) Power of attorney.
(1) Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap
participant registered or applying for registration pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) shall obtain a written irrevocable consent and power
of attorney appointing an agent in the United States, other than the Commission or a Commission
member, official or employee, upon whom may be served any process, pleadings, or other papers in
any action brought against the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major
security-based swap participant to enforce the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et
seq.). This consent and power of attorney must be signed by the nonresident security-based swap
dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant and the named agent(s) for service of
process.
(2) Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap
participant registered or applying for registration pursuant to section 15F(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) shall, at the time of filing its application on Form
183

SBSE (§249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD
(§249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, furnish to the Commission the name and address of its
United States agent for service of process on Schedule F to the appropriate form.
(3) Any change of a nonresident security-based swap dealer’s and nonresident major
security-based swap participant’s agent for service of process and any change of name or address of
a nonresident security-based swap dealer’s and nonresident major security-based swap participant’s
existing agent for service of process shall be communicated promptly to the Commission through
amendment of the Schedule F of Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A
(§249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate.
(4) Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap
participant must promptly appoint a successor agent for service of process, consistent with the
process described in paragraph (b)(1), if the nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident
major security-based swap participant discharges its identified agent for service of process or if its
agent for service of process is unwilling or unable to accept service on behalf of the nonresident
security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap participant.
(5) Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap
participant must maintain, as part of its books and records, the agreement identified in paragraphs
(b)(1) and (b)(4) of this section for at least three years after the agreement is terminated.
(c) Access to books and records.
(1) Certification and opinion of counsel. Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and
nonresident major security-based swap participant applying for registration pursuant to Section
15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b) shall:

184

(i) certify on Schedule F of Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A
(§249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, that
the nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap participant
can, as a matter of law, and will provide the Commission with prompt access to the books and
records of such nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major security-based swap
participant, and can, as a matter of law, and will submit to onsite inspection and examination by the
Commission; and
(ii) provide an opinion of counsel that the nonresident security-based swap dealer and
nonresident major security-based swap participant can, as a matter of law, provide the Commission
with prompt access to the books and records of such nonresident security-based swap dealer and
nonresident major security-based swap participant, and can, as a matter of law, submit to onsite
inspection and examination by the Commission.
(2) Amendments. Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and nonresident major
security-based swap participant shall re-certify, on Schedule F to Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this
chapter), Form SBSE-A (§249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this
chapter), as applicable, within 90 days after any changes in the legal or regulatory framework that
would impact the nonresident security-based swap dealer’s or nonresident major security-based
swap participant’s ability to provide, or the manner in which it provides the Commission with
prompt access to its books and records, or would impact the Commission’s ability to inspect and
examine the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major security-based swap
participant. The re-certification shall be accompanied by a revised opinion of counsel describing
how, as a matter of law, the nonresident security-based swap dealer or nonresident major securitybased swap participant will continue to meet its obligations to provide the Commission with prompt

185

access to its books and records and to be subject to Commission inspection and examination under
the new regulatory regime.
§ 240.15Fb2-5 Registration of successor to registered security-based swap dealer or a major
security-based swap participant.
(a) In the event that a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant
succeeds to and continues the business of a security-based swap dealer or major security-based
swap participant registered pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78o-10(b)), the registration of the predecessor shall be deemed to remain effective as the
registration of the successor if the successor, within 30 days after such succession, files an
application for registration in accordance with §240.15Fb2-1, and the predecessor files a notice of
withdrawal from registration on Form SBSE-W (§249.1601 of this chapter).
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if a security-based swap dealer or major
security-based swap participant succeeds to and continues the business of a registered predecessor
security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, and the succession is based
solely on a change in the predecessor's date or state of incorporation, form of organization, or
composition of a partnership, the successor may, within 30 days after the succession, amend the
registration of the predecessor security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant
on Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§249.1600a of this chapter), or Form
SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, to reflect these changes. This amendment
shall be deemed an application for registration filed by the predecessor and adopted by the
successor.
§ 240.15Fb2-6 Registration of fiduciaries.
The registration of a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant
shall be deemed to be the registration of any executor, administrator, guardian, conservator,
186

assignee for the benefit of creditors, receiver, trustee in insolvency or bankruptcy, or other
fiduciary, appointed or qualified by order, judgment, or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction
to continue the business of such registered security-based swap dealer or a major security-based
swap participant; Provided, that such fiduciary files with the Commission, within 30 days after
entering upon the performance of his or her duties, an amended Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this
chapter), Form SBSE-A (§249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this
chapter), as appropriate, indicating the fiduciary’s position with respect to management of the firm
and, as an additional document, a copy of the order, judgment, decree, or other document
appointing the fiduciary.
§ 240.15Fb3-1 Duration of registration.
(a) General. A person registered as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based
swap participant in accordance with §240.15Fb2-1 will continue to be so registered until the
effective date of any cancellation, revocation or withdrawal of such registration.
(b) Conditional registration. Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, conditional
registration shall expire on the date the registrant withdraws from registration or the Commission
grants or denies the person’s ongoing registration in accordance with §240.15Fb2-1(e).
§ 240.15Fb3-2 Withdrawal from registration.
(a) Notice of withdrawal from registration as a security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15
U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) shall be filed on Form SBSE-W (§249.1601 of this chapter) in accordance with
the instructions contained therein. Every notice of withdrawal from registration as a security-based
swap dealer or major security-based swap participant shall be filed electronically with the
Commission through the Commission’s EDGAR system. Prior to filing a notice of withdrawal

187

from registration on Form SBSE-W, a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
participant shall amend its Form SBSE (§249.1600 of this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§249.1600a of
this chapter) or Form SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this chapter), as appropriate, in accordance with
§240.15Fb2-3(a) to update any inaccurate information.
(b) A notice of withdrawal from registration filed by a security-based swap dealer or major
security-based swap participant pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
(15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) shall become effective for all matters (except as provided in this paragraph
(b)) on the 60th day after the filing thereof with the Commission or its designee, within such longer
period of time as to which such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant
consents or which the Commission by order may determine as necessary or appropriate in the public
interest or for the protection of investors, or within such shorter period of time as the Commission
may determine. If a notice of withdrawal from registration is filed with the Commission at any time
subsequent to the date of the issuance of a Commission order instituting proceedings to censure,
place limitations on the activities, functions or operations of, or suspend or revoke the registration
of, such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant, or if prior to the
effective date of the notice of withdrawal pursuant to this paragraph (b), the Commission institutes
such a proceeding or a proceeding to impose terms or conditions upon such withdrawal, the notice
of withdrawal shall not become effective pursuant to this paragraph (b) except at such time and
upon such terms and conditions as the Commission deems necessary or appropriate in the public
interest or for the protection of investors.
§ 240.15Fb3-3 Cancellation and revocation of registration.
(a) Cancellation. If the Commission finds that any person registered pursuant to
§240.15Fb2-1 is no longer in existence or has ceased to do business as a security-based swap dealer

188

or major security-based swap participant, the Commission shall by order cancel the registration of
such person.
(b) Revocation. The Commission, by order, shall censure, place limitations on the activities,
functions, or operations of, or revoke the registration of any security-based swap dealer or major
security-based swap participant that has registered with the Commission if it makes a finding as
specified in Section 15F(l)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(l)(2)).
§ 240.15Fb6-1 Associated persons. Unless otherwise ordered by the Commission, when it files an
application to register with the Commission as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based
swap participant, a security-based swap dealer or a major security-based swap participant may
permit a person that is associated with such security-based swap dealer or major security-based
swap participant that is not a natural person and that is subject to statutory disqualification to effect
or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf, provided that the statutory
disqualification(s), described in Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)(A) – (F)), occurred prior to the compliance date of this rule, and
provided that it identifies each such associated person on Schedule C of Form SBSE (§249.1600 of
this chapter), Form SBSE-A (§249.1600a of this chapter), or Form SBSE-BD (§249.1600b of this
chapter), as appropriate.
§ 240.15Fb6-2 Associated person certification.
(a) Certification. No registered security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
participant shall act as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant unless
it has certified electronically on Form SBSE-C (Section 249.1600c of this chapter) that it neither
knows, nor in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, that any person associated with
such security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant who effects or is involved

189

in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the security-based swap dealer or major securitybased swap participant is subject to a statutory disqualification, as described in Sections 3(a)(39)(A)
through (F) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)(A) – (F)), unless
otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation or order of the Commission.
(b) To support the certification required by paragraph (a) of this section, the security-based
swap dealer’s or major security-based swap participant’s Chief Compliance Officer, or his or her
designee, shall review and sign the questionnaire or application for employment, which the securitybased swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is required to obtain pursuant to the
relevant recordkeeping rule applicable to such security-based swap dealer or major security-based
swap participant, executed by each associated person who is a natural person and who effects or is
involved in effecting security based swaps on the security-based swap dealer’s or major securitybased swap participant’s behalf. The questionnaire or application shall serve as a basis for a
background check of the associated person to verify that the person is not subject to statutory
disqualification.
PART 249 – FORMS, SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
3.

The authority citation for Part 249 continues to read, in part, as follows:
Authority: 15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. and 7201 et seq.; 12 U.S.C. 5461 et seq.; and 18 U.S.C.

1350, unless otherwise noted.
* * * * *
4.

Add subpart Q to read as follows:

Subpart Q - Registration of Security-based Swap Dealers and Major Security-based Swap
Participants
Sec.

190

249.1600

Form SBSE, for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major
security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration.

249.1600a

Form SBSE-A, for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for
registration by firms registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant that are not also registered
or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer.

249.1600b

Form SBSE-BD, for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for
registration by firms registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or
dealer.

249.1600c

Form SBSE-C, for certification by security-based swap dealers and major securitybased swap participants.

249.1601

Form SBSE-W, for withdrawal from registration as a security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for
registration.

§ 249.1600 Form SBSE, for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration.
This form shall be used for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant by firms that are not registered with the Commission as a
broker or dealer and that are not registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant, pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the

191

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) and to amend such an application for
registration.
§ 249.1600a Form SBSE-A, for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration by
firms registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap
dealer or major swap participant that are not also registered or registering with the
Commission as a broker or dealer.
This form shall be used instead of Form SBSE (§249.1600) to apply for registration as a
security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant by firms that are not registered
or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer but that are registered or registering with
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant, pursuant
to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) and to amend such
an application for registration. An entity that is registered or registering with the Commission as a
broker or dealer and is also registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant shall apply for registration as a securitybased swap dealer or major security-based swap participant on Form SBSE-BD (§249.1600b) and
not on this Form SBSE-A.
§ 249.1600b Form SBSE-BD, for application for registration as a security-based swap dealer
or major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration by
firms registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer.
This form shall be used instead of either Form SBSE (§249.1600) or SBSE-A (§249.1600a)
to apply for registration as a security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant
solely by firms registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer, pursuant to

192

Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)) and to amend such an
application for registration. An entity that is registered or registering with the Commission as a
broker or dealer and is also registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission as a swap dealer or major swap participant, shall apply for registration as a securitybased swap dealer or major security-based swap participant on this Form SBSE-BD and not on
Form SBSE-A.
§ 249.1600c Form SBSE-C, for certification by security-based swap dealers and major
security-based swap participants.
This form shall be used to file required certifications on Form SBSE-C pursuant to
§240.15Fb2-1(a) of this chapter.
§ 249.1601 Form SBSE-W, for withdrawal from registration as a security-based swap dealer
or major security-based swap participant or to amend such an application for registration.
This form shall be used to withdraw from registration as a security-based swap dealer or
major security-based swap participant, pursuant to Section 15F(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o-10(b)).
Note: The following Forms will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations.

By the Commission.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

Dated: August 5, 2015
193

Form SBSE

OMB Approval
OMB Number: .....3235-____
Expires:...... ..Month __, 2018
Estimated average burden hours
per response: . . . . . . . _____.
per amendment: . . . . . _____.

Application for
Registration of Security-based
Swap Dealers and Major Securitybased Swap Participants

FORM SBSE INSTRUCTIONS
A.
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
FORM - Form SBSE is the Application for Registration as either a Security-based Swap Dealer or Major Securitybased Swap Participant (collectively, “SBS Entities”). SBS Entities that are not registered or registering with the
Commission as broker-dealers nor registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(“CFTC”) as a swap dealer or major swap participant must file this form to register with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. An applicant must also file Schedules A, B, C, D, E, and F, as appropriate.
ELECTRONIC FILING – The applicant must file Form SBSE through the EDGAR system, and must utilize the
EDGAR Filer Manual (as defined in 17 CFR 232. 11) to file and amend Form SBSE electronically to assure the
timely acceptance and processing of those filings.
UPDATING - By law, the applicant must promptly update Form SBSE information by submitting amendments
whenever the information on file becomes inaccurate or incomplete for any reason [17 CFR 240.15Fb2-3]. In
addition, the applicant must update any incomplete or inaccurate information contained on Form SBSE prior to
filing a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form SBSE-W [17 CFR 15Fb3-2(a)].
CONTACT EMPLOYEE - The individual listed as the contact employee must be authorized to receive all
compliance information, communications, and mailings, and be responsible for disseminating it within the
applicant's organization.
FEDERAL INFORMATION LAW AND REQUIREMENTS - An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person
is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid control number.
Sections 15F, 17(a) and 23(a) of the Exchange Act authorize the SEC to collect the information on this form from
registrants. See 15 U.S.C. §§78o-10, 78q and 78w. Filing of this form is mandatory. The principal purpose of this
Form is to permit the Commission to determine whether the applicant meets the statutory requirements to engage
in the security-based swap business. The Commission maintains a file of the information on this form and will
make information collected via the form publicly available. Any member of the public may direct to the
Commission any comments concerning the accuracy of the burden estimate on this Form, and any suggestions
for reducing this burden. This collection of information has been reviewed by the Office of Management and
Budget in accordance with the clearance requirements of 44 U.S.C. §3507. The information contained in this form
is part of a system of records subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. The Securities and Exchange
Commission has published in the Federal Register the Privacy Act Systems of Records Notice for these records.

B.

FILING INSTRUCTIONS
1. FORMAT
a. Sections 1-17 must be answered and all fields requiring a response must be completed before the filing
will be accepted.
b. Failure to follow instructions or properly complete the form may result in the application being delayed or
rejected.
c. Applicant must complete the execution screen certifying that Form SBSE and amendments thereto have
been executed properly and that the information contained therein is accurate and complete.
d. To amend information, the applicant must update the appropriate Form SBSE screens.
e. A paper copy, with original signatures, of the initial Form SBSE filing and amendments to Disclosure
Reporting Pages (DRPs) must be retained by the applicant and be made available for inspection upon a
regulatory request.
2. DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (DRP) – Information concerning the applicant or control affiliate that
relates to the occurrence of an event reportable under Item 14 must be provided on the applicant’s
appropriate DRP.
3. DIRECT AND INDIRECT OWNERS - Amend the Direct Owners and Executive Officers screen and the
Indirect Owners screen when changes in ownership occur.
The mailing address for questions and correspondence is:
The Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, DC 20549

EXPLANATION OF TERMS
(The following terms are italicized throughout this form.)
1. GENERAL
APPLICANT - The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant applying on or amending this
form.
CONTROL - The power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of a company, whether through
ownership of securities, by contract, or otherwise. Any person that (i) is a director, general partner or officer exercising
executive responsibility (or having similar status or functions); (ii) directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25% or
more of a class of a voting security or has the power to sell or direct the sale of 25% or more of a class of voting
securities; or (iii) in the case of a partnership, has the right to receive upon dissolution, or has contributed, 25% or
more of the capital, is presumed to control that company.
STATE – Any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin
Islands, any other territory of the United States, or any subdivision or regulatory body thereof.
PERSON - An individual, partnership, corporation, trust, or other organization.
SELF-REGULATORY ORGANIZATION (SRO) - Any national securities or futures exchange, registered securities or
futures association, registered clearing agency, or derivatives clearing organization.
SUCCESSOR – The term “successor” is defined to be an unregistered entity that assumes or acquires substantially
all of the assets and liabilities, and that continues the business of, a predecessor security-based swap dealer or major
security-based swap participant that ceases its security-based swap activities. [See Exchange Act Rule 15Fb2-5 (17
CFR 240.15Fb2-5]
UNIQUE IDENTIFICATION CODE or UIC – For purposes of Form SBSE, the term “unique identification code” or
“UIC” means a unique identification code assigned to a person by an internationally recognized standards-setting
system that is recognized by the Commission [pursuant to Rule 903(a) of Regulation SBSR (17 CFR 242.903(a))].
2. FOR THE PURPOSE OF ITEM 14 AND THE CORRESPONDING DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGES (DRPs)
CHARGED - Being accused of a crime in a formal complaint, information, or indictment (or equivalent formal charge).
CONTROL AFFILIATE – A person named in Items 10 or 11 as a control person or any other individual or
organization that directly or indirectly controls, is under common control with, or is controlled by, the applicant,
including any current employee of the applicant except one performing only clerical, administrative, support or similar
functions, or who, regardless of title, performs no executive duties or has no senior policy making authority.
ENJOINED – Includes being subject to a mandatory injunction, prohibitory injunction, preliminary injunction, or a
temporary restraining order.
FELONY – For jurisdictions that do not differentiate between a felony and a misdemeanor, a felony is an offense
punishable by a sentence of at least one year imprisonment and/or a fine of at least $1,000. The term also includes a
general court martial.
FOUND – Includes adverse final actions, including consent decrees in which the respondent has neither admitted nor
denied the findings, but does not include agreements, deficiency letters, examination reports, memoranda of
understanding, letters of caution, admonishments, and similar informal resolutions of matters.
INVESTMENT OR INVESTMENT-RELATED – Pertaining to securities, commodities, banking, savings association
activities, credit union activities, insurance, or real estate (including, but not limited to, acting as or being associated
with a broker-dealer, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker or dealer, issuer, investment company,
investment adviser, futures sponsor, bank, security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap participant,
savings association, credit union, insurance company, or insurance agency).
INVOLVED – Doing an act or aiding, abetting, counseling, commanding, inducing, conspiring with or failing
reasonably to supervise another in doing an act.

2

MINOR RULE VIOLATION – A violation of a self-regulatory organization rule that has been designated as “minor”
pursuant to a plan approved by the SEC or CFTC. A rule violation may be designated as “minor” under a plan if the
sanction imposed consists of a fine of $2,500 or less, and if the sanctioned person does not contest the fine. (Check
with the appropriate self-regulatory organization to determine if a particular rule violation has been designated as
“minor” for these purposes).
MISDEMEANOR – For jurisdictions that do not differentiate between a felony and a misdemeanor, a misdemeanor is
an offense punishable by a sentence of less than one year imprisonment and/or a fine of less than $1,000. The term
also includes a special court martial.
ORDER – A written directive issued pursuant to statutory authority and procedures, including orders of denial,
suspension, or revocation; does not include special stipulations, undertakings or agreements relating to payments,
limitations on activity or other restrictions unless they are included in an order.
PROCEEDING – Includes a formal administrative or civil action initiated by a governmental agency, self-regulatory
organization or a foreign financial regulatory authority; a felony criminal indictment or information (or equivalent formal
charge); or a misdemeanor criminal information (or equivalent formal charge). Does not include other civil litigation,
investigations, or arrests or similar charges effected in the absence of a formal criminal indictment or information (or
equivalent formal charge).

3

Uniform Application for Security-based Swap
Dealer and Major Security-based Swap Participant
Registration

FORM SBSE
Page 1
(Execution Page)

Date:__________

Official Use

SEC Filer No: _________

Failure to keep this form current and to file accurate supplementary information on a timely basis, or the failure to keep accurate
WARNING: books and records or otherwise to comply with the provisions of law applying to the conduct of business as an SBS Entity, would
violate the Federal securities laws and may result in disciplinary, administrative, injunctive or criminal action.
INTENTIONAL MISSTATEMENTS OR OMISSIONS OF FACTS MAY CONSTITUTE FEDERAL CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.
See 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a)

[ ] APPLICATION
1.

[ ] AMENDMENT

Exact name, principal business address, mailing address, if different, and telephone number of the applicant:
A. Full name of the applicant:
B. Tax Identification No.:
C. (1)

Applicant’s UIC # (if any):

Applicant’s CIK # (if any):

The business name under which the applicant primarily conducts business, if different from 1A.

(2)

List on Schedule D, Page 1, Section I any other name by which the applicant conducts business and where it
is used.
D. If this filing makes a name change on behalf of an applicant, enter the new name and specify whether the change is to the
[ ] applicant’s name (1A) or [ ] business name (1C):
Please check above.
E. Applicant’s Main Address: (Do not use a P.O. Box)
Number and Street 1:
City:

State:

Number and Street 2:
Country:

Zip/Postal Code:

Other business locations must be reported on Schedule E. Security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap
participants that do not reside in the United States of America shall designate a U.S. agent for service of process on Schedule F.
F. Mailing Address, if different:
Number and Street 1:
Number and Street 2:
City:

State:

G. Business Telephone Number:
H Website/URL:
I. Contact Employee:
Name:
Telephone Number:

Country:

Zip/Postal Code:

Title:
Email Address:

J. Chief Compliance Officer designated by the applicant in accordance with Exchange Act Section 15F(k):
Name:
Title:
Telephone Number:

Email Address:

EXECUTION:
The applicant consents that service of any civil action brought by or notice of any proceeding before the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the applicant’s security-based swap
activities, unless the applicant is a nonresident SBS Entity, may be given by registered or certified mail or confirmed telegram to the applicant’s contact employee at the main address, or mailing address
if different, given in Items 1E and 1F. If the applicant is a nonresident SBS Entity, it must complete Schedule F to designate a U.S. agent for service of process.
The undersigned certifies that he/she has executed this form on behalf of, and with the authority of, said applicant. The undersigned and applicant represent that the information and statements
contained herein, including schedules attached hereto, and other information filed herewith are current, true and complete. The undersigned and applicant further represent that to the extent any
information previously submitted is not amended such information is currently accurate and complete.

Date (MM/DD/YYYY)

Name of Applicant

By:
Signature

Name and Title of Person Signing on Applicant’s behalf
This page must always be completed in full.
DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE – FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Official
Use
Only

FORM SBSE
Page 2
2.

3.

Date:__________

Official
Use
Only

Official Use

Applicant Name: _____________________________________
SEC Filer No: __________

A.

The applicant is registering as a security-based swap dealer:

B.

The applicant is registering as a major security-based swap participant:
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
Because it: (check all that apply)
[ ] maintains a substantial security-based swap position
[ ] has substantial counterparty exposure
[ ] is highly leveraged relative to its capital position

A.

Is the applicant a foreign security-based swap dealer that intends to:
• work with the Commission and its primary regulator to have the Commission determine whether the
requirements of its primary regulator’s regulatory system are comparable to the Commission’s [ ] Yes [ ] No
• avail itself of a previously granted substituted compliance determination
[ ] Yes [ ] No
with respect to the requirements of Section 15F of the Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations
thereunder?

B.

If “yes” to either of the questions in Item 3.A. above, identify the foreign financial regulatory authority that serves
as the applicant’s primary regulator and for which the Commission has made, or may make, a substituted
compliance determination:
____________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________.

C.

If the applicant is relying on a previously granted substituted compliance determination, please describe how the
applicant satisfies any conditions the Commission may have placed on such substituted compliance
determination:
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________.

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

4.

Does the applicant intend to compute capital or margin, or price customer or proprietary positions, using mathematical
models?
[ ] Yes
[ ] No

5.

Is the applicant subject to regulation by a prudential regulator, as defined in Section 1a(39) of the Commodity Exchange
Act.
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
If “yes,” identify the prudential regulator: ____________________________.

6.

Is the applicant a U.S. branch of a non-resident entity?
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
If “yes,” identify the non-resident entity and its location:
________________________________________________________________________________________________.

7.

Briefly describe the applicant’s business: ______________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
A.
Indicate legal status of the applicant:

8.

[ ] Corporation

[ ] Limited Liability Company

[ ] Other (specify)

[ ] Partnership
B.
C.

Month applicant's fiscal year ends:
Indicate date and place applicant obtained its legal status (i.e., state or country where incorporated, where
partnership agreement was filed, or where applicant entity was formed):
State of formation:

Country of formation:

Date of formation: MM/DD/YYYY

Schedule A and, if applicable, Schedule B must be completed as part of all initial applications.
9.

Is the applicant at the time of this filing succeeding to the business of a currently registered SBS Entity? YES NO
If “Yes,” complete appropriate items on Schedule D, Page 1, Section III.
[ ] [ ]

10.

Does the applicant hold or maintain any funds or securities to collateralize counterparty transactions?

[ ]

[ ]

FORM SBSE
Page 3
11.

Date:__________

Official
Use
Only

Official Use

SEC Filer No: __________

Does the applicant have any arrangement:

YES NO

A.

With any other person, firm, or organization under which any books or records of the applicant are
kept, maintained, or audited by such other person, firm or organization?

[ ]

[ ]

B.

Under which any other person, firm or organization executes, trades, custodies, clears or settles on
behalf of the applicant (including any SRO or swap execution facility in which the applicant is a
member)?
If “Yes” to any part of Item 11, complete appropriate items on Schedule D, Page 1, Section IV.

[ ]

[ ]

12.

13.

Applicant Name: _____________________________________

Does any person directly or indirectly:
A.

Control the management or policies of the applicant through agreement or otherwise?

[ ]

[ ]

B.

Wholly or partially finance the business of the applicant?
Do not answer “Yes” to 12B if the person finances the business of the applicant through: 1) a public
offering of securities made pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933; or 2) credit extended in the ordinary
course of business by suppliers, banks, and others.
If “Yes” to any part of Item 12, complete appropriate items on Schedule D, Page 1, Section IV.

[ ]

[ ]

A.

Directly or indirectly, does the applicant control, is the applicant controlled by, or is the applicant under
common control with, any partnership, corporation, or other organization that is engaged in the
securities or investment advisory business?
If “Yes” to item 13A, complete appropriate items on Schedule D, Page 2, Section V.

[ ]

[ ]

B.

Directly or indirectly, is applicant controlled by any bank holding company or does applicant control, is
applicant controlled by, or is applicant under common control with any bank (as defined in 15 U.S.C.
78c(a)(6)) or any foreign bank?
If “Yes” to item 13B, complete appropriate items on Schedule D, Page 3, Section VI.

[ ]

[ ]

(1) Been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo contendere (“no contest”) in a domestic, foreign or military
court to any felony?

[ ]

[ ]

(2) Been charged with a felony

[ ]

[ ]

(1) Been convicted of or pled guilty or or nolo contendere (“no contest”) in a domestic, foreign or military [ ]
court to a misdemeanor involving: investments or an investment-related business, or any fraud,
false statements or omissions, wrongful taking of property, bribery, perjury, forgery, counterfeiting,
extortion, or a conspiracy to commit any of these offenses?

[ ]

(2) Been charged with a misdemeanor specified in 14B(1)?

[ ]

CRIMINAL DISCLOSURE

14. Use the appropriate DRP for providing details to “yes” answers to the questions in Item 14. Refer to the
Explanation of Terms section of Form SBSE Instructions for explanations of italicized terms.
A. In the past ten years has the applicant or a control affiliate:

B. In the past ten years has the applicant or a control affiliate:

2

[ ]

FORM SBSE
Page 4

Applicant Name: _____________________________________
Date:__________

SEC Filer No: __________

REGULATORY ACTION DISCLOSURE

C. Has the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
ever:

YES NO

(1) Found the applicant or a control affiliate to have made a false statement or omission?

[ ]

[ ]

(2) Found the applicant or a control affiliate to have been involved in a violation of its regulations or
statutes?

[ ]

[ ]

(3) Found the applicant or a control affiliate to have been a cause of an investment-related business
having its authorization to do business denied, revoked, or restricted?

[ ]

[ ]

(4) Entered an order against the applicant or a control affiliate in connection with investment-related
activity?

[ ]

[ ]

(5) Imposed a civil money penalty on the applicant or a control affiliate, or ordered the applicant or a
control affiliate to cease and desist from any activity?

[ ]

[ ]

(1) Ever found the applicant or a control affiliate to have made a false statement or omission or been
dishonest, unfair, or unethical?

[ ]

[ ]

(2) Ever found the applicant or a control affiliate to have been involved in a violation of investmentrelated regulations or statutes?

[ ]

[ ]

(3) Ever found the applicant or a control affiliate to have been a cause of an investment-related
business having its authorization to do business denied, suspended, revoked or restricted?

[ ]

[ ]

(4) In the past ten years, entered an order against the applicant or a control affiliate in connection with
an investment-related activity?

[ ]

[ ]

(5) Ever denied, suspended, or revoked the applicant’s or a control affiliate’s registration or license or
otherwise, by order, prevented it from associating with an investment-related business or restricted
its activities?

[ ]

[ ]

(1) found the applicant or a control affiliate to have made a false statement or omission?

[ ]

[ ]

(2) found the applicant or a control affiliate to have been involved in a violation of its rules (other than a
violation designated as a “minor rule violation” under a plan approved by the U.S. Securities and
exchange Commission)?

[ ]

[ ]

(3) found the applicant or a control affiliate to have been the cause of an investment-related business
having its authorization to do business denied, suspended, revoked or restricted?

[ ]

[ ]

(4) Disciplined the applicant or a control affiliate by expelling or suspending it from membership, barring
or suspending its association with other members, or otherwise restricting its activities?

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

(a) In the past ten years, enjoined the applicant or a control affiliate in connection with any
investment-related activity?

[ ]

[ ]

(b) Ever found that the applicant or a control affiliate was involved in a violation of investmentrelated statutes or regulations?

[ ]

[ ]

(c) Ever dismissed, pursuant to a settlement agreement, an investment-related civil judicial action
brought against the applicant or control affiliate by a state or foreign financial regulatory
authority?

[ ]

[ ]

(2) Is the applicant or a control affiliate now the subject of any civil judicial proceeding that could result
in a “yes” answer to any part of 14H(1)?

[ ]

[ ]

D. Has any other federal regulatory agency, state regulatory agency, or foreign financial regulatory
authority:

E. Has any self-regulatory organization:

F. Has the applicant’s or a control affiliate’s authorization to act as an attorney, accountant, or federal
contractor ever been revoked or suspended?
G. Is the applicant or a control affiliate now the subject of any regulatory proceeding that could result in a
“yes” answer to any part of 14C, D, or E?
H. (1) Has any domestic or foreign civil judicial court:
CIVIL JUDICIAL DISCLOSURE

Official
Use
Only

Official Use

3

FORM SBSE
Page 5
FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE

I.

Applicant Name: _____________________________________
Date:__________

Official
Use
Only

Official Use

SEC Filer No: __________

In the past ten years has the applicant or a control affiliate ever been a securities firm or a futures firm, YES NO
or a control affiliate of a securities firm or a futures firm that:
(1) Has been the subject of a bankruptcy petition?

[ ]

[ ]

(2) Has had a trustee appointed or a direct payment procedure initiated under the Securities Investor
Protection Act?

[ ]

[ ]

15.

Is the applicant registered with the Commission as an investment adviser or municipal securities
advisor or with the CFTC as a commodity trading adviser?
If “yes,” provide all unique identification numbers assigned to the firm relating to this business on
Schedule D, Page 1, Section II.

[ ]

[ ]

16. A.

Does applicant effect transactions in commodity futures, commodities or commodity options as a broker [ ]
for others or as a dealer for its own account?
If “yes,” provide all unique identification numbers assigned to the firm relating to this business on
Schedule D, Page 1, Section II.

[ ]

Does applicant engage in any other investment-related, non-securities business?
If “yes,” provide all unique identification numbers assigned to the firm relating to this business and
describe each other business briefly on Schedule D, Page 1, Section II.

[ ]

[ ]

Is the applicant registered with a foreign financial regulatory authority?
If “yes,” list all such registrations on Schedule F, Page 1, Section II.

[ ]

[ ]

B.

17.

4

Schedule A of FORM
SBSE
DIRECT OWNERS AND
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
(Answer for Form SBSE Item 8)

Official Use
Applicant Name: ___________________________________
Date:__________

SEC Filer No: __________

1.

Use Schedule A to provide information on the direct owners and executive officers of the applicant. Use Schedule B to provide
information on indirect owners. Complete each column.

2.

List below the names of:
(a) Each Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operations Officer, Chief Legal Officer, Chief Compliance Officer,
Director, and individuals with similar status or function;
(b) In the case of an applicant that is a corporation, each shareholder that directly owns 5% or more of a class of a voting security of the
applicant, unless the applicant is a public reporting company (a company subject to Sections 12 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934).
Direct owners include any person that owns, beneficially owns, has the right to vote, or has the power to sell or direct the sale of, 5%
or more of a class of a voting security of the applicant. For purposes of this Schedule, a person beneficially owns any securities (i)
owned by his/her child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-inlaw, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, sharing the same residence, or (ii) that he/she has the right to acquire, within 60
days, through the exercise of any option, warrant or right to purchase the security.
(c) In the case of an applicant that is a partnership, all general partners, and those limited and special partners that have the right to
receive upon dissolution, or have contributed, 5% or more of the partnership’s capital; and
(d) In the case of a trust that directly owns 5% or more of a class of a voting security of the applicant, or that has the right to receive
upon dissolution, or has contributed, 5% or more of the applicant’s capital, the trust and each trustee.
(e) In the case of an applicant that is a Limited Liability Company (“LLC”), (i) those members that have the right to receive upon
dissolution, or have contributed, 5% or more of the LLC’s capital, and (ii) if managed by elected managers, all elected managers.

3.

Are there any indirect owners of the applicant required to be reported on Schedule B?

4.

In the “DE/FE/I” column, enter “DE” if the owner is a domestic entity, or enter “FE” if owner is an entity incorporated or domiciled in a
foreign country, or enter “I” if the owner is an individual.

5.

Complete the “Title or Status” column by entering board/management titles; status as partner, trustee, sole proprietor, or shareholder;
and for shareholders, the class of securities owned (if more than one is issued).

6.

Ownership Codes are:
NA - less than 5%
A - 5% but less than 10%

7.

B - 10% but less than 25% D C - 25% but less than 50% E -

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

50% but less than 75%
75% or more

(a) In the “Control Person” column, enter “Yes” if person has control as defined in the instructions to this form, and enter “No” if the
person does not have control. Note that under this definition most executive officers and all 25% owners, general partners, and
trustees would be “control persons”.
(b) In the “PR “ column, enter “PR” if the owner is a public reporting company under Sections 12 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934.

FULL LEGAL NAME
(Individuals: Last Name, First Name, Middle Name)

DE/FE/I

Title or Status

Ownership
Date Title or
Status Acquired
Code
MM

YYYY

Control
Person
PR

CRD and/or IARD
No. and/or foreign
business No. If
None, IRS Tax No.

UIC, if any.

Official
Use
Only

For individuals not presently registered through CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

For individuals not presently registered through CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

For individuals not presently registered through CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service)

For individuals not presently registered through CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

Official Use

Schedule B of FORM
SBSE

Applicant Name: _________________________________

Date:__________
SEC Filer No: __________
INDIRECT OWNERS
(Answer for Form SBSE Item 8)
1. Use Schedule B to provide information on the indirect owners of the applicant. Use Schedule A to provide information
on direct owners. Complete each column.

2.

With respect to each owner listed on Schedule A, (except individual owners), list below:
(a) In the case of an owner that is a corporation, each of its shareholders that beneficially owns, has the right to vote, or
has the power to sell or direct the sale of, 25% or more of a class of a voting security of that corporation.
For purposes of this Schedule, a person beneficially owns any securities (i) owned by his/her child, stepchild,
grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-inlaw, brother-in-law, or sister-in-law, sharing the same residence, or (ii) that he/she has the right to acquire, within 60
days, through the exercise of any option, warrant or right to purchase the security.
(b) In the case of an owner that is a partnership, all general partners, and those limited and special partners that have
the right to receive upon dissolution, or have contributed, 25% or more of the partnership’s capital; and
(c) In the case of an owner that is a trust, the trust and each trustee.
(d) In the case of an owner that is a Limited Liability Company (“LLC”), (i) those members that have the right to receive
upon dissolution, or have contributed, 25% or more of the LLC’s capital, and (ii) if managed by elected managers, all
elected managers.

3.

Continue up the chain of ownership listing all 25% owners at each level. Once a public company (a company subject to
Sections 12 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) is reached, no ownership information further up the chain
of ownership need be given.

4.

In the “DE/FE/I” column, enter “DE” if the owner is a domestic entity, or enter “FE” if owner is an entity incorporated or
domiciled in a foreign country, or enter “I” if the owner is an individual.

5.

Complete the “Status” column by status as partner, trustee, shareholder, etc., and if shareholder, class of securities
owned (if more than one is issued).

6.

Ownership Codes are:
C - 25% but less than 50%

7.

D - 50% but less than 75%

E - 75% or more

F - Other General Partners

(a) In the “Control Person” column, enter “Yes” if person has control as defined in the instructions to this form, and enter
“No” if the person does not have control. Note that under this definition most executive officers and all 25% owners,
general partners, and trustees would be “control persons”.
(b) In the “PR” column, enter “PR” if the owner is a public reporting company under Sections 12 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

FULL LEGAL NAME
(Individuals: Last Name, First Name, Middle
Name)

DE/FE/I

Entity in Which Interest
is Owned

Status

Date Title or Ownership
Status Acquired
Code
MM

YYYY

Control
Person
PR

CRD and/or IARD
No. and/or foreign
business No. If
None, IRS Tax No.

UIC, if any.

Official
Use
Only

Schedule C of FORM
SBSE
LIST OF 15Fb6-1 ENTITIES

Applicant Name: _________________________________
Date:__________

Official Use

SEC Filer No: __________

Each applicant shall use Schedule C to identify each person associated with it, as of the date it files an
application to register with the Commission, that is not a natural person and that is subject to statutory
disqualification (as described in Exchange Act Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F)) that the security-based swap
dealer or security-based swap participant permits to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on
its behalf pursuant to Rule 15Fb6-1.

NAME
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Official Use
Only

Schedule D of FORM
SBSE
Page 1

Official Use
Applicant Name: _____________________________________
Date:__________

SEC Filer No: __________

Use Schedule D Page 1 to report details for items listed below.
This is an [ ] INITIAL
[ ] AMENDED detail filing for the Form SBSE items checked below:

Section I

Other Business Names

(Check if applicable) [ ] Item 1C(2)

List each of the “other” names and the state(s) or country(ies) in which they are used.
1. Name

State/Country

2. Name

State/Country

3. Name

State/Country

4. Name

State/Country

Section II

Other Business

(Check if applicable) [ ] Item 15
[ ] Item 16A [ ] Item 16B
Applicant must complete a separate Schedule D Page 1 for each affirmative response in this section.
Unique Identification Number(s):

Assigning Regulator(s)/Entity(s):

Briefly describe any other investment-related, non-securities business. Use reverse side of this sheet for additional comments if necessary.

Section III

Successions

(Check if applicable) [ ] Item 9
Date of Succession

MM DD YYYY

/
IRS Employer Number (if any)

Name of Predecessor

/
SEC File Number (if any)

UIC Number (if any)

Briefly describe details of the succession including any assets or liabilities not assumed by the successor. Use reverse side of this sheet for additional
comments if necessary.

Section IV

Record Maintenance Arrangements / Business Arrangements / Control Persons / Financings

[ ] Item 11A
[ ] Item 11B
[ ] Item 12A
[ ] Item 12B
Applicant must complete a separate Schedule D Page 1 for each affirmative response in this section including any
multiple responses to any item. Complete the “Effective Date” box with the Month, Day and Year that the arrangement
or agreement became effective. When reporting a change or termination of an arrangement, enter the effective date of
the change.

(Check one)

Firm or Organization Name

SEC File, CRD, NFA, IARD, UIC, foreign business No.,
and/or CIK Number (if any)

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4 Postal Code)

Effective Date
MM DD YYYY

Individual Name

CRD, NFA, and/or IARD Number (if any)

Business Address (if applicable) (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4 Postal Code)

Effective Date
MM DD YYYY

/

/

/

/

Termination Date
MM DD YYYY

/

/

Termination Date
MM DD YYYY

/

/

Briefly describe the nature of the arrangement with respect to books or records (ITEM 11A); the nature of the execution, trading, custody, clearing or
settlement arrangement (ITEM 11B);the nature of the control or agreement (ITEM 12A); or the method and amount of financing (ITEM 12B). Use reverse
side of this sheet for additional comments if necessary.

For ITEM 12A ONLY - If the control person is an individual not presently registered through CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience
(e.g., for each prior position - employer, job title, and dates of service).

Official
Use
Only

Schedule D of FORM
SBSE

Applicant Name: _____________________________________
Date:__________

Official Use

SEC Filer No: __________

Page 2
Use this Schedule D Page 2 to report details for Item 13A. Supply details for all partnerships, corporations,
organizations, institutions and individuals necessary to answer each item completely. Use additional copies of
Schedule D Page 2 if necessary.
Use the “Effective Date” box to enter the Month, Day, and Year that the affiliation was effective or the date of the most
recent change in the affiliation.
This is an

[ ] INITIAL

[ ] AMENDED detail filing for Form SBSE Item 13A

[ ] 13A. Directly or indirectly, does applicant control, is applicant controlled by, or is applicant under common control
with, any partnership, corporation, or other organization that is engaged in the securities or investment
advisory business?

Section V

Complete this section for control issues relating to ITEM 13A only.

The details supplied relate to:
1.

Partnership, Corporation, or Organization Name

CRD Number (if any)

UIC Number (if any)

(check only one)
This Partnership, Corporation, or Organization

[ ] controls applicant

[ ] is controlled by applicant

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code)

[ ] is under common control with applicant
Termination Date
MM DD YYYY
/
/

Effective Date
MM DD YYYY
/

Is Partnership, Corporation or
Organization a foreign entity”
[ ] Yes

If Yes, provide country of domicile
or incorporation”

[ ] No

Check “Yes” or “No” for
activities of this partnership
Corporation, or organization:

►

/

Securities [ ] Yes [ ] No
Activities:

Investment
Advisory [ ] Yes [ ] No
Activities:

Briefly describe the control relationship. Use reverse side of this sheet for additional comments if necessary.

2.

Partnership, Corporation, or Organization Name

CRD Number (if any)

UIC Number (if any)

(check only one)
This Partnership, Corporation, or Organization

[ ] controls applicant

[ ] is controlled by applicant

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code)

[ ] is under common control with applicant
Termination Date
MM DD YYYY
/
/

Effective Date
MM DD YYYY
/

Is Partnership, Corporation or
Organization a foreign entity”
[ ] Yes

If Yes, provide country of domicile
or incorporation”

[ ] No

Check “Yes” or “No” for
activities of this partnership
Corporation, or organization:

►

/

Securities [ ] Yes [ ] No
Activities:

Investment
Advisory [ ] Yes [ ] No
Activities:

Briefly describe the control relationship. Use reverse side of this sheet for additional comments if necessary.

3.

Partnership, Corporation, or Organization Name

CRD Number (if any)

UIC Number (if any)

(check only one)
This Partnership, Corporation, or Organization

[ ] controls applicant

[ ] is controlled by applicant

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code)

[ ] is under common control with applicant
Effective Date
MM DD YYYY
/

Is Partnership, Corporation or
Organization a foreign entity”
[ ] Yes

[ ] No

If Yes, provide country of domicile
or incorporation”

Check “Yes” or “No” for
activities of this partnership
Corporation, or organization:

►

/

Securities [ ] Yes [ ] No
Activities:

Briefly describe the control relationship. Use reverse side of this sheet for additional comments if necessary.

If applicant has more than 3 organizations to report, complete additional Schedule D Page 2s.

Termination Date
MM DD YYYY
/
/
Investment
Advisory [ ] Yes [ ] No
Activities:

Official
Use
Only

Schedule D of FORM
SBSE

Official Use

Applicant Name: _____________________________________
Date:__________

SEC Filer No: __________

Page 3
Use Schedule D Page 3 to report details for Item 13B. Report only new information or changes/updates to previously
submitted details. Do not report previously submitted information. Supply details for all partnerships, corporations,
organizations, institutions and individuals necessary to answer each item completely. Use additional copies of Schedule D
Page 3 if necessary.
Use the “Effective Date” box to enter the Month, Day, and Year that the affiliation was effective or the date of the most recent
change in the affiliation.
This is an

[ ] INITIAL

[ ] AMENDED detail filing for Form SBSE Item 13B

[ ] 13B. Directly or indirectly, is applicant controlled by any bank holding company or does applicant control, is applicant
controlled by, or is applicant under common control with any bank (as defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(6)) or any foreign bank?

Section VI

Complete this section for control issues relating to ITEM 13B only.

Provide the details for each organization or institution that controls the applicant, including each organization or institution in
the applicant’s chain of ownership. The details supplied relate to:

1.

Financial Institution Name

CRD Number (if applicable)

Institution Type (e.g., bank holding company, national bank, state member bank of the
Federal Reserve System, state non-member bank, savings bank or association, credit
union, foreign bank.)

Effective Date

UIC Number (if any)
MM DD YYYY

/
Termination Date

MM DD YYYY

/
Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code

/
/

If foreign, country of domicile or incorporation

Briefly describe the control relationship. Use reverse side of this sheet for additional comments, if necessary.

2.

Financial Institution Name

CRD Number (if applicable)

Institution Type (e.g., bank holding company, national bank, state member bank of the
Federal Reserve System, state non-member bank, savings bank or association, credit
union, foreign bank.)

Effective Date

UIC Number (if any)
MM DD YYYY

/
Termination Date

MM DD YYYY

/
Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code

/
/

If foreign, country of domicile or incorporation

Briefly describe the control relationship. Use reverse side of this sheet for additional comments, if necessary.

3.

Financial Institution Name

CRD Number (if applicable)

Institution Type (e.g., bank holding company, national bank, state member bank of the
Federal Reserve System, state non-member bank, savings bank or association, credit
union, foreign bank.)

UIC Number (if any)

Effective Date

MM DD YYYY

Termination Date

MM DD YYYY

/
/

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code

/
/

If foreign, country of domicile or incorporation

Briefly describe the control relationship. Use reverse side of this sheet for additional comments, if necessary.

4.

Financial Institution Name

CRD Number (if applicable)

Institution Type (e.g., bank holding company, national bank, state member bank of the
Federal Reserve System, state non-member bank, savings bank or association, credit
union, foreign bank.)

UIC Number (if any)

Effective Date

MM DD YYYY

Termination Date

MM DD YYYY

/
/

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code

/
/

If foreign, country of domicile or incorporation

Briefly describe the control relationship. Use reverse side of this sheet for additional comments, if necessary.

If applicant has more than 4 organizations/institutions to report, complete additional Schedule D page 3s.

Official
Use
Only

Schedule E of FORM
SBSE
Page 1

Official Use
Applicant Name: _____________________________________
Date:__________

SEC Filer No: __________

INSTRUCTIONS
General: Use this schedule to identify other business locations of the applicant. Repeat Items 1-6 for each other business location. Each item
must be completed unless otherwise noted. Use additional copies of this schedule as necessary.
Specific:
Item 1. Specify only one box. Check “Add” when the applicant is filing the initial notice to inform the Commission that it has opened another
business location, “Delete’’ when the applicant closes another business location, and “Amendment” to indicate any other change to
previously filed information.
Item 2. Complete this item for all entries. Provide the date that the other business location was opened (ADD), closed (DELETE), or the
effective date of the change (AMENDMENT).
Item 3. Complete this item for all entries. A physical location must be included; post office box designations alone are not sufficient.
Item 4. Complete this item only when the applicant changes the address of an existing other business location.
Item 5. If the other business location occupies or shares space on premises within a bank, or other financial institution, enter the name of the
institution in the space provided.
Item 6. Complete this item for all entries. Enter the name of the associated person who is responsible for the operations of, and is physically
at, this location.

1.

Check only one box:

[ ] Add

[ ] Delete

[ ] Amendment

2.

Effective Date:

3.

Street:

P.O. Box (if applicable), Suite, Floor:

P.O. Box (if applicable), Suite, Floor:

City, State/Country, Zip Code +4/Postal Code:

4.

City, State/Country, Zip Code +4/Postal Code:

[ ] Add

Street:

5.

Institution Name:

6.

Responsible Associated Person:

1.

Check only one box:

[ ] Delete

[ ] Amendment

2.

Effective Date:

3.

Street:

P.O. Box (if applicable), Suite, Floor:

P.O. Box (if applicable), Suite, Floor:

City, State/Country, Zip Code +4/Postal Code:

4.

City, State/Country, Zip Code +4/Postal Code:

[ ] Add

Street:

5.

Institution Name:

6.

Responsible Associated Person:

1.

Check only one box:

[ ] Delete

2.

Effective Date:

3.

Street:

P.O. Box (if applicable), Suite, Floor:

P.O. Box (if applicable), Suite, Floor:

City, State/Country, Zip Code +4/Postal Code:

City, State/Country, Zip Code +4/Postal Code:

[ ] Amendment
4.

Street:

5.

Institution Name:

6.

Responsible Associated Person:

Schedule F of FORM
SBSE
Page 1

Section I

Applicant Name:
_________________________________
Date:__________
No: __________

Official Use

SEC Filer

Service of Process and Certification Regarding Access to Records

Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and non-resident security-based swap participant shall use
Section I to identify its United States agent for service of process and the certify that it can, as a matter of
law, and will (1) provide the Commission with prompt access to its books and records, and
(2) submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.
1. Service of Process:
A.

Name of United States person applicant designates and appoints as agent for service of process

B.

Address of United States person applicant designates and appoints as agent for service of process

The above identified agent for service of process may be served any process, pleadings, subpoenas, or
other papers in
(a) any investigation or administrative proceeding conducted by the Commission that relates to the
applicant or about which the applicant may have information; and
(b) any civil or criminal suit or action or proceeding brought against the applicant or to which the applicant
has been joined as defendant or respondent, in any appropriate court in any place subject to the jurisdiction
of any state or of the United States or of any of its territories or possessions or of the District of Columbia,
to enforce the Exchange Act. The applicant has stipulated and agreed that any such suit, action or
administrative proceeding may be commenced by the service of process upon, and that service of an
administrative subpoena shall be effected by service upon the above-named Agent for Service of Process,
and that service as aforesaid shall be taken and held in all courts and administrative tribunals to be valid
and binding as if personal service thereof had been made.

2. Certification regarding access to records:
Applicant can as a matter of law, and will;
(1) provide the Commission with prompt access to its books and records, and
(2) submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.
Applicant must attach to this Form SBSE a copy of the opinion of counsel it is required to obtain in
accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(ii) or (c)(2) of Exchange Act Rule 15Fb2-4, as appropriate
[paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) or (c)(2) of 17 CFR 240.15Fb2-4.
Signature:
Name and Title:
Date:

Section II

Registration with Foreign Financial Regulatory Authorities

Complete this Section for Registration with Foreign Financial Regulatory Authorities relating to ITEM
17. Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant that is registered with a foreign financial
regulatory authority must list on Section II of this Schedule F, for each foreign financial regulatory authority with which it is
registered, the following information:

1. _______________________________________
English Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority

2. _______________________________________
English Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority

3. _______________________________________
English Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority

___________________

__________________

Foreign Registration No. (if any)

English Name of Country:

___________________

__________________

Foreign Registration No. (if any)

English Name of Country:

___________________

__________________

Foreign Registration No. (if any)

English Name of Country:

If applicant has more than 3 Foreign Financial Regulatory Authorities to report, complete additional Schedule F Page 1s.

CRIMINAL DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page [DRP (SBSE)] is an [ ] INITIAL OR [ ] AMENDED response to report details for
affirmative responses to Items 14A and 14B of Form SBSE;
Check [√] item(s) being responded to:
14A. In the past ten years has the applicant or a control affiliate:
[ ] (1) Been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo contendere (“no contest”) in a domestic, foreign or military
court to any felony?
[ ] (2) Been charged with a felony?
14B. In the past ten years has the applicant or a control affiliate:
[ ] (1) Been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo contendere (“no contest”) in a domestic, foreign or military
court to a misdemeanor involving: investments or an investment-related business, or any fraud, false
statements or omissions, wrongful taking of property, bribery, perjury, forgery, counterfeiting, extortion, or a
conspiracy to commit any of these offenses?
[ ] (2) Been charged with a misdemeanor specified in 14B(1)?
Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. An event or proceeding may be reported for more than one person or
entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution Page.
Multiple counts of the same charge arising out of the same event(s) should be reported on the same DRP. Unrelated
criminal actions, including separate cases arising out of the same event, must be reported on separate DRPs. Use this
DRP to report all charges arising out of the same event. One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to the
above items.
If a control affiliate is an individual or organization registered through the CRD, such control affiliate need only complete
Part I of the applicant’s appropriate DRP (SBSE). Details of the event must be submitted on the control affiliate’s
appropriate DRP (BD) or DRP (U-4). If a control affiliate is an individual or organization not registered through the CRD,
provide complete answers to all the items on the applicant’s appropriate DRP (SBSE). The completion of this DRP does
not relieve the control affiliate of its obligation to update its CRD records.
Applicants must attach a copy of each applicable court document (i.e., criminal complaint, information or indictment as well
as judgment of conviction or sentencing documents) if not previously submitted through CRD (as they could be in the case
of a control affiliate registered through CRD). Documents will not be accepted as disclosure in lieu of answering the
questions on this DRP.

PART I
A.

The person(s) or entity(ies) for whom this DRP (SBSE) is being filed is (are):
[ ] The Applicant
[ ] Applicant and one or more control affiliate(s)
[ ] One or more control affiliate(s)
If this DRP is being filed for a control affiliate, give the full name of the control affiliate below (for individuals, Last
name, First name, Middle name).
If the control affiliate is registered with the CRD, provide the CRD number. If not, indicate “non-registered” by
checking the appropriate checkbox.
Name of Applicant
SBSE DRP – CONTROL AFFILIATE
CRD NUMBER

Registered:

UIC NUMBER (if any)

[ ] Yes

This Control Affiliate is

[ ] Firm

[ ] Individual

[ ] No

NAME (For individuals, Last, First, Middle)
[ ] This DRP should be removed from the SBS Entity’s record because the control affiliate(s) are no longer
associated with the SBS Entity.
B.

If the control affiliate is registered through the CRD, has the control affiliate submitted a DRP (with Form U-4) or DRP
(BD) to the CRD System for the event?
If the answer is “Yes,” no other information on this DRP must be provided: If “No,” complete Part II.
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
Note: The completion of this Form does not relieve the control affiliate of its obligation to update its CRD records.

CRIMINAL DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE)
(continuation)

PART II
1.

If charge(s) were brought against an organization over which the applicant or control affiliate exercise(d) control: Enter
organization name, whether or not the organization was an investment-related business and the applicant’s or control
affiliate’s position, title or relationship.
___________________________________________________________________________________________

2.

Formal Charge(s) were brought in: (include name of Federal, Military, State or Foreign Court, Location of Court – City
or County and State or Country, Docket/Case number).
____________________________________________________________________________________________

3.

Event Disclosure Detail (Use this for both organizational and individual charges.)
A.

Date First Charged (MM/DD/YYYY):

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: _________________________________________________________________
B.

Event Disclosure Detail (include Charge(s)/Charge Description(s), and for each charge provide: 1. number of
counts, 2. felony or misdemeanor, 3. plea for each charge, and 4. product type if charge is investment-related):

___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
C.

Current status of the Event?

[ ] Pending

D.

Event Status Date (complete unless status is
Pending) (MM/DD/YYYY):

[ ] On Appeal

[ ] Final
[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: _________________________________________________________________
Disposition Disclosure Detail: Include for each charge, A. Disposition Type [e.g., convicted, acquitted, dismissed,
pretrial.], B. Date, C. Sentence/Penalty, D. Duration [if sentence-suspension, probation, etc.], E. Start Date of Penalty,
F. Penalty/Fine Amount and G. Date Paid.
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
5.

Provide a brief summary of the circumstances leading to the charge(s) as well as the disposition. Include the relevant
dates when the conduct which was the subject of the charge(s) occurred. (The information must fit within the space
provided.)
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

REGULATORY ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page [DRP (SBSE)] is an [ ] INITIAL OR [ ] AMENDED response to report details for affirmative
responses to Items 14C, 14D, 14E, 14F, or 14G of Form SBSE;
Check [√] item(s) being responded to:
14C. Has the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ever:
[ ] (1) Found the applicant or a control affiliate to have made a false statement or omission?
[ ] (2) Found the applicant or a control affiliate to have been involved in a violation of its regulations or statutes?
[ ] (3) the applicant or a control affiliate to have been a cause of an investment-related business having its authorization to do business denied, revoked, or
restricted?
[ ] (4) Entered an order against the applicant or a control affiliate in connection with investment-related activity?
[ ] (5) Imposed a civil money penalty on the applicant or a control affiliate, or ordered the applicant or a control affiliate to cease and desist from any activity?
14D. Has any other federal regulatory agency, state regulatory agency, or foreign financial regulatory authority:
[ ] (1) Ever found the applicant or a control affiliate to have made a false statement or omission or been dishonest, unfair, or unethical?
[ ] (2) Ever found the applicant or a control affiliate to have been involved in a violation of investment-related regulations or statutes?
[ ] (3) Ever found the applicant or a control affiliate to have been a cause of an investment-related business having its authorization to do business denied,
suspended, revoked or restricted?
[ ] (4) In the past ten years, entered an order against the applicant or a control affiliate in connection with an investment-related activity?
[ ] (5) Ever denied, suspended, or revoked the applicant’s or a control affiliate’s registration or license or otherwise, by order, prevented it from associating with an
investment-related business or restricted its activities?
14E. Has any self-regulatory organization or commodities exchange ever:
[ ] (1) found the applicant or a control affiliate to have made a false statement or omission?
[ ] (2) found the applicant or a control affiliate to have been involved in a violation of its rules (other than a violation designated as a “minor rule violation” under a plan
approved by the U.S. Securities and exchange Commission)?
[ ] (3) found the applicant or a control affiliate to have been the cause of an investment-related business having its authorization to do business denied, suspended,
revoked or restricted?
[ ] (4) Disciplined the applicant or a control affiliate by expelling or suspending it from membership, barring or suspending its association with other members, or
otherwise restricting its activities?
14F. [ ] Has the applicant’s or a control affiliate’s authorization to act as an attorney, accountant, or federal contractor ever been revoked or suspended?
14G. [ ] Is the applicant or a control affiliate now the subject of any regulatory proceeding that could result in a “yes” answer to any part of 14C, D, or E?

Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. An event or proceeding may be reported for more than one person or entity using one
DRP. File with a completed Execution Page.
One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Items 14C, 14D, 14E, 14F or 14G. Use only one DRP to report details related to
the same event. If an event gives rise to actions by more than one regulator, provide details for each action on a separate DRP.
It is not a requirement that documents be provided for each event or proceeding. Should they be provided, they will not be accepted as
disclosure in lieu of answering the questions on this DRP.
If a control affiliate is an individual or organization registered through the CRD, such control affiliate need only complete Part I of the
applicant’s appropriate DRP (SBSE). Details of the event must be submitted on the control affiliate’s appropriate DRP (BD) or DRP (U-4). If
a control affiliate is an individual or organization not registered through the CRD, provide complete answers to all the items on the applicant’s
appropriate DRP (SBSE). The completion of this DRP does not relieve the control affiliate of its obligation to update its CRD records.

PART I
A.

The person(s) or entity(ies) for whom this DRP is being filed is (are):
[ ] The Applicant
[ ] Applicant and one or more control affiliate(s)
[ ] One or more control affiliate(s)
If this DRP is being filed for a control affiliate, give the full name of the control affiliate below (for individuals, Last name,
First name, Middle name).
If the control affiliate is registered with the CRD, provide the CRD number. If not, indicate “non-registered” by checking
the appropriate checkbox.
Name of Applicant
SBSE DRP – CONTROL AFFILIATE
CRD NUMBER

UIC NUMBER (if any)

This Control Affiliate is

[ ] Firm

[ ] Individual

Registered: [ ] Yes
[ ] No
NAME (For individuals, Last, First, Middle)
[ ] This DRP should be removed from the SBS Entity’s record because the control affiliate(s) are no longer
associated with the SBS Entity.
B.

If the control affiliate is registered through the CRD, has the control affiliate submitted a DRP (with Form U-4) or DRP
(BD) to the CRD System for the event?
If the answer is “Yes,” no other information on this DRP must be provided: If “No,” complete Part II.
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
Note: The completion of this Form does not relieve the control affiliate of its obligation to update its CRD records.

REGULATORY ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE)
(continuation)

PART II
1.

Regulatory Action initiated by:
[ ] SEC
[ ] Other Federal
[ ] State
[ ] SRO
[ ] Foreign
(Full name of regulator, foreign financial regulatory authority, federal, state or SRO)

2.

Principal Sanction: (check appropriate item)
[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]

Civil and Administrative Penalty(ies)/Fine(s)
Bar
Cease and Desist
Censure
Denial

[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]

Disgorgement
Expulsion
Injunction
Prohibition
Reprimand

[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]

Restitution
Revocation
Suspension
Undertaking
Other ____________________

Other Sanctions:
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
3.

3.

Date Initiated (MM/DD/YYYY)

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: __________________________________________________________________
4.

Docket/Case Number:

5.

Control Affiliate Employing Firm when activity occurred which led to the regulatory action (if applicable):

6.

Principal Product Type: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Annuity(ies) - Fixed
[ ] Annuity(ies) – Variable
[ ] Banking Products (other
than CD(s))
[ ] CD(s)
[ ] Commodity Option(s)
[ ] Debt – Asset Backed
[ ] Debt - Corporate
[ ] Debt - Government

[
[
[
[
[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]
]
]
]
]

Debt - Municipal
Derivative(s)
Direct Investment(s) – DPP & LP Interest(s)
Equity - OTC
Equity Listed (Common & Preferred Stock)
Futures - Commodity
Futures - Financial
Index Option(s)
Insurance

[
[
[
[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]
]
]
]

Investment Contract(s)
Money Market Fund(s)
Mutual Fund(s)
No Product
Options
Penny Stock(s)
Unit Investment Trust(s)
Other _________________

Other Product Type:

7.

Describe the allegations related to this regulatory action. (The information must fit within the space provided.):
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

8.

Current Status?

[ ] Pending

[ ] On Appeal

[ ] Final

9.

If on appeal, regulatory action appealed to: (SEC, SRO, Federal or State Court) and Date Appeal Filed:

REGULATORY ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE)
(continuation)
If Final or On Appeal, complete all items below. For Pending Actions, complete Item 13 only.
10.

How was matter resolved: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Acceptance, Waiver & Consent (AWC)
[ ] Decision & Order of Offer of Settlement
[ ] Decision

[ ] Consent
[ ] Dismissed
[ ] Order

[ ] Settled
[ ] Stipulation and Consent
[ ] Vacated

3.

11.

Resolution Date (MM/DD/YYYY)

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation:
12.

A.

Were any of the following Sanctions Ordered? (Check all appropriate items):
[ ] Monetary/Fine
Amount $________

[ ] Revocation/Expulsion/Denial
[ ] Censure

[ ] Disgorgement/Restitution

[ ] Cease and Desist/Injunction

[ ] Bar

[ ] Suspension

B.

Other Sanctions Ordered:

C.

Sanction Detail: If suspended, enjoined or barred, provide duration including start date and capacities affected
(General Securities Principal, Financial Operations Principal, etc.). If requalification, by exam/retraining was a
condition of the sanction, provide length of time given to re-qualify/retrain, type of exam required and whether
condition has been satisfied. If disposition resulted in a fine, penalty, restitution, disgorgement or monetary
compensation, provide total amount, portion levied against applicant or control affiliate, date paid and if any portion
of penalty was waived.

___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
13.

Provide a brief summary of details related to the action status and (or) disposition and include relevant terms,
conditions and dates. (The information must fit within the space provided.)
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

CIVIL JUDICIAL ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page [DRP (SBSE)] is an [ ] INITIAL OR [ ] AMENDED response to report details for
affirmative responses to Items 14H of Form SBSE;
Check [√] item(s) being responded to:
14H(1) Has any domestic or foreign civil judicial court:
[ ] (a) in the past ten years, enjoined the applicant or a control affiliate in connection with any
investment-related activity?
[ ] (b) ever found that the applicant or a control affiliate was involved in a violation of investment-related
statutes or regulations?
[ ] (c) ever dismissed, pursuant to a settlement agreement, an investment-related civil judicial action
brought against the applicant or a control affiliate by a state or foreign financial regulatory
authority?
14H(2) [ ] Is the applicant or a control affiliate now the subject of any civil judicial proceeding that could result
in a “yes” answer to any part of 14H(1)?
Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. An event or proceeding may be reported for more than one person or entity using one
DRP. File with a completed Execution Page.
One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Items 14H. Use only one DRP to report details related to the same event.
Unrelated civil judicial actions must be reported on separate DRPs.
It is not a requirement that documents be provided for each event or proceeding. Should they be provided, they will not be accepted as
disclosure in lieu of answering the questions on this DRP.
If a control affiliate is an individual or organization registered through the CRD, such control affiliate need only complete Part I of the
applicant’s appropriate DRP (SBSE). Details of the event must be submitted on the control affiliate’s appropriate DRP (BD) or DRP (U-4). If
a control affiliate is an individual or organization not registered through the CRD, provide complete answers to all the items on the applicant’s
appropriate DRP (SBSE). The completion of this DRP does not relieve the control affiliate of its obligation to update its CRD records.

PART I
A.

The person(s) or entity(ies) for whom this DRP is being filed is (are):
[ ] The Applicant
[ ] Applicant and one or more control affiliate(s)
[ ] One or more control affiliate(s)
If this DRP is being filed for a control affiliate, give the full name of the control affiliate below (for individuals, Last name,
First name, Middle name).
If the control affiliate is registered with the CRD, provide the CRD number. If not, indicate “non-registered” by checking
the appropriate checkbox.
Name of Applicant
DRP SBSE – CONTROL AFFILIATE
CRD NUMBER

Registered:

UIC NUMBER (if any)

[ ] Yes

This Control Affiliate is

[ ] Firm

[ ] Individual

[ ] No

NAME (For individuals, Last, First, Middle)
[ ] This DRP should be removed from the SBS Entity’s record because the control affiliate(s) are no longer
associated with the SBS Entity.
B.

If the control affiliate is registered through the CRD, has the control affiliate submitted a DRP (with Form U-4) or BD
DRP to the CRD System for the event?
If the answer is “Yes,” no other information on this DRP must be provided: If “No,” complete Part II.
[ ] Yes

[ ] No

Note: The completion of this Form does not relieve the control affiliate of its obligation to update its CRD records.

CIVIL JUDICIAL ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE)
(continuation)

PART II
1.

Court Action initiated by: (Name of regulator, foreign financial regulatory authority, SRO, commodities exchange,
agency, firm, private plaintiff, etc.)

2.

Principal Relief Sought: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Cease and Desist
[ ] Civil Penalty(ies)/Fine(s)

[ ] Disgorgement
[ ] Injunction

[ ] Money Damages (Private/Civil Complaint)
[ ] Restitution

[ ] Restraining Order
[ ] Other __________

Other Relief Sought:
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
3.

3.

Filing Date of Court Action (MM/DD/YYYY)

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: __________________________________________________________________
4.

Principal Product Type: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Annuity(ies) - Fixed
[ ] Annuity(ies) - Variable
[ ] Banking Products (other
than CD(s))
[ ] CD(s)
[ ] Commodity Option(s)
[ ] Debt – Asset Backed
[ ] Debt - Corporate
[ ] Debt - Government

[
[
[
[
[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]
]
]
]
]

Debt - Municipal
Derivative(s)
Direct Investment(s) – DPP & LP Interest(s)
Equity - OTC
Equity Listed (Common & Preferred Stock)
Futures - Commodity
Futures - Financial
Index Option(s)
Insurance

[
[
[
[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]
]
]
]

Investment Contract(s)
Money Market Fund(s)
Mutual Fund(s)
No Product
Options
Penny Stock(s)
Unit Investment Trust(s)
Other _________________

Other Product Type:

5.

Formal Action was brought in (include name of Federal, State or Foreign Court, Location of Court – City or County and
State or Country, Docket/Case Number):

6.

Control Affiliate Employing Firm when activity occurred which led to the civil judicial action (if applicable):

7.

Describe the allegations related to this civil judicial action. (The information must fit within the space provided.):
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

8.

Current Status?

[ ] Pending

[ ] On Appeal

9.

If on appeal, action appealed to (provide name of court):

[ ] Final
Date Appeal Filed (MM/DD/YYYY):

_____________________________________________________________________________________________
10.

If pending, date notice/process was served (MM/DD/YYYY)
If not exact, provide explanation:

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

CIVIL JUDICIAL ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE)
(continuation)
If Final or On Appeal, complete all items below. For Pending Actions, complete Item 14 only.
11.

How was matter resolved: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Consent
[ ] Dismissed

[ ] Judgement Rendered
[ ] Opinion

[ ] Settled
[ ] Withdrawn

[ ] Other _______________________

3.

12.

Resolution Date (MM/DD/YYYY)

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation:
13.

Resolution Detail
A.

Were any of the following Sanctions Ordered or Relief Granted? (Check all appropriate items):
[ ] Monetary/Fine
Amount $________

[ ] Revocation/Expulsion/Denial
[ ] Censure

[ ] Disgorgement/Restitution

[ ] Cease and Desist/Injunction

[ ] Bar

[ ] Suspension

B.

Other Sanctions:

C.

Sanction Detail: If suspended, enjoined or barred, provide duration including start date and capacities affected
(General Securities Principal, Financial Operations Principal, etc.). If requalification, by exam/retraining was a
condition of the sanction, provide length of time given to re-qualify/retrain, type of exam required and whether
condition has been satisfied. If disposition resulted in a fine, penalty, restitution, disgorgement or monetary
compensation, provide total amount, portion levied against applicant or control affiliate, date paid and if any portion
of penalty was waived.

___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
14.

Provide a brief summary of details related to action(s), allegation(s), disposition(s), and/or finding(s) disclosed above.
(The information must fit within the space provided.)
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

BANKRUPTCY / SIPC DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page [DRP (SBSE)] is an an [ ] INITIAL OR [ ] AMENDED response to report details for
affirmative responses to Questions 14I on Form SBSE;
Check [√] item(s) being responded to:
14l In the past ten years has the applicant or a control affiliate of the applicant ever been a securities firm or a
control affiliate of a securities firm that:
[ ] (1) has been the subject of a bankruptcy petition?
[ ] (2) has had a trustee appointed or a direct payment procedure initiated under the Securities Investor
Protection Act?
Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. An event or proceeding may be reported for more than one person or
entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution Page.
It is not a requirement that documents be provided for each event or proceeding. Should they be provided, they will not be
accepted as disclosure in lieu of answering the questions on this DRP.
If a control affiliate is an individual or organization registered through CRD, such control affiliate need only complete Part I
of the applicant’s appropriate DRP (SBSE). Details of the event must be submitted on the control affiliate’s appropriate
DRP (BD) or DRP (U-4). If a control affiliate is an individual or organization not registered through the CRD, provide
complete answers to all the items on the applicant’s appropriate DRP (SBSE). The completion of this DRP does not relieve
the control affiliate of its obligation to update its CRD records.

PART I
A.

The person or entity for whom this DRP (SBSE) is being filed is:
[ ] The Applicant
[ ] Applicant and one or more control affiliate(s)
[ ] One or more control affiliate(s)
If this DRP is being filed for a control affiliate, give the full name of the control affiliate below (for individuals, Last
name, First name, Middle name).
If the control affiliate is registered with the CRD, provide the CRD number. If not, indicate “non-registered” by
checking the appropriate checkbox.
Name of Applicant

BD DRP – CONTROL AFFILIATE
CRD NUMBER

UIC NUMBER (if any)

This Control Affiliate is

[ ] Firm

[ ] Individual

Registered: [ ] Yes
[ ] No
NAME (For individuals, Last, First, Middle)
[ ] This DRP should be removed from the SBS Entity’s record because the control affiliate(s) are no longer
associated with the SBS Entity.
B.

If the control affiliate is registered through the CRD, has the control affiliate submitted a DRP (with Form U-4) or
DRP (BD) to the CRD System for the event?
If the answer is “Yes,” no other information on this DRP must be provided: If “No,” complete Part II.
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
Note: The completion of this Form does not relieve the control affiliate of its obligation to update its CRD records.

PART II
1.

2.

Action Type: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Bankruptcy
[ ] Declaration
[ ] Compromise
[ ] Liquidated

[ ] Receivership
[ ] Other ____________________

Action Date (MM/DD/YYYY) ______________________

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: _____________________________________________________________
(continued)

2

3.

If the financial action relates to an organization over which the applicant or the control affiliate exercise(d) control,
enter organization name and the applicant’s or control affiliate’s position, title or relationship:
________________________________________________________________________________________
Was the Organization investment-related?

4.

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

Court action brought in (Name of Federal, State or Foreign Court), Location of Court (City or County and State or
Country), Docket/Case Number and Bankruptcy Chapter Number (if Federal Bankruptcy Filing):
________________________________________________________________________________________

5.

Is action currently pending?

6.

If not pending, provide Disposition Type: (check appropriate item)

7.

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

[ ] Direct Payment Procedure

[ ] Dismissed

[ ] Satisfied/Released

[ ] Discharged

[ ] Dissolved

[ ] SIPA Trustee Appointed

Disposition Date (MM/DD/YYYY): _______________________

[ ] Exact

[ ] Other _____________
[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: _____________________________________________________________
8.

Provide a brief summary of events leading to the action and if not discharged, explain. (The information must fit
within the space provided.):
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

9.

If a SIPA trustee was appointed or a direct payment procedure was begun, enter the amount paid or agreed to be
paid by you; or the name of the trustee:

Currently open?

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

Date Direct Payment Initiated/Filed or Trustee Appointed (MM/DD/YYYY): __________ [ ] Exact [ ] Explanation
If not exact, provide explanation: _________________________________________________________________
10.

Provide details of any status/disposition. Include details of creditors, terms, conditions, amounts due and settlement
schedule (if applicable). (The information must fit within the space provided.)
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

Form SBSE-A

OMB Approval
OMB Number: .....3235-____
Expires:...... ..Month __, 2018
Estimated average burden hours per
response: . . . . . . . _____.
per amendment: . . . . . _____.

Application for Registration
of Security-based Swap
Dealers and Major Securitybased Swap Participants that
are Registered or Registering
with the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission as a
Swap Dealer or Major Swap
Participant

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

FORM SBSE-A INSTRUCTIONS
A.
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

B.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
FORM - Form SBSE-A is the Application for Registration as either a Security-based Swap Dealer or Major
Security-based Swap Participant (collectively, “SBS Entities”) by an entity that is not registered or registering with
the Commission as a broker-dealer but is registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission (“CFTC”) as a swap dealer or major swap participant. These SBS Entities must file this form and
a legible copy of the Form 7-R they file with the CFTC (or its designee) to register with the Securities and
Exchange Commission. An applicant must also file Schedules A, B, C, D and F, as appropriate. There is no
Schedule E. An entity that is registered or registering with the Commission as a broker-dealer and also is
registered or registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a swap dealer or major
swap participant should file Form SBSE-BD to register with the Commission as an SBS Entity.
ELECTRONIC FILING - This Form SBSE-A must be filed electronically with the Commission through the EDGAR
system, and must utilize the EDGAR Filer Manual (as defined in 17 CFR 232. 11) to file and amend Form SBSEA electronically to assure the timely acceptance and processing of those filings. Additional documents shall be
attached to this electronic application.
UPDATING - By law, the applicant must promptly update Form SBSE-A information by submitting amendments
whenever the information on file becomes inaccurate or incomplete for any reason [17 CFR 240.15Fb2-3]. In
addition, the applicant must update any incomplete or inaccurate information contained on Form SBSE-A prior to
filing a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form SBSE-W [17 CFR 15Fb3-2(a)].
CONTACT EMPLOYEE - The individual listed as the contact employee must be authorized to receive all
compliance information, communications, and mailings, and be responsible for disseminating it within the
applicant's organization.
FEDERAL INFORMATION LAW AND REQUIREMENTS - An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person
is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a currently valid control number.
Sections 15F, 17(a) and 23(a) of the Exchange Act authorize the SEC to collect the information on this form from
registrants. See 15 U.S.C. §§78o-10, 78q and 78w. Filing of this form is mandatory. The principal purpose of this
Form is to permit the Commission to determine whether the applicant meets the statutory requirement to engage
in the security-based swap business. The Commission maintains a file of the information on this form and will
make information collected via the form publicly available. Any member of the public may direct to the
Commission any comments concerning the accuracy of the burden estimate on this Form, and any suggestions
for reducing this burden. This collection of information has been reviewed by the Office of Management and
Budget in accordance with the clearance requirements of 44 U.S.C. §3507. The information contained in this
form is part of a system of records subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. The Securities and Exchange
Commission has published in the Federal Register the Privacy Act Systems of Records Notice for these records.
FILING INSTRUCTIONS
1. FORMAT
a. Items 1-19 and the accompanying Schedules and DRP pages must be answered and all fields requiring a
response must be completed before the filing will be accepted.
b. Failure to follow instructions or properly complete the form may result in the application being delayed or
rejected.
c. Applicant must complete the execution screen certifying that Form SBSE-A and amendments thereto
have been executed properly and that the information contained therein is accurate and complete.
d. To amend information, the applicant must update the appropriate Form SBSE-A screens.
e. A paper copy, with original signatures, of the initial Form SBSE-A filing and amendments to Disclosure
Reporting Pages (DRPs) must be retained by the applicant and be made available for inspection upon a
regulatory request.
2. DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (DRP) – Information concerning a principal that relates to the occurrence
of an event reportable in Schedule D must be provided on the appropriate DRP.

The mailing address for questions and correspondence is:
The Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, DC 20549

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /2011

EXPLANATION OF TERMS
(The following terms are italicized throughout this form.)
1. GENERAL
Terms used in this Form SBSE-A that are defined in the form the CFTC requires that swap dealers and major swap
participants use to apply for registration with the CFTC shall have the same meaning as set forth in that form.
APPLICANT - The security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant applying on or amending this
form.
CONTROL - The power, directly or indirectly, to direct the management or policies of a company, whether through
ownership of securities, by contract, or otherwise. Any person that (i) is a director, general partner or officer exercising
executive responsibility (or having similar status or functions); (ii) directly or indirectly has the right to vote 25% or
more of a class of a voting security or has the power to sell or direct the sale of 25% or more of a class of voting
securities; or (iii) in the case of a partnership, has the right to receive upon dissolution, or has contributed, 25% or
more of the capital, is presumed to control that company.
JURISDICTION - A state, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, or any
subdivision or regulatory body thereof.
SUCCESSOR –The term “successor” is defined to be an unregistered entity that assumes or acquires substantially all
of the assets and liabilities, and that continues the business of, a predecessor security-based swap dealer or major
security-based swap participants that ceases its security-based swap activities. [See Exchange Act Rule 15b2-5 (17
CFR 240.15Fb2-5)]
UNIQUE IDENTIFICATION CODE or UIC – For purposes of Form SBSE-A, the term “unique identification code” or
“UIC” means a unique identification code assigned to a person by an internationally recognized standards-setting
system that is recognized by the Commission [pursuant to Rule 903(a) of Regulation SBSR (17 CFR 242.903(a))].
3. FOR THE PURPOSE OF SCHEDULE D AND THE CORRESPONDING DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGES
(DRPs)
FOREIGN FINANCIAL REGULATORY AUTHORITY - Includes (1) a foreign securities authority; (2) other
governmental body or foreign equivalent of a self-regulatory organization empowered by a foreign government to
administer or enforce its laws relating to the regulation of financial services industry-related activities; and (3) a foreign
membership organization, a function of which is to regulate the participation of its members in the activities listed
above.
FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY-RELATED – Pertaining to securities, commodities, banking, savings association
activities, credit union activities, insurance, or real estate (including, but not limited to, acting as or being associated
with a broker-dealer, municipal securities dealer, government securities broker or dealer, issuer, investment company,
investment adviser, futures sponsor, bank, security-based swap dealer, major security-based swap participant,
savings association, credit union, insurance company, or insurance agency). (This definition is used solely for the
purpose of Form SBSE-A.)
INVOLVED - Doing an act or aiding, abetting, counseling, commanding, inducing, conspiring with or failing reasonably
to supervise another in doing an act.
ORDER - A written directive issued pursuant to statutory authority and procedures, including orders of denial,
suspension, or revocation; does not include special stipulations, undertakings or agreements relating to payments,
limitations on activity or other restrictions unless they are included in an order.
PROCEEDING - Includes a formal administrative or civil action initiated by a governmental agency, self-regulatory
organization or a foreign financial regulatory authority; a felony criminal indictment or information (or equivalent formal
charge); or a misdemeanor criminal information (or equivalent formal charge). Does not include other civil litigation,
investigations, or arrests or similar charges effected in the absence of a formal criminal indictment or information (or
equivalent formal charge).

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

FORM SBSE-A
Page 1
(Execution Page)

Application for Registration as a Security-based
Swap Dealer and Major Security-based Swap
Participant that is Registered or Registering with
the CFTC as a Swap Dealer or Major Swap
Participant

Official Use

Date:__________
Applicant NFA Number: ___________
Failure to keep this form current and to file accurate supplementary information on a timely basis, or the failure to keep
accurate books and records or otherwise to comply with the provisions of law applying to the conduct of business as an
WARNING:
SBS Entity, would violate the Federal securities laws and the laws of the jurisdictions and may result in disciplinary,
administrative, injunctive or criminal action.
INTENTIONAL MISSTATEMENTS OR OMISSIONS OF FACTS MAY CONSTITUTE FEDERAL CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.
See 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a)

[ ] APPLICATION
1.

[ ] AMENDMENT

Exact name, principal business address, mailing address, if different, and telephone number of the applicant:
A. Full name of the applicant:
B. IRS Empl. Ident. No.:
C. Applicant’s NFA ID #:

Applicant’s CIK # (if any):

D. Applicant’s Main Address: (Do not use a P.O. Box)
Number and Street 1:
City:

State:

E. Mailing Address, if different:
Number and Street 1:
State:

F. Business Telephone Number:
G Website/URL:
H. Contact Employee:
Name:

I.

Number and Street 2:
Country:

Zip/Postal Code:

Number and Street 2:

City:

Telephone Number:

Applicant’s UIC # (if any):

Country:

Zip/Postal Code:

Title:
Email Address:

Chief Compliance Officer designated by the applicant in accordance with Exchange Act Section 15F(k):
Name:
Title:
Telephone Number:

Email Address:

EXECUTION:
The applicant consents that service of any civil action brought by or notice of any proceeding before the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the applicant’s security-based swap
activities, unless the applicant is a nonresident SBS Entity , may be given by registered or certified mail or confirmed telegram to the applicant’s contact employee at the main address, or mailing
address if different, given in Items 1E and 1F. If the applicant is a nonresident SBS Entity, it must complete Schedule F to designate a U.S. agent for service of process.
The undersigned certifies that he/she has executed this form on behalf of, and with the authority of, said applicant. The undersigned and applicant represent that the information and statements
contained herein, including schedules attached hereto, and other information filed herewith are current, true and complete. The undersigned and applicant further represent that to the extent any
information previously submitted is not amended such information is currently accurate and complete.

Date (MM/DD/YYYY)

Name of Applicant

By:
Signature

Name and Title of Person Signing on Applicant’s behalf
This page must always be completed in full.
DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE – FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Official
Use
Only

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

FORM SBSE-A
Page 2
2.

3.

Date:__________

Official
Use
Only

Official Use

Applicant Name: _____________________________________
Applicant NFA No.: __________

A.

The applicant is registering as a security-based swap dealer:

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

B.

The applicant is registering as a major security-based swap participant:
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
Because it: (check all that apply)
[ ] maintains a substantial security-based swap position
[ ] has substantial counterparty exposure
[ ] is highly leveraged relative to its capital position

A.

Is the applicant a foreign security-based swap dealer that intends to:
• work with the Commission and its primary regulator to have the Commission determine whether the
requirements of its primary regulator’s regulatory system are comparable to the Commission’s [ ] Yes [ ] No
• avail itself of a previously granted substituted compliance determination
[ ] Yes [ ] No
with respect to the requirements of Section 15F of the Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules and regulations
thereunder?

B.

If “yes” to either of the questions in Item 3.A. above, identify the foreign financial regulatory authority that serves
as the applicant’s primary regulator and for which the Commission has made, or may make, a substituted
compliance determination:
____________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________.

C.

If the applicant is relying on a previously granted substituted compliance determination, please describe how the
applicant satisfies any conditions the Commission may have placed on such substituted compliance
determination:
__________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________.

4.

Does the applicant intend to compute capital or margin, or price customer or proprietary positions, using mathematical
models?
[ ] Yes
[ ] No

5.

A.

The applicant is currently registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a:
[ ] Swap Dealer
[ ] Major Swap Participant

B.

The applicant is registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a:
[ ] Swap Dealer
[ ] Major Swap Participant

6.

Is the applicant a U.S. branch of a non-resident entity?
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
If “yes,” identify the non-resident entity and its location:
________________________________________________________________________________________________.

7.

Briefly describe the applicant’s business: ______________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
_______________________________________________________________________________________________
YES NO
Is the applicant subject to regulation by a prudential regulator, as defined in Section 1a(39) of the
Commodity Exchange Act. If “yes,” identify the prudential regulator: ____________________________. [ ] [ ]

8.
9.

Is the applicant registered with the Commission as an investment adviser?
Applicant’s IARD #: _____________________________________

[ ]

[ ]

10. A.

Is the applicant registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in any capacity other than
as a swap dealer or major swap participant?

[ ]

[ ]

B.

If “yes,” as a:

[ ] Futures Commission Merchant
[ ] Commodity Pool Operator

[ ] Introducing Broker
[ ] Other: ________________________

11.

Does applicant engage in any other non-securities, financial services industry-related business?
If “yes,” describe each other business briefly on Schedule B, Section I.

[ ]

[ ]

12.

Does the applicant hold or maintain any funds or securities to collateralize counterparty transactions?

[ ]

[ ]

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /2011

FORM SBSE-A
Page 3
13.
A.
B.

Applicant Name: _____________________________________
Date:__________

Official
Use
Only

Official Use

Applicant NFA No.: __________

YES NO
Does the applicant have any arrangement:
With any other person, firm, or organization under which any books or records of the applicant are kept,
[ ] [ ]
maintained, or audited by such other person, firm or organization?
Under which such other person, firm or organization executes, trades, custodies, clears or settles on
behalf of the applicant (including any SRO in which the applicant is a member)?
If “yes” to any part of Item 11, complete appropriate items on Schedule B, Section II.

[ ]

[ ]

14.

Does any person directly or indirectly control the management or policies of the applicant through
agreement or otherwise?
If “yes,” complete appropriate item on Schedule B, Section II.

[ ]

[ ]

15.

Does any person directly or indirectly finance (wholly or partially) the business of the applicant?
Do not answer “Yes” to Item 15 if the person finances the business of the applicant through: 1) a public
offering of securities made pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933; or 2) credit extended in the ordinary
course of business by suppliers, banks, and others.
If “yes,” complete appropriate item on Schedule B, Section II.

[ ]

[ ]

16.

Is the applicant at the time of this filing succeeding to the business of a currently registered SBS Entity?
If “yes,” complete appropriate items on Schedule B, Section III.

[ ]

[ ]

17.

Is the applicant registered with a foreign financial regulatory authority?
If “yes,” list all such registrations on Schedule F, Page 1, Section II.

[ ]

[ ]

18.

The applicant has ______ principals who are individuals.
Please list all principals who are individuals on Schedule A.

19.

Does any principal not identified in Item 18 and Schedule A effect, or is any principal not identified in Item 18 and
Schedule A involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the applicant, or will such principals effect or be
involved in effecting such business on the applicant’s behalf?
If “yes,” complete appropriate item on Schedule B, Section IV.

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

Schedule A of FORM
SBSE-A

Official Use
Applicant Name: ___________________________________

PRINCIPALS THAT ARE
Date:__________
INDIVIDUALS
(Answer for Form SBSE-A Item 18)

Applicant NFA No.: __________

Use Schedule A to identify all principals of the applicant who are individuals.
Complete the “Title or Status” column by entering board/management titles; status as partner, trustee, sole proprietor, or
shareholder; and for shareholders, the class of securities owned (if more than one is issued).
Ownership Codes are:
NA less than 5%
A 5% but less than 10%
FULL LEGAL NAME
(Individuals: Last Name, First Name, Middle
Name)

1.

B C Title or Status

10% but less than 25%
25% but less than 50%

D E -

50% but less than 75%
75% or more

Date Title or Date Individual Does person If yes,
have an
Status Acquired began working
include
for applicant
ownership ownership
interest in
code
MM
YYYY
MM
YYYY the applicant

NFA Identification No., CRD No.
and/or IARD No.

Official
Use
Only

Y/N
For individuals not presently registered through NFA, CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

2.

Y/N
For individuals not presently registered through NFA, CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

3.

Y/N
For individuals not presently registered through NFA, CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

4.

Y/N
For individuals not presently registered through NFA, CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

5.

Y/N
For individuals not presently registered through NFA, CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

6.

Y/N
For individuals not presently registered through NFA, CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

7.

Y/N
For individuals not presently registered through NFA, CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

8.

Y/N
For individuals not presently registered through NFA, CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

9.

Y/N
For individuals not presently registered through NFA, CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

10.

Y/N
For individuals not presently registered through NFA, CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior
position - employer, job title, and dates of service):

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

Schedule B of FORM
SBSE-A

Applicant Name: _____________________________________
Date:__________

Official Use

Applicant NFA No.: __________

Page 1
Use this Schedule B to report details for items listed below. Report only new information or changes/updates to
previously submitted details. Do not repeat previously submitted information.
This is an [ ] INITIAL
[ ] AMENDED detail filing for the Form SBSE-A items checked below:

Section I

Other Business

Item 11: Does applicant engage in any other non-securities, financial services industry-related business?
UIC (if any), or other Unique Identification Number(s):

Assigning Regulator(s)/Entity(s):

Briefly describe any other financial services industry-related, non-securities business in which the applicant is engaged:

Section II

Record Maintenance Arrangements / Business Arrangements / Control Persons / Financings

[ ] Item 13A
[ ] Item 13B
[ ] Item 14
[ ] Item 15
Applicant must complete a separate Schedule B Page 1 for each affirmative response in this section including any
multiple responses to any item. Complete the “Effective Date” box with the Month, Day and Year that the arrangement
or agreement became effective. When reporting a change or termination of an arrangement, enter the effective date
of the change.

(Check one)

Firm or Organization Name

SEC File, CRD, NFA, IARD, UIC, and/or CIK Number (if
any)

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4 Postal Code)

Effective Date
MM DD YYYY

Individual Name

CRD, NFA, and/or IARD Number (if any)

Business Address (if applicable) (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4 Postal Code)

Effective Date
MM DD YYYY

/

/

/

/

Termination Date
MM DD YYYY

/

/

Termination Date
MM DD YYYY

/

/

Briefly describe the nature of the arrangement with respect to books or records (ITEM 13A); the nature of the execution, trading, custody, clearing or
settlement arrangement (ITEM 13B); the nature of the control or agreement (ITEM 14); or the method and amount of financing (ITEM 15). Use reverse
side of this sheet for additional comments if necessary.
For ITEM 14 ONLY - If the control person is an individual not presently registered through CRD or IARD, describe prior investment-related experience (e.g., for each prior position
- employer, job title, and dates of service).

Section III

Successions

Item 16: Is the applicant at the time of this filing succeeding to the business of a currently registered SBS Entity?
Date of Succession

MM DD YYYY

/

Name of Predecessor

/

SEC File, CRD, NFA, IARD, UIC, and/or CIK Number (if any)

IRS Employer Number (if any)

Briefly describe details of the succession including any assets or liabilities not assumed by the successor. Use reverse side of this sheet for additional
comments if necessary.

Section IV

Principals Effecting or Involved in Effecting SBS Business

Item 19: Does any principal not identified in Item 18 and Schedule A effect, or is any principal not identified in Item 15
and Schedule A involved in effecting security-based swaps on behalf of the applicant, or will such principals effect or
be involved in effecting such business on the applicant’s behalf?
For each Principal identified in Section IV, complete Schedule D of the Form SBSE-A and the relevant DRP pages.
1.

Name of Principal

Type of Entity (Corp, Partnership,
LLC, etc.)

SEC File No., CRD, NFA, IARD, CIK Number, UIC
(if any), and/or Tax Identification Number

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code)

This entity [ ] effects

[ ] is involved in effecting security based swaps on behalf of the applicant. (check only

one)

Briefly describe the details of the principal’s activities relating to its effecting or involvement in effecting security-based swap transactions on behalf of the
applicant:

Official
Use
Only

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

Schedule B of FORM
SBSE-A

Applicant Name: _____________________________________
Date:__________

Official Use

Applicant NFA No.: __________

Page 2

Section IV, Continued

Principals Effecting or Involved in Effecting SBS Business

For each Principal identified in Section IV, complete Schedule D of the Form SBSE-A and the relevant DRP pages.
2.

Name of Principal

Type of Entity (Corp, Partnership,
LLC, etc.)

SEC File No., CRD, NFA, IARD, CIK Number, UIC
(if any), and/or Tax Identification Number

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code)

This entity [ ] effects

[ ] is involved in effecting security based swaps on behalf of the applicant. (check only one)

Briefly describe the details of the principal’s activities relating to its effecting or involvement in effecting security-based
swap transactions on behalf of the applicant:

3.

Name of Principal

Type of Entity (Corp, Partnership,
LLC, etc.)

SEC File No., CRD, NFA, IARD, CIK Number, UIC
(if any), and/or Tax Identification Number

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code)

This entity [ ] effects

[ ] is involved in effecting security based swaps on behalf of the applicant. (check only one)

Briefly describe the details of the principal’s activities relating to its effecting or involvement in effecting security-based
swap transactions on behalf of the applicant:

4.

Name of Principal

Type of Entity (Corp, Partnership,
LLC, etc.)

SEC File No., CRD, NFA, IARD, CIK Number, UIC
(if any), and/or Tax Identification Number

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code)

This entity [ ] effects

[ ] is involved in effecting security based swaps on behalf of the applicant. (check only one)

Briefly describe the details of the principal’s activities relating to its effecting or involvement in effecting security-based
swap transactions on behalf of the applicant:

5.

Name of Principal

Type of Entity (Corp, Partnership,
LLC, etc.)

SEC File No., CRD, NFA, IARD, CIK Number, UIC
(if any), and/or Tax Identification Number

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code)

This entity [ ] effects

[ ] is involved in effecting security based swaps on behalf of the applicant. (check only one)

Briefly describe the details of the principal’s activities relating to its effecting or involvement in effecting security-based
swap transactions on behalf of the applicant:

6.

Name of Principal

Type of Entity (Corp, Partnership,
LLC, etc.)

SEC File No., CRD, NFA, IARD, CIK Number, UIC
(if any), and/or Tax Identification Number

Business Address (Street, City, State/Country, Zip + 4/Postal Code)

This entity [ ] effects

[ ] is involved in effecting security based swaps on behalf of the applicant. (check only one)

Briefly describe the details of the principal’s activities relating to its effecting or involvement in effecting security-based
swap transactions on behalf of the applicant:

Official
Use
Only

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /2011

Schedule C of FORM
SBSE-A

Official Use
Applicant Name: _________________________________
Date:__________

SEC Filer No: __________

LIST OF 15Fb6-1 ENTITIES

Each applicant shall use Schedule C to identify each person associated with it, as of the date it files an
application to register with the Commission, that is not a natural person and that is subject to statutory
disqualification (as described in Exchange Act Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F)) that the security-based swap
dealer or security-based swap participant permits to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on
its behalf pursuant to Rule 15Fb6-1.

NAME
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Official Use
Only

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

Schedule D of
FORM SBSE-A
Page 1

Applicant Name: ___________________________________

Official
Use
Only

Official Use

Principal Name: ____________________________________
Date:__________

Applicant NFA No.: __________

Use the appropriate DRP for providing details to “yes” answers to the questions in Schedule D. Refer to the
Explanation of Terms section of Form SBSE-A Instructions for explanations of italicized terms.

CRIMINAL DISCLOSURE

A. In the past ten years has the principal:
(1) Been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo contendere (“no contest”) in a domestic, foreign or military
court to any felony?
(2) Been charged with a felony

YES NO
[ ] [ ]
[ ]

[ ]

(1) Been convicted of or pled guilty or or nolo contendere (“no contest”) in a domestic, foreign or military
court to a misdemeanor involving: financial services industry-related business, or any fraud, false
statements or omissions, wrongful taking of property, bribery, perjury, forgery, counterfeiting,
extortion, or a conspiracy to commit any of these offenses?

[ ]

[ ]

(2) Been charged with a misdemeanor specified in B(1)?

[ ]

[ ]

(1) Found the principal to have made a false statement or omission?

[ ]

[ ]

(2) Found the principal to have been involved in a violation of its regulations or statutes?

[ ]

[ ]

(3) Found the principal to have been a cause of a financial services industry-related business having its
authorization to do business denied, revoked, or restricted?

[ ]

[ ]

(4) Entered an order against the principal in connection with financial services industry-related activity?

[ ]

[ ]

(5) Imposed a civil money penalty on the principal, or ordered the principal to cease and desist from any
activity?

[ ]

[ ]

(1) Ever found the principal to have made a false statement or omission or been dishonest, unfair, or
unethical?

[ ]

[ ]

(2) Ever found the principal to have been involved in a violation of financial services industry-related
regulations or statutes?

[ ]

[ ]

(3) Ever found the principal to have been a cause of a financial services industry-related business
having its authorization to do business denied, suspended, revoked or restricted?

[ ]

[ ]

(4) In the past ten years, entered an order against the principal in connection with a financial services
industry-related activity?

[ ]

[ ]

(5) Ever denied, suspended, or revoked the principal’s registration or license or otherwise, by order,
prevented it from associating with a financial services industry-related business or restricted its
activities?

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]
(2) found the principal to have been involved in a violation of its rules (other than a violation designated
as a “minor rule violation” under a plan approved by the U.S. Securities and exchange Commission)?

[ ]

(3) found the principal to have been the cause of a financial services industry-related business having its
authorization to do business denied, suspended, revoked or restricted?

[ ]

[ ]

(4) Disciplined the principal by expelling or suspending it from membership, barring or suspending its
association with other members, or otherwise restricting its activities?

[ ]

[ ]

F. Has the principal’s authorization to act as an attorney, accountant, or federal contractor ever been
revoked or suspended?

[ ]

[ ]

G. Is the principal now the subject of any regulatory proceeding that could result in a “yes” answer to any
part of C, D, or E?

[ ]

[ ]

B. In the past ten years has the principal:

REGULATORY ACTION
DISCLOSURE

C. Has the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ever:

REGULATORY ACTION DISCLOSURE

D. Has any other federal regulatory agency, state regulatory agency, or foreign financial regulatory authority:

E. Has any self-regulatory organization or commodities exchange ever:
(1) found the principal to have made a false statement or omission?

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

Schedule D of
FORM SBSE-A
Page 2
CIVIL JUDICIAL DISCLOSURE

H.

Applicant Name: ___________________________________

Official
Use
Only

Official Use

Principal Name: ____________________________________
Date:__________

Applicant NFA No.: __________

(1) Has any domestic or foreign civil judicial court:
(a) In the past ten years, enjoined the principal in connection with any financial services
industry-related activity?

YES NO
[ ] [ ]
(b) Ever found that the principal was involved in a violation of financial services industry-related [ ] [ ]
statutes or regulations?
[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

[ ]

(1) Has been the subject of a bankruptcy petition?

[ ]

[ ]

(2) Has had a trustee appointed or a direct payment procedure initiated under the Securities
Investor Protection Act?

[ ]

[ ]

(c) Ever dismissed, pursuant to a settlement agreement, a financial services industry-related
civil judicial action brought against the principal by a state or foreign financial regulatory
authority?
(2) Is the principal now the subject of any civil judicial proceeding that could result in a “yes” answer
to any part of H(1)?

FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE

I.

In the past ten years has the principal ever been a securities firm or a principal of a securities firm
that:

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

Schedule F of FORM
SBSE-A
Section I

Official Use

Applicant Name: _________________________________
Date:__________

Applicant NFA No.: __________

Service of Process and Certification Regarding Access to Records

Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and non-resident security-based swap participant shall use Schedule F to identify
its United States agent for service of process and the certify that it can as a matter of law, and will (3) provide the Commission with prompt access to its books and records, and
(4) submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.
1. Service of Process:
A.

Name of United States person applicant designates and appoints as agent for service of process

B.

Address of United States person applicant designates and appoints as agent for service of process

The above identified agent for service of process may be served any process, pleadings, subpoenas, or other papers in
(a) any investigation or administrative proceeding conducted by the Commission that relates to the applicant or about which the
applicant may have information; and
(b) any civil or criminal suit or action or proceeding brought against the applicant or to which the applicant has been joined as
defendant or respondent, in any appropriate court in any place subject to the jurisdiction of any state or of the United States or of
any of its territories or possessions or of the District of Columbia, to enforce the Exchange Act. The applicant has stipulated and
agreed that any such suit, action or administrative proceeding may be commenced by the service of process upon, and that
service of an administrative subpoena shall be effected by service upon the above-named Agent for Service of Process, and that
service as aforesaid shall be taken and held in all courts and administrative tribunals to be valid and binding as if personal
service thereof had been made.

2. Certification regarding access to records:
Applicant can as a matter of law, and will;
(3) provide the Commission with prompt access to its books and records, and
(4) submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.
Applicant must attach to this Form SBSE a copy of the opinion of counsel it is required to obtain in accordance with
paragraph (c)(2) or (c)(3) of Exchange Act Rule 15Fb2-4, as appropriate [paragraphs (c)(2) or (c)(3) of 17 CFR
240.15Fb2-4].
Signature:
Name and Title:
Date:

Section II

Registration with Foreign Financial Regulatory Authorities

Complete this Section for Registration with Foreign Financial Regulatory Authorities relating to ITEM 17. Each securitybased swap dealer and major security-based swap participant that is registered with a foreign financial regulatory authority must list on Section II
of this Schedule F, for each foreign financial regulatory authority with which it is registered, the following information:
1 ________________________________________________________
. English Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority

___________________

__________________

Foreign Registration No. (if any)

English Name of Country:

2 ________________________________________________________
. English Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority

___________________

__________________

Foreign Registration No. (if any)

English Name of Country:

3 ________________________________________________________
. English Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority

___________________

__________________

Foreign Registration No. (if any)

English Name of Country:

If applicant has more than 3 Foreign Financial Regulatory Authorities to report, complete additional Schedule F Page 1s.

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

CRIMINAL DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE-A)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page [DRP (SBSE)] is an [ ] INITIAL OR [ ] AMENDED response to report details for
affirmative responses to Items A and B of Schedule D of Form SBSE-A;
Check [√] item(s) being responded to:
A. In the past ten years has the principal:
[ ] (1) Been convicted of or pled guilty or nolo contendere (“no contest”) in a domestic, foreign or military
court to any felony?
[ ] (2) Been charged with a felony?
B. In the past ten years has the principal:
[ ] (1) Been convicted of or pled guilty or or nolo contendere (“no contest”) in a domestic, foreign or military
court to a misdemeanor involving: investments or an investment-related business, or any fraud, false
statements or omissions, wrongful taking of property, bribery, perjury, forgery, counterfeiting, extortion, or a
conspiracy to commit any of these offenses?
[ ] (2) Been charged with a misdemeanor specified in B(1)?
Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. An event or proceeding may be reported for more than one person or
entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution Page.
Multiple counts of the same charge arising out of the same event(s) should be reported on the same DRP. Unrelated
criminal actions, including separate cases arising out of the same event, must be reported on separate DRPs. Use this
DRP to report all charges arising out of the same event. One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to the
above items.
If a principal is an organization registered through the CRD, such principal need only complete Part I of the applicant’s
appropriate DRP (SBSE-A). Details of the event must be submitted on the principal’s appropriate DRP (BD) or DRP (U-4).
If a principal is an individual or organization not registered through the CRD, provide complete answers to all the items on
the applicant’s appropriate DRP (SBSE-A). The completion of this DRP does not relieve the principal of its obligation to
update its CRD records.
Applicants must attach a copy of each applicable court document (i.e., criminal complaint, information or indictment as well
as judgment of conviction or sentencing documents) if not previously submitted through CRD (as they could be in the case
of a control affiliate registered through CRD). Documents will not be accepted as disclosure in lieu of answering the
questions on this DRP.

PART I
A.

If the principal is registered with the CRD, provide the CRD number. If not, indicate “non-registered” by checking the
appropriate checkbox.
Name of Principal
CRD NUMBER

Registered:

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

[ ] This DRP should be removed from the SBS Entity’s record because the principal is no longer associated with
the SBS Entity.
B.

If the principal is registered through the CRD, has the principal submitted a DRP (with Form U-4) or DRP (BD) to the
CRD System for the event?
If the answer is “Yes,” no other information on this DRP must be provided: If “No,” complete Part II.
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
Note: The completion of this Form does not relieve the principal of its obligation to update its CRD records.

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

CRIMINAL DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE-A)
(continuation)

PART II
1.

If charge(s) were brought against an organization over which the principal exercise(d) control: Enter organization
name, whether or not the organization was an investment-related business and the principal’s position, title or
relationship.
___________________________________________________________________________________________

2.

Formal Charge(s) were brought in: (include name of Federal, Military, State or Foreign Court, Location of Court – City
or County and State or Country, Docket/Case number).
____________________________________________________________________________________________

3.

Event Disclosure Detail (Use this for both organizational and individual charges.)
A.

Date First Charged (MM/DD/YYYY):

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: _________________________________________________________________
B.

Event Disclosure Detail (include Charge(s)/Charge Description(s), and for each charge provide: 1. number of
counts, 2. felony or misdemeanor, 3. plea for each charge, and 4. product type if charge is investment-related):

___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
C.

Current status of the Event?

[ ] Pending

D.

Event Status Date (complete unless status is
Pending) (MM/DD/YYYY):

[ ] On Appeal

[ ] Final
[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: _________________________________________________________________
4.

Disposition Disclosure Detail: Include for each charge, A. Disposition Type [e.g., convicted, acquitted, dismissed,
pretrial.], B. Date, C. Sentence/Penalty, D. Duration [if sentence-suspension, probation, etc.], E. Start Date of Penalty,
F. Penalty/Fine Amount and G. Date Paid.
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

5.

Provide a brief summary of the circumstances leading to the charge(s) as well as the disposition. Include the relevant
dates when the conduct which was the subject of the charge(s) occurred. (The information must fit within the space
provided.)
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

REGULATORY ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE-A)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page [DRP (SBSE)] is an [ ] INITIAL OR [ ] AMENDED response to report details for affirmative
responses to Items C, D, E, F, or G of Schedule D of Form SBSE-A;
Check [√] item(s) being responded to:
C. Has the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or the Commodity Futures Trading Commission ever:
[ ] (1) Found the principal to have made a false statement or omission?
[ ] (2) Found the principal to have been involved in a violation of its regulations or statutes?
[ ] (3) the principal to have been a cause of an investment-related business having its authorization to do business denied, revoked, or restricted?
[ ] (4) Entered an order against the principal in connection with investment-related activity?
[ ] (5) Imposed a civil money penalty on the principal, or ordered the principal to cease and desist from any activity?
D. Has any other federal regulatory agency, state regulatory agency, or foreign financial regulatory authority:
[ ] (1) Ever found the principal to have made a false statement or omission or been dishonest, unfair, or unethical?
[ ] (2) Ever found the principal to have been involved in a violation of investment-related regulations or statutes?
[ ] (3) Ever found the principal to have been a cause of an investment-related business having its authorization to do business denied, suspended, revoked or
restricted?
[ ] (4) In the past ten years, entered an order against the principal in connection with an investment-related activity?
[ ] (5) Ever denied, suspended, or revoked the principal’s registration or license or otherwise, by order, prevented it from associating with an investment-related
business or restricted its activities?
E. Has any self-regulatory organization or commodities exchange ever:
[ ] (1) found the principal to have made a false statement or omission?
[ ] (2) found the principal to have been involved in a violation of its rules (other than a violation designated as a “minor rule violation” under a plan approved by the
U.S. Securities and exchange Commission)?
[ ] (3) found the principal to have been the cause of an investment-related business having its authorization to do business denied, suspended, revoked or restricted?
[ ] (4) Disciplined the principal by expelling or suspending it from membership, barring or suspending its association with other members, or otherwise restricting its
activities?
F. [ ] Has the principal’s authorization to act as an attorney, accountant, or federal contractor ever been revoked or suspended?
G. [ ] Is the principal now the subject of any regulatory proceeding that could result in a “yes” answer to any part of C, D, or E?

Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. An event or proceeding may be reported for more than one person or entity using one
DRP. File with a completed Execution Page.
One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Items C, D, E, F or G. Use only one DRP to report details related to the same
event. If an event gives rise to actions by more than one regulator, provide details for each action on a separate DRP.
It is not a requirement that documents be provided for each event or proceeding. Should they be provided, they will not be accepted as
disclosure in lieu of answering the questions on this DRP.
If the principal is an organization registered through the CRD, such principal need only complete Part I of the applicant’s appropriate DRP
(SBSE). Details of the event must be submitted on the principal’s appropriate DRP (BD) or DRP (U-4). If a principal is an organization not
registered through the CRD, provide complete answers to all the items on the applicant’s appropriate DRP (SBSE). The completion of this
DRP does not relieve the prinicipal of its obligation to update its CRD records.

PART I
A.

If the principal is registered with the CRD, provide the CRD number. If not, indicate “non-registered” by checking the
appropriate checkbox.
Name of Principal
Registered:

[ ] Yes

Principal’s CRD Number
[ ] No

[ ] This DRP should be removed from the SBS Entity record because the control affiliate(s) are no longer associated
with the SBS Entity.
B.

If the principal is registered through the CRD, has the principal submitted a DRP (with Form U-4) or DRP (BD) to the
CRD System for the event?
If the answer is “Yes,” no other information on this DRP must be provided: If “No,” complete Part II.
[ ] Yes

[ ] No

Note: The completion of this Form does not relieve the principal of its obligation to update its CRD records.

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

REGULATORY ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE-A)
(continuation)

PART II
1.

Regulatory Action initiated by:
[ ] SEC
[ ] Other Federal
[ ] State
[ ] SRO
[ ] Foreign
(Full name of regulator, foreign financial regulatory authority, federal, state or SRO)

2.

Principal Sanction: (check appropriate item)
[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]

Civil and Administrative Penalty(ies)/Fine(s)
Bar
Cease and Desist
Censure
Denial

[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]

Disgorgement
Expulsion
Injunction
Prohibition
Reprimand

[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]

Restitution
Revocation
Suspension
Undertaking
Other ____________________

Other Sanctions:
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
3.

3.

Date Initiated (MM/DD/YYYY)

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: __________________________________________________________________
4.

Docket/Case Number:

5.

Principal Employing Firm when activity occurred which led to the regulatory action (if applicable):

6.

Principal Product Type: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Annuity(ies) - Fixed
[ ] Annuity(ies) - Variable
[ ] Banking Products (other
than CD(s))
[ ] CD(s)
[ ] Commodity Option(s)
[ ] Debt – Asset Backed
[ ] Debt - Corporate
[ ] Debt - Government

[ ] Debt - Municipal
[
[
[
[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]
]
]
]

Derivative(s)
Direct Investment(s) – DPP & LP Interest(s)
Equity - OTC
Equity Listed (Common & Preferred Stock)
Futures - Commodity
Futures - Financial
Index Option(s)
Insurance

[
[
[
[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]
]
]
]

Investment Contract(s)
Money Market Fund(s)
Mutual Fund(s)
No Product
Options
Penny Stock(s)
Unit Investment Trust(s)
Other _________________

Other Product Type:

7.

Describe the allegations related to this regulatory action. (The information must fit within the space provided.):
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

8.

Current Status?

[ ] Pending

[ ] On Appeal

[ ] Final

9.

If on appeal, regulatory action appealed to: (SEC, SRO, Federal or State Court) and Date Appeal Filed:

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

REGULATORY ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE-A)
(continuation)
If Final or On Appeal, complete all items below. For Pending Actions, complete Item 13 only.
10.

How was matter resolved: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Acceptance, Waiver & Consent (AWC)
[ ] Decision & Order of Offer of Settlement
[ ] Decision

[ ] Consent
[ ] Dismissed
[ ] Order

[ ] Settled
[ ] Stipulation and Consent
[ ] Vacated

3.

11.

Resolution Date (MM/DD/YYYY)

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation:
12.

A.

Were any of the following Sanctions Ordered? (Check all appropriate items):
[ ] Monetary/Fine
Amount $________

[ ] Revocation/Expulsion/Denial
[ ] Censure

[ ] Disgorgement/Restitution

[ ] Cease and Desist/Injunction

[ ] Bar

[ ] Suspension

B.

Other Sanctions Ordered:

C.

Sanction Detail: If suspended, enjoined or barred, provide duration including start date and capacities affected
(General Securities Principal, Financial Operations Principal, etc.). If requalification, by exam/retraining was a
condition of the sanction, provide length of time given to re-qualify/retrain, type of exam required and whether
condition has been satisfied. If disposition resulted in a fine, penalty, restitution, disgorgement or monetary
compensation, provide total amount, portion levied against principal, date paid and if any portion of penalty was
waived.

___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
13.

Provide a brief summary of details related to the action status and (or) disposition and include relevant terms,
conditions and dates. (The information must fit within the space provided.)
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

CIVIL JUDICIAL ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE-A)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page [DRP (SBSE-A)] is an [ ] INITIAL OR [ ] AMENDED response to report details for
affirmative responses to Item H of Schedule D of Form SBSE-A;
Check [√] item(s) being responded to:
H(1) Has any domestic or foreign civil judicial court:
[ ] (a) in the past ten years, enjoined the principal in connection with any investment-related activity?
[ ] (b) ever found that the principal was involved in a violation of investment-related statutes or
regulations?
[ ] (c) ever dismissed, pursuant to a settlement agreement, an investment-related civil judicial action
brought against the principal by a state or foreign financial regulatory authority?
H(2) [ ] Is the principal now the subject of any civil judicial proceeding that could result in a “yes” answer to any
part of H?
Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. An event or proceeding may be reported for more than one person or entity using one
DRP. File with a completed Execution Page.
One event may result in more than one affirmative answer to Item H. Use only one DRP to report details related to the same event.
Unrelated civil judicial actions must be reported on separate DRPs.
It is not a requirement that documents be provided for each event or proceeding. Should they be provided, they will not be accepted as
disclosure in lieu of answering the questions on this DRP.
If a principal is an individual or organization registered through the CRD, such principal need only complete Part I of the applicant’s
appropriate DRP (SBSE-A). Details of the event must be submitted on the principal’s appropriate DRP (BD) or DRP (U-4). If a principal is an
organization not registered through the CRD, provide complete answers to all the items on the applicant’s appropriate DRP (SBSE-A). The
completion of this DRP does not relieve the principal of its obligation to update its CRD records.

PART I
A.

If the principal is registered with the CRD, provide the CRD number. If not, indicate “non-registered” by checking the
appropriate checkbox.
Name of Principal
CRD NUMBER

Registered:

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

[ ] This DRP should be removed from the SBS Entity’s record because the principal is no longer associated with the
SBS Entity.
B.

If the principal is registered through the CRD, has the principal submitted a DRP (with Form U-4) or DRP (BD) to the
CRD System for the event?
If the answer is “Yes,” no other information on this DRP must be provided: If “No,” complete Part II.
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
Note: The completion of this Form does not relieve the principal of its obligation to update its CRD records.

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

CIVIL JUDICIAL ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE-A)
(continuation)

PART II
1.

Court Action initiated by: (Name of regulator, foreign financial regulatory authority, SRO, commodities exchange,
agency, firm, private plaintiff, etc.)

2.

Principal Relief Sought: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Cease and Desist
[ ] Civil Penalty(ies)/Fine(s)

[ ] Disgorgement
[ ] Injunction

[ ] Money Damages (Private/Civil Complaint)
[ ] Restitution

[ ] Restraining Order
[ ] Other __________

Other Relief Sought:
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________
3.

3.

Filing Date of Court Action (MM/DD/YYYY)

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: __________________________________________________________________
4.

Principal Product Type: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Annuity(ies) - Fixed
[ ] Annuity(ies) - Variable
[ ] Banking Products (other
than CD(s))
[ ] CD(s)
[ ] Commodity Option(s)
[ ] Debt – Asset Backed
[ ] Debt - Corporate
[ ] Debt - Government

[
[
[
[
[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]
]
]
]
]

Debt - Municipal
Derivative(s)
Direct Investment(s) – DPP & LP Interest(s)
Equity - OTC
Equity Listed (Common & Preferred Stock)
Futures - Commodity
Futures - Financial
Index Option(s)
Insurance

[
[
[
[
[
[
[
[

]
]
]
]
]
]
]
]

Investment Contract(s)
Money Market Fund(s)
Mutual Fund(s)
No Product
Options
Penny Stock(s)
Unit Investment Trust(s)
Other _________________

Other Product Type:

5.

Formal Action was brought in (include name of Federal, State or Foreign Court, Location of Court – City or County and
State or Country, Docket/Case Number):

6.

Control Affiliate Employing Firm when activity occurred which led to the civil judicial action (if applicable):

7.

Describe the allegations related to this civil action. (The information must fit within the space provided.):
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

8.

Current Status?

[ ] Pending

[ ] On Appeal

9.

If on appeal, action appealed to (provide name of court):

[ ] Final
Date Appeal Filed (MM/DD/YYYY):

_____________________________________________________________________________________________
10.

If pending, date notice/process was served (MM/DD/YYYY)
If not exact, provide explanation:

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

CIVIL JUDICIAL ACTION DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE-A)
(continuation)
If Final or On Appeal, complete all items below. For Pending Actions, complete Item 14 only.
11.

How was matter resolved: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Consent
[ ] Dismissed

[ ] Judgement Rendered
[ ] Opinion

[ ] Settled
[ ] Withdrawn

[ ] Other _______________________

3.

12.

Resolution Date (MM/DD/YYYY)

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation:
13.

Resolution Detail
A.

Were any of the following Sanctions Ordered or Relief Granted? (Check all appropriate items):
[ ] Monetary/Fine
Amount $________

[ ] Revocation/Expulsion/Denial
[ ] Censure

[ ] Disgorgement/Restitution

[ ] Cease and Desist/Injunction

[ ] Bar

[ ] Suspension

B.

Other Sanctions:

C.

Sanction Detail: If suspended, enjoined or barred, provide duration including start date and capacities affected
(General Securities Principal, Financial Operations Principal, etc.). If requalification, by exam/retraining was a
condition of the sanction, provide length of time given to re-qualify/retrain, type of exam required and whether
condition has been satisfied. If disposition resulted in a fine, penalty, restitution, disgorgement or monetary
compensation, provide total amount, portion levied against prinicpal, date paid and if any portion of penalty was
waived.

___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
14.

Provide a brief summary of details related to action(s), allegation(s), disposition(s), and/or finding(s) disclosed above.
(The information must fit within the space provided.)
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

BANKRUPTCY / SIPC DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE-A)
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
This Disclosure Reporting Page [DRP (SBSE-A)] is an an [ ] INITIAL OR [ ] AMENDED response to report details for
affirmative responses to Questions I on Schedule D of Form SBSE-A;
Check [√] item(s) being responded to:
l In the past ten years has the principal ever been a securities firm or a control affiliate of a securities firm that:
[ ] (1) has been the subject of a bankruptcy petition?
[ ] (2) has had a trustee appointed or a direct payment procedure initiated under the Securities Investor
Protection Act?
Use a separate DRP for each event or proceeding. An event or proceeding may be reported for more than one person or
entity using one DRP. File with a completed Execution Page.
It is not a requirement that documents be provided for each event or proceeding. Should they be provided, they will not be
accepted as disclosure in lieu of answering the questions on this DRP.
If a principal is an individual or organization registered through CRD, such principal need only complete Part I of the
applicant’s appropriate DRP (SBSE-A). Details of the event must be submitted on the principal’s appropriate DRP (BD) or
DRP (U-4). If a principal is an organization not registered through the CRD, provide complete answers to all the items on the
applicant’s appropriate DRP (SBSE-a). The completion of this DRP does not relieve the prinicpal of its obligation to update its
CRD records.

PART I
A.

If the principal is registered with the CRD, provide the CRD number. If not, indicate “non-registered” by checking the
appropriate checkbox.
Name of Principal
CRD NUMBER

Registered:

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

[ ] This DRP should be removed from the SBS Entity’s record because the principal is no longer associated with the
SBS Entity.
B.

If the principal is registered through the CRD, has the principal submitted a DRP (with Form U-4) or DRP (BD) to the
CRD System for the event?
If the answer is “Yes,” no other information on this DRP must be provided: If “No,” complete Part II.
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
Note: The completion of this Form does not relieve the principal of its obligation to update its CRD records.

PART II
1.

2.

Action Type: (check appropriate item)
[ ] Bankruptcy
[ ] Declaration
[ ] Compromise
[ ] Liquidated

[ ] Receivership
[ ] Other ____________________

Action Date (MM/DD/YYYY) ______________________

[ ] Exact

[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: _____________________________________________________________

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

BANKRUPTCY / SIPC DISCLOSURE REPORTING PAGE (SBSE-A)
(continuation)
3.

If the financial action relates to an organization over which the applicant or the control affiliate exercise(d) control,
enter organization name and the applicant’s or control affiliate’s position, title or relationship:
________________________________________________________________________________________
Was the Organization investment-related?

4.

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

Court action brought in (Name of Federal, State or Foreign Court), Location of Court (City or County and State or
Country), Docket/Case Number and Bankruptcy Chapter Number (if Federal Bankruptcy Filing):
________________________________________________________________________________________

5.

Is action currently pending?

6.

If not pending, provide Disposition Type: (check appropriate item)

7.

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

[ ] Direct Payment Procedure

[ ] Dismissed

[ ] Satisfied/Released

[ ] Discharged

[ ] Dissolved

[ ] SIPA Trustee Appointed

Disposition Date (MM/DD/YYYY): _______________________

[ ] Exact

[ ] Other _____________
[ ] Explanation

If not exact, provide explanation: _____________________________________________________________
8.

Provide a brief summary of events leading to the action and if not discharged, explain. (The information must fit
within the space provided.):
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

9.

If a SIPA trustee was appointed or a direct payment procedure was begun, enter the amount paid or agreed to be
paid by you; or the name of the trustee:

Currently open?

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

Date Direct Payment Initiated/Filed or Trustee Appointed (MM/DD/YYYY): __________ [ ] Exact [ ] Explanation
If not exact, provide explanation: _________________________________________________________________
10.

Provide details of any status/disposition. Include details of creditors, terms, conditions, amounts due and settlement
schedule (if applicable). (The information must fit within the space provided.)
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________
___________________________________________________________________________________________

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

Form SBSE-BD

OMB Approval
OMB Number: .....3235-____
Expires:...... ..Month __, 2018
Estimated average burden hours per
response: . . . . . . . _____.
per amendment: . . . . . _____.

Application for Registration
of Security-based Swap
Dealers and Major Securitybased Swap Participants that
are Registered Broker-dealers

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

FORM SBSE-BD INSTRUCTIONS
A.
1.

2.
3.

4.

5.

6.

C.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
FORM - Form SBSE-BD is the Application for Registration as either a Security-based Swap
Dealer or Major Security-based Swap Participant (collectively, “SBS Entities”) by an entity that is
registered or registering with the Commission as a broker or dealer. These SBS Entities must file
this form to register with the Securities and Exchange Commission. An applicant must also file
Schedules C and F, as appropriate. There are no Schedules A, B, D, or E.
DEFINITIONS – Form SBSE-BD uses the same definitions as in Form BD.
ELECTRONIC FILING - This Form SBSE-BD must be filed electronically with the Commission
through the EDGAR system, and must utilize the EDGAR Filer Manual (as defined in 17 CFR
232. 11) to file and amend Form SBSE-BD electronically to assure the timely acceptance and
processing of those filings. Additional documents shall be attached to this electronic application.
UPDATING - By law, the applicant must promptly update Form SBSE-BD information by
submitting amendments whenever the information on file becomes inaccurate or incomplete for
any reason [17 CFR 240.15Fb2-3]. In addition, the applicant must update any incomplete or
inaccurate information contained on Form SBSE-BD prior to filing a notice of withdrawal from
registration on Form SBSE-W [17 CFR 15Fb3-2(a)].
DEFINITION - For purposes of Form SBSE-BD, the term “unique identification code” or “UIC”
means a unique identification code assigned to a person by an internationally recognized
standards-setting system that is recognized by the Commission [pursuant to Rule 903(a) of
Regulation SBSR (17 CFR 242.903(a))].
FEDERAL INFORMATION LAW AND REQUIREMENTS - An agency may not conduct or
sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays
a currently valid control number. Sections 15F, 17(a) and 23(a) of the Exchange Act authorize the
SEC to collect the information on this form from registrants. See 15 U.S.C. §§78o-10, 78q and
78w. Filing of this form is mandatory. The principal purpose of this Form is to permit the
Commission to determine whether the applicant meets the statutory requirements to engage in
the security-based swap business. The Commission maintain[s] a file of the information on this
form and will make information collected via the form publicly available. Any member of the public
may direct to the Commission any comments concerning the accuracy of the burden estimate on
this Form, and any suggestions for reducing this burden. This collection of information has been
reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget in accordance with the clearance
requirements of 44 U.S.C. §3507. The information contained in this form is part of a system of
records subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. The Securities and Exchange
Commission has published in the Federal Register the Privacy Act Systems of Records Notice for
these records.
FILING INSTRUCTIONS
FORMAT
a. Items 1-7 and the accompanying Schedules must be answered and all fields requiring a
response must be completed before the filing will be accepted.
b. Failure to follow instructions or properly complete the form may result in the application
being delayed or rejected.
c. Applicant must complete the execution screen certifying that Form SBSE-BD and
amendments thereto have been executed properly and that the information contained
therein is accurate and complete.
d. To amend information, the applicant must update the appropriate Form SBSE-BD
screens.
e. A paper copy, with original signatures, of the initial Form SBSE-BD filing and Schedules
must be retained by the applicant and be made available for inspection upon a regulatory
request.

The mailing address for questions and correspondence is:
The Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, DC 20549

FORM SBSE-BD

Application for Registration as a Security-based
Swap Dealer and Major Security-based Swap
Participant that is Registered as a Broker-Dealer

Official Use

Failure to keep this form current and to file accurate supplementary information on a timely basis, or the failure to keep
accurate books and records or otherwise to comply with the provisions of law applying to the conduct of business as an SBS
Entity, would violate the Federal securities laws and may result in disciplinary, administrative, injunctive or criminal action.
INTENTIONAL MISSTATEMENTS OR OMISSIONS OF FACTS MAY CONSTITUTE FEDERAL CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.

WARNING:

See 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a)

[ ] APPLICATION
1.

A.

Full name of the applicant:

B.

CRD No.:

C
D.

Website/URL:
Contact Employee:
Name:

Title:

Telephone Number:

Email Address:

E.

3.

UIC No. (if any):

Chief Compliance Officer designated by the applicant in accordance with Exchange Act Section 15F(k):
Name:
Title:
Telephone Number:

2.

[ ] AMENDMENT

Exact name and CRD number of the applicant:

Email Address:

A.

The applicant is registering as a security-based swap dealer:

B.

The applicant is registering as a major security-based swap participant:
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
Because it: (check all that apply)
[ ] maintains a substantial security-based swap position
[ ] has substantial counterparty exposure
[ ] is highly leveraged relative to its capital position

[ ] Yes

[ ] No

A.

The applicant is presently registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a:
[ ] Swap Dealer
[ ] Major Swap Participant

B.

The applicant is registering with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a:
[ ] Swap Dealer
[ ] Major Swap Participant

4.

Is the applicant subject to regulation by a prudential regulator, as defined in Sec. 1a(39) of the Commodity Exchange Act.
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
If “yes,” identify the prudential regulator: ____________________________________.

5.

Is the applicant registered with the Commission as an over-the-counter derivatives dealer?
[ ] Yes
[ ] No

6.

Briefly describe the applicant’s business: _______________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________

7.

Is the applicant registered with a foreign financial regulatory authority?
[ ] Yes
[ ] No
If “yes,” list all such registrations on Schedule F, Page 1, Section II.

EXECUTION:
The applicant consents that service of any civil action brought by or notice of any proceeding before the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with the applicant’s security-based swap
activities, unless the applicant is a nonresident SBS Entity , may be given by registered or certified mail or confirmed telegram to the applicant’s contact employee at the main address, or mailing
address if different, given in Items 1E and 1F. If the applicant is a nonresident SBS Entity, it must complete Schedule F to designate a U.S. agent for service of process.
The undersigned certifies that he/she has executed this form on behalf of, and with the authority of, said applicant. The undersigned and applicant represent that the information and statements
contained herein, including schedules attached hereto, and other information filed herewith are current, true and complete. The undersigned and applicant further represent that to the extent any
information previously submitted is not amended such information is currently accurate and complete.
Date (MM/DD/YYYY)

Name of Applicant

By:
Signature

Name and Title of Person Signing on Applicant’s behalf

This page must always be completed in full.
DO NOT WRITE BELOW THIS LINE – FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

Official
Use
Only

Schedule C of FORM
SBSE-BD
LIST OF 15Fb6-1 ENTITIES

Applicant Name: _________________________________
Date:__________

Official Use

SEC Filer No: __________

Each applicant shall use Schedule C to identify each person associated with it, as of the date it files an
application to register with the Commission, that is not a natural person and that is subject to statutory
disqualification (as described in Exchange Act Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F)) that the security-based swap
dealer or security-based swap participant permits to effect or be involved in effecting security-based swaps on
its behalf pursuant to Rule 15Fb6-1.

NAME
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.

Official Use
Only

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

Schedule F of FORM
SBSE-BD

Official Use
Applicant Name: _________________________________

NONRESIDENT SECURITYDate:__________
BASED SWAP DEALERS AND
MAJOR SECURITY-BASED SWAP
PARTICIPANTS

Section I

Firm SEC No.: __________

Service of Process and Certification Regarding Access to Records

Each nonresident security-based swap dealer and non-resident security-based swap participant shall use Schedule F to identify
its United States agent for service of process and the certify that it can as a matter of law, and will (5) provide the Commission with prompt access to its books and records, and
(6) submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.
1. Service of Process:
A.

Name of United States person applicant designates and appoints as agent for service of process

B.

Address of United States person applicant designates and appoints as agent for service of process

The above identified agent for service of process may be served any process, pleadings, subpoenas, or other papers in
(a) any investigation or administrative proceeding conducted by the Commission that relates to the applicant or about which the
applicant may have information; and
(b) any civil or criminal suit or action or proceeding brought against the applicant or to which the applicant has been joined as
defendant or respondent, in any appropriate court in any place subject to the jurisdiction of any state or of the United States or of
any of its territories or possessions or of the District of Columbia, to enforce the Exchange Act. The applicant has stipulated and
agreed that any such suit, action or administrative proceeding may be commenced by the service of process upon, and that
service of an administrative subpoena shall be effected by service upon the above-named Agent for Service of Process, and that
service as aforesaid shall be taken and held in all courts and administrative tribunals to be valid and binding as if personal
service thereof had been made.

2. Certification regarding access to records:
Applicant can as a matter of law, and will;
(5) provide the Commission with prompt access to its books and records, and
(6) submit to onsite inspection and examination by the Commission.
Applicant must attach to this Form SBSE a copy of the opinion of counsel it is required to obtain in accordance with
paragraph (c)(1)(ii) or (c)(2) of Exchange Act Rule 15Fb2-4, as appropriate [paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) or (c)(2) of 17 CFR
240.15Fb2-4].
Signature:
Name and Title:
Date:

Section II

Registration with Foreign Financial Regulatory Authorities

Complete this Section for Registration with Foreign Financial Regulatory Authorities relating to ITEM 7. Each securitybased swap dealer and major security-based swap participant that is registered with a foreign financial regulatory authority must list on Section II
of this Schedule F, for each foreign financial regulatory authority with which it is registered, the following information:
1 ________________________________________________________
. English Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority

___________________

__________________

Foreign Registration No. (if any)

English Name of Country:

2 ________________________________________________________
. English Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority

___________________

__________________

Foreign Registration No. (if any)

English Name of Country:

3 ________________________________________________________
. English Name of Foreign Financial Regulatory Authority

___________________

__________________

Foreign Registration No. (if any)

English Name of Country:

If applicant has more than 3 Foreign Financial Regulatory Authorities to report, complete additional Schedule F Page 1s.

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

Form SBSE-C

OMB Approval
OMB Number: .....3235-____
Expires:...... ..Month __, 2018
Estimated average burden hours
per response: . . . . . . . _____.
per amendment: . . . . . _____.

Certifications for
Registration of Security-based
Swap Dealers and Major Securitybased Swap Participants

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

FORM SBSE-C INSTRUCTIONS
A.

GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
1.

Each security-based swap dealer and major security-based swap participant must file Form SBSE-C to register as a
security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant.
2. ELECTRONIC FILING – The applicant must file Form SBSE-C through the EDGAR system, and must utilize the EDGAR
Filer Manual (as defined in 17 CFR 232. 11) to file and amend Form SBSE-C electronically to assure the timely
acceptance and processing of those filings.
3. All fields requiring a response must be complete before the filing is accepted.
The mailing address for questions and correspondence is:
The Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, DC 20549

FEDERAL INFORMATION LAW AND REQUIREMENTS – SEC’s Collection of Information
An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a
currently valid control number. Sections 15F, 17(a) and 23(a) of the Exchange Act authorize the SEC to collect the information on
this form from registrants. See 15 U.S.C. §§78o, 78o-4, 78o-5, 78q and 78w. Filing of this Form is mandatory. The principal
purpose of this Form is to permit the Commission to determine whether it is in the public interest to approve or disapprove the
application for ongoing registration by the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant. The Commission
maintains a file of the information on this Form and will make the information publicly available. Any member of the public may
direct to the Commission any comments concerning the accuracy of the burden estimate on this Form, and any suggestions for
reducing this burden. This collection of information has been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget in accordance
with the clearance requirements of 44 U.S.C. §3507. The information contained in this Form is part of a system of records subject
to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. The Securities and Exchange Commission has published in the Federal Register the
Privacy Act Systems of Records Notice for these records.

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

FORM SBSE-C
Certification 1

Applicant Name: _________________________________
Date:__________

Official Use

SEC Filer No: _________

INTENTIONAL MISSTATEMENTS OR OMISSIONS OF FACTS MAY CONSTITUTE FEDERAL CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.
See 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a)

Instructions:

This Certification 1 must be signed by a senior officer of the applicant.

I certify that (1) after due inquiry, I have reasonably determined that the applicant has developed and implemented written policies and
procedures reasonably designed to prevent violation of federal securities laws and the rules thereunder, and
(2) I have documented the process by which I reached such determination.

Applicant Name:

Date:

Signature of Senior Officer:

Name of Senior Officer:
Title of Senior Officer

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

FORM SBSE-C
Certification 2

Applicant Name: _________________________________
Date:__________

Official Use

SEC Filer No: __________

INTENTIONAL MISSTATEMENTS OR OMISSIONS OF FACTS MAY CONSTITUTE FEDERAL CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.
See 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a)

Instructions:

This certification must be signed by the applicant’s Chief Compliance Officer designated pursuant to Exchange
Act Section 15F(k) or by his or her designee.
For purposes of this Form, the term associated person shall have the meaning as specified in Section 3(a)(70) of
the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(70)].

The applicant certifies that it (a) has performed background checks on all of its associated persons who are natural persons and who effect or are
involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf, and
(b) neither knows, nor in the exercise of reasonable care should have known, that any associated person who effects
or is involved in effecting security-based swaps on its behalf is subject to a statutory disqualification, as described
in Sections 3(a)(39)(A) through (F) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(39)(A) – (F)), unless
otherwise specifically provided by rule, regulation or order of the Commission.
Applicant Name:

Date:

Signature of Chief Compliance Officer or Designee:
Name of Chief Compliance Officer or Designee:

If Designee, Title of Designee:

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

Form SBSE-W

OMB Approval
OMB Number: .....3235-___
Expires:...... ..Month __, 2018
Estimated average burden hours
per response: . . . . . . . _____.
per amendment: . . . . . _____.

Request for Withdrawal from
Registration as a
Security-based Swap Dealer or
Major Security-based Swap
Participant

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

FORM SBSE-W INSTRUCTIONS
GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS
1.
2.
3.

4.

Security-based swap dealers and major security-based swap participants (collectively “SBS Entities”) must file Form SBSE-W
to withdraw their registration from the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”).
All questions must be answered and all fields requiring a response must be complete before the filing is accepted.
The registrant must file Form SBSE-W through the EDGAR system, and must utilize the EDGAR Filer Manual (as defined in
17 CFR 232. 11) to file and amend Form SBSE-W electronically to assure the timely acceptance and processing of those
filings. Prior to filing Form SBSE-W, amend Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as applicable, in accordance with
Rule 15Fb2-3 [17 CFR 240.15Fb2-3], to update any incomplete or inaccurate information.
A paper copy of this Form SBSE-W with the original manual signature(s) must be retained by the security-based swap dealer
or major security-based swap participant filing the Form SBSE-W and be made available for inspection upon a regulatory
request. A paper copy of the initial Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD filing, as appropriate, and amendments to
any Disclosure Reporting Pages (DRPs) also must be retained by the security-based swap dealer and major security-based
swap participant filing the Form SBSE-W.

The mailing address for questions and correspondence is:
The Securities and Exchange Commission
Washington, DC 20549

EXPLANATION OF TERMS
(The following terms are italicized throughout this form.)
The term INVESTIGATION includes: (a) grand jury investigations, (b) U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission investigations
after the “Wells” notice has been given, (c) formal investigations by a self-regulatory organization or, (d) actions or procedures
designated as investigations by jurisdictions. The term investigation does not include subpoenas, preliminary or routine regulatory
inquiries or requests for information, deficiency letters, “blue sheet” requests or other trading questionnaires, or examinations.
The term INVESTMENT-RELATED pertains to securities, commodities, banking, savings association activities, credit union
activities, insurance, or real estate (including, but not limited to, acting as or being associated with a broker-dealer, municipal
securities dealer, government securities broker or dealer, issuer, investment company, investment adviser, futures sponsor, bank,
savings association, credit union, insurance company, or insurance agency).

FEDERAL INFORMATION LAW AND REQUIREMENTS – SEC’s Colllection of Information
An agency may not conduct or sponsor, and a person is not required to respond to, a collection of information unless it displays a
currently valid control number. Sections 15F, 17(a) and 23(a) of the Exchange Act authorize the SEC to collect the information on
this form from registrants. See 15 U.S.C. §§ 78o-10, 78q and 78w. Filing of this Form is mandatory. The principal purpose of this
Form is to permit the Commission to determine whether it is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of
investors to permit the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant to withdraw its registration. The
Commission maintains a file of the information on this Form and will make the information publicly available. Any member of the
public may direct to the Commission any comments concerning the accuracy of the burden estimate on this Form, and any
suggestions for reducing this burden. This collection of information has been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget in
accordance with the clearance requirements of 44 U.S.C. §3507. The information contained in this form is part of a system of
records subject to the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended. The Securities and Exchange Commission has published in the Federal
Register the Privacy Act Systems of Records Notice for these records.

Copy to Jac k Habert, 12/28 /201

FORM SBSE-W

Official Use

Request for Withdrawal from Registration as a
Security-based Swap Dealer or Major Security-based Swap
Participant

INTENTIONAL MISSTATEMENTS OR OMISSIONS OF FACTS MAY CONSTITUTE FEDERAL CRIMINAL VIOLATIONS.
See 18 U.S.C. 1001 and 15 U.S.C. 78ff(a)

NOTE: Prior to filing a notice of withdrawal from registration on Form SBSE-W, an entity must update any incomplete or
inaccurate information contained on Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD, as appropriate [17 CFR 15Fb32(a)].
1. A. Full name of Security-based Swap Dealer or Major Security-based Swap Participant:

B. IRS Emp. Ident. No.:

C. Name under which business is conducted, if different:
E. Firm main address: Number and Street
F. Mailing address, if different:

City

Number and Street

2. Withdrawing from Registration as a:

D. Firm SEC, NFA, and/or CRD No.:
State/Country

Zip+4/Postal Code

City

G. Area Code / Telephone No.:

[ ] Security-based Swap Dealer

[ ] Major Security-based Swap Participant
MM

3. Date firm ceased business:

DD
/

YY
/

4. Reason security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant is seeking to withdraw from SEC registration:
[ ] Winding down all business
[ ] No longer doing security-based swap business in U.S.
[ ] Have effected less security-based swap business for
previous four quarters and no longer fit definition of major
security-based swap participant

[ ] Ceasing business as a security-based swap dealer
[ ] Ceasing business as a major security-based swap
participant
[ ] Other (describe):
________________________________________________
Yes No

[ ] [ ]
5. Does the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap participant hold any segregated counterparty collateral?
A. Number of counterparties whose collateral is held:
B. Amount of money held as collateral:
$
C. Market value of securities held as collateral:
$
D. Describe arrangements made for return of collateral:
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
yes
no
6. Is the security-based swap dealer or major security-based swap
- investigation
[ ]
[ ]
participant currently the subject of or named in any investment-related:

- customer-initiated complaint
- private civil litigation
7. Name and Address of the Person who will have Custody of Books and Records:

[ ]
[ ]

[ ]
[ ]

Area Code / Telephone No.:

Address where the Books and Records will be Located, if Different: Number and Street City State/Country ZIP + 4/Postal Code
EXECUTION: The undersigned certifies that he/she has executed this form on behalf of, and with the authority of, the security-based swap dealer or securitybased swap participant, and that all information herein, including any attachments hereto, is accurate, complete, and current. The undersigned and security-based
swap dealer or major security-based swap participant further certify that all the information previously submitted on Form SBSE, Form SBSE-A, or Form SBSE-BD,
as appropriate, is accurate and complete as of this date, and that the security-based swap dealer’s or major security-based swap participant’s books and records
will be preserved and available for inspection as required by law.

Date (MM/DD/YYYY)

Name

By:
Signature

Print Name and Title

