UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 70388 / September 13, 2013
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940
Release No. 3669 / September 13, 2013
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940
Release No. 30687 / September 13, 2013
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-15471
ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE
AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS,
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,
SECTIONS 203(e), 203(f) AND 203(k) OF THE
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940,
AND SECTION 9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT
COMPANY ACT OF 1940, MAKING
FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL
SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST
ORDER

In the Matter of
SARKAUSKAS AND
ASSOCIATES, INC. and
JAMES M. SARKAUSKAS
Respondents.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are,
instituted pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”),
Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), and
Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against
Sarkauskas and Associates, Inc. (the “Adviser”) and James M. Sarkauskas (“Sarkauskas”)
(collectively, “Respondents”).

II.
In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, the Adviser and Sarkauskas have
submitted Offers of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.
Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Exchange Act,
Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment
Company Act, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order
(“Order”), as set forth below.
III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds1 that:
Summary
1.
The Adviser and its principal, Sarkauskas, violated Sections 206(1) and (2) of the
Advisers Act when they purchased unit investment trust (“UIT”) units bearing transactional sales
charges in their clients’ accounts without disclosing that identical UIT units sold at net asset value
(“NAV”) with no transactional sales charges (“no-load”) were available for purchase and that the
Adviser’s purchases of the units bearing transactional sales charges substantially increased the
Respondents’ compensation, thereby creating a conflict of interest. Between August 2009 and
August 2012 (“the relevant period”), the Adviser, through Sarkauskas, collected $331,433.98 in
such sales charges in addition to the Adviser’s asset management fees.
Respondents
2.
The Adviser is an investment adviser incorporated in Wisconsin and located in
Rhinelander, Wisconsin. The Adviser was registered with the Commission as an investment
adviser from March 19, 1995 through July 31, 2009, when it withdrew its registration because its
assets under management fell below $25 million, the statutory minimum for registration with the
Commission at that time. It is currently registered with the State of Wisconsin.

1

The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.

2

3.
As of February 2012, the Adviser managed approximately $18 million for
approximately 140 clients. During the relevant period, the Adviser charged its advisory clients an
annual asset management fee of between .75% and 1.75% of assets under management.
4.
Sarkauskas, age 68, is a resident of Rhinelander, Wisconsin. He founded the
Adviser in 1993. During the relevant period, Sarkauskas was the Adviser’s president and chief
compliance officer and exercised control over management and policies of the Adviser. He has
been a registered representative associated with various registered broker-dealers since the 1970s.
Background
5.
During the relevant period, Sarkauskas was a registered representative associated
with a broker-dealer registered with the Commission (“broker-dealer”), and received transactionbased compensation from his brokerage activities. All of the Adviser’s clients had accounts at this
broker-dealer, where their assets were held. Sarkauskas was a registered representative of record
on all of these advisory accounts.
6.
The asset management fees charged to the clients were deducted from their
brokerage accounts, and all advisory client trades were made through the broker-dealer. Under its
agreement with Sarkauskas, the broker-dealer received 9% of the asset management fees and
transaction-based compensation charged to the advisory clients’ accounts, and it transmitted the
remaining 91% to Sarkauskas. Sarkauskas then assigned these funds to the Adviser.
7.
During the relevant period, the Adviser’s primary investment strategy was to
purchase UITs sponsored by a broker-dealer registered with the Commission (the “UIT
sponsor”). Sarkauskas established the Adviser’s practices regarding the units of UITs to be
purchased for the Adviser’s clients. He also purchased UITs for advisory clients.
8.
A UIT is a pooled investment vehicle in which a portfolio of securities is selected
by the sponsor (or its product partner) and deposited into the trust. The securities are invested
according to a specific investment objective or strategy in a fixed, unmanaged portfolio which is
held for a predetermined period of time. Most of the UITs that the Adviser purchased had
termination dates within 12 to 15 months of when they were purchased.
9.
The sales charges for the relevant UITs included the following components: 1) an
initial sales charge, which is applied to the purchase amount and is paid at the time of purchase;
and 2) a deferred sales charge, which is a fixed dollar amount deducted in periodic installments,
typically following the end of the initial offering period. The combination of the initial and
deferred sales charges was defined in the relevant UITs’ prospectuses as the "transactional sales
charge."
10.
The UIT sponsor generally makes available units of the same UIT that are identical,
except that some are sold with a transactional sales charge and others are sold at NAV with no
transactional sales charge. The no-load units are designed for fee-based accounts, where the
adviser or account manager is primarily compensated by a fee based on a fixed rate or a percentage
3

of assets in the account. The maximum transactional sales charges for the UITs purchased by
Sarkauskas were generally 2.95%.
11.
The Adviser and Sarkauskas could have purchased the same UITs on a no-load
basis for their clients. Instead, they chose to purchase units that carried transactional sales charges,
thereby substantially increasing their compensation at the expense of their clients.
12.
During the relevant period, the Adviser, through Sarkauskas, collected $331,433.98
in transactional sales charges from the sale of UITs to advisory clients, in addition to the Adviser’s
asset management fees. UIT transactional sales charges were a significant portion of the Adviser’s
revenue, comprising approximately 20% of total revenue. Moreover, in several instances, the
Adviser’s practice of collecting transactional sales charges along with asset management fees
significantly increased the clients’ overall expenses.
13.
During the relevant period, the Adviser failed to disclose the facts setting forth the
conflict of interest arising from its purchases of the UITs. The Adviser purchased UIT units
bearing transactional sales charges in its clients’ accounts without disclosing that identical no-load
UIT units were available for purchase and that the Adviser received substantially more
compensation when it purchased the units with loads.
14.
In September 2008, examiners from the Commission’s Chicago Regional Office’s
Branch of Investment Management Examinations conducted an examination of the Adviser. On
August 7, 2009, the exam staff sent the Adviser a deficiency letter which advised that the Adviser
may have violated the antifraud provisions of the Advisers Act by purchasing the UIT units that
bore transactional sales charges and by failing to disclose the conflict of interest that arose when
the Adviser purchased UIT units which bore transactional sales charges on behalf of its clients.
15.
After receiving the deficiency letter, Sarkauskas failed to change the Adviser’s
practices or disclosures relating to its purchases of UITs bearing transactional sales charges, and
continued to purchase the UITs bearing transactional sales charges.
16.
As a result of the conduct described above, the Adviser willfully violated Sections
206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act which prohibit fraudulent conduct by an investment adviser.
17.
As a result of the conduct described above, Sarkauskas willfully violated Sections
206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act which prohibit fraudulent conduct by an investment adviser.
Undertaking
18.
The Adviser has undertaken to cease operations and wind down its business
within 90 days of the entry of this Order.
19.
The Adviser has undertaken to certify, in writing, compliance with the
undertaking set forth above. The certification shall identify the undertaking, provide written
evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to
4

demonstrate compliance. The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further
evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence. The certification and
supporting material shall be submitted to Kathryn A. Pyszka, Assistant Regional Director, with a
copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty (60) days
from the date of the completion of the undertakings.
IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers.
Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 15(b) of the Exchange Act, Sections 203(e), (f) and
203(k) of the Advisers Act, and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, it is hereby
ORDERED that:
A.
The Adviser cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
B.
Sarkauskas cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any
future violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Advisers Act.
C.

Sarkauskas be, and hereby is:
barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser,
municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally
recognized statistical rating organization;
prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member
of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal
underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of such
investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter; and
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including:
acting as a promoter, finder, consultant, agent or other person who
engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for purposes of the
issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce
the purchase or sale of any penny stock.

D.
Any reapplication for association by Sarkauskas will be subject to the applicable
laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number
of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against Sarkauskas, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
5

and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
E.
The Adviser and Sarkauskas, jointly and severally, shall pay disgorgement of
$331,433.98, and prejudgment interest of $18,403.22, for a total of $349,837.20, plus post Order
interest, to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Payment shall be made in the following
installments: $150,000 of the total $349,837.20 in disgorgement and prejudgment interest within
60 days of the date of entry of the Order, and the remainder, plus any post Order interest accrued
thereon, within one year of the date of entry of the Order. Payments shall be deemed made on the
date they are received by the Commission and shall be applied first to post Order interest, which
accrues pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 on any unpaid amounts due after 30 days of issuance
of the Order. Prior to making the final payment set forth herein, Sarkauksas shall contact the staff
of the Commission for the additional amount due for the final payment. If any payment is not
made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of
disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalty, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant
to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately,
without further application. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1) Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;2
(2) Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the
SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
(3) Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal
money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and handdelivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Sarkauskas and Associates, Inc. and James M. Sarkauskas as Respondents in these proceedings,
and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must
be sent to Timothy L. Warren, Associate Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities
and Exchange Commission, 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago, IL 60604.
F.
Sarkauskas shall, within one year of the date of entry of this Order, pay a civil
money penalty in the amount of $100,000, plus any post Order interest accrued thereon, to the
Securities and Exchange Commission. Payments shall be deemed made on the date they are
received by the Commission and shall be applied first to post Order interest, which accrues
2

The minimum threshold for transmission of payment electronically is $1,000,000 as of December 31, 2012. For
amounts below the threshold, Respondents must make payments pursuant to option (2) or (3) above.

6

pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717 on any unpaid amounts due after 30 days of issuance of the Order.
Prior to making the final payment set forth herein, Sarkauksas shall contact the staff of the
Commission for the additional amount due for the final payment. If any payment is not made by
the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of disgorgement,
prejudgment interest, and civil penalty, plus any additional interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule
of Practice 600 or pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, without
further application. Payment must be made in one of the following ways:
(1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will
provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;3
(2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the
SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or
(3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal
money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and handdelivered or mailed to:
Enterprise Services Center
Accounts Receivable Branch
HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341
6500 South MacArthur Boulevard
Oklahoma City, OK 73169
Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying
Sarkauskas and Associates, Inc. and James M. Sarkauskas as Respondents in these proceedings,
and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must
be sent to Timothy L. Warren, Associate Regional Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities
and Exchange Commission, 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Suite 900, Chicago, IL 60604.
G.
Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair
Fund is created for the disgorgement, interest and civil penalty referenced in paragraphs E. and F.
above. Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid
as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government
for all purposes, including all tax purposes. To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty,
Sarkauskas agrees that in any Related Investor Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor
shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of
any part of Sarkauskas’s payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset"). If the court in
any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Sarkauskas agrees that he shall, within
30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in
this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair
Fund, as the Commission directs. Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty
and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding. For
purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a private damages action brought
3

See note 2 above.

7

against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts
as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.
H.
The disgorgement, prejudgment interest and civil penalty shall be aggregated in the
Fair Fund, which shall be maintained in the type of account directed by the Commission staff. The
Commission will appoint a Fund Administrator who will develop a distribution plan (the “Plan”)
and administer the Plan in accordance with the Commission Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement
Plans. The Fair Fund shall be used to compensate injured clients for losses resulting from the
violations determined herein and to cover the costs of administration of the Fair Fund. Any
amount remaining in the Fair Fund after all distributions have been made and costs have been paid
shall be transmitted to the Commission for transfer to the U.S. Treasury.
I.
The Adviser shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in in Section III,
Paragraphs 18 and 19 above.

By the Commission.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

8

