SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
(Release No. 34-75884; File No. 10-221)
September 10, 2015
ISE Mercury, LLC; Notice of Filing of Application for Registration as a National Securities
Exchange under Section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
On September 29, 2014, ISE Mercury, LLC (“ISE Mercury” or “Applicant”) submitted to
the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) a Form 1 application under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), seeking registration as a national securities
exchange under Section 6 of the Exchange Act.1 On June 26, 2015, ISE Mercury submitted
Amendment No. 1 to its Form 1 application.
The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on ISE Mercury’s Form 1
application, as amended. The Commission will take any comments it receives into consideration
in making its determination about whether to grant ISE Mercury’s request to be registered as a
national securities exchange. The Commission will grant the registration if it finds that the
requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to ISE
Mercury are satisfied.2
The Applicant’s Form 1 application, as amended, provides detailed information on how
ISE Mercury proposes to satisfy the requirements of the Exchange Act. The Form 1 application
also provides that ISE Mercury would operate a fully automated electronic trading platform for
the trading of listed options and would not maintain a physical trading floor. It also provides that
liquidity would be derived from orders to buy and orders to sell submitted to ISE Mercury
1

On September 9, 2015, the Commission issued an order granting the Applicant exemptive
relief, subject to certain conditions, in connection with the filing of its Form 1
application. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 75867. Because the Applicant’s
Form 1 application was incomplete without the exemptive relief, the date of filing of such
application is September 9, 2015.

2

15 U.S.C. 78s(a).

electronically by its registered broker-dealer members, as well as from quotes submitted
electronically by market makers. Further, the Form 1 application states that ISE Mercury would
be wholly-owned by its parent company, International Securities Exchange Holdings, Inc. (“ISE
Holdings”), which also is the parent company of two existing national securities exchanges, ISE
and ISE Gemini, LLC.
A more detailed description of the manner of operation of ISE Mercury’s proposed
system can be found in Exhibit E to ISE Mercury’s Form 1 application. The proposed rulebook
for the proposed exchange can be found in Exhibit B to ISE Mercury’s Form 1 application, and
the governing documents for both ISE Mercury and ISE Holdings can be found in Exhibit A and
Exhibit C to ISE Mercury’s Form 1 application, respectively. A listing of the officers and
directors of ISE Mercury can be found in Exhibit J to ISE Mercury’s Form 1 application.
ISE Mercury’s Form 1 application, including all of the Exhibits referenced above, is
available online at www.sec.gov/rules/other.shtml as well as in the Commission’s Public
Reference Room. Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments
concerning ISE Mercury’s Form 1, including whether the application is consistent with the
Exchange Act.
Comments may be submitted by any of the following methods:
Electronic comments:


Use the Commission’s Internet comment form (http://www.sec.gov/rules/sro.shtml); or



Send an e-mail to rule-comments@sec.gov. Please include File Number 10-221 on the
subject line.

2

Paper comments:


Send paper comments in triplicate to Brent J. Fields, Secretary, Securities and Exchange
Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-1090.

All submissions should refer to File Number 10-221. This file number should be included on the
subject line if e-mail is used. To help the Commission process and review your comments more
efficiently, please use only one method. The Commission will post all comments on the
Commission’s Internet website (http://www.sec.gov/rules/other.shtml). Copies of the
submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to ISE Mercury’s
Form 1 filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the application
between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public
in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for website viewing and
printing in the Commission’s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549,
on official business days between the hours of 10:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m. All comments received
will be posted without change; the Commission does not edit personal identifying information
from submissions. You should submit only information that you wish to make publicly

3

available. All submissions should refer to File Number 10-221 and should be submitted on or
before [insert date 45 days from publication in the Federal Register].
For the Commission, by the Division of Trading and Markets, pursuant to delegated
authority.3

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

17 CFR 200.30-3(a)(57).
4

