UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 76827 / January 5, 2016
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-16916

In the Matter of
ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND
IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

JEFFREY A. KING,
Respondent.

I.
The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) previously instituted
proceedings in this matter on October 22, 2015. The Commission now deems it appropriate and in
the public interest to enter this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions Pursuant
to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Jeffrey A. King
(“Respondent” or “King”).
II.
Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has
determined to accept. Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and
the subject matter of these proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2. below, which
are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing
Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Order”), as
set forth below.

III.
On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:
1.
In late 2007, Respondent was an independent contractor for Garfield Taylor,
Incorporated (“GTI”), a Maryland corporation with its principal office in Washington, DC, which
purported to offer various services, including real estate development and construction, options
trading and mortgage marketing. In this role, King made use of the means or instrumentalities of
interstate commerce to promote GTI’s investments and solicit new investors in exchange for
commission payments based on the amounts invested, but he was not registered as a broker or
associated with a registered broker. In late 2007 and early 2008, Respondent and others conceived
of and organized Gibraltar Asset Management Group, LLC (“GAM”), a Virginia limited liability
company with its principal office in Washington, DC, which purported to be in the business of
investing in covered call options. King was GAM’s President and Chief Operating Officer until
February 2009. Respondent, 57 years old, is a resident of Upper Marlboro, Maryland.
2.
On September 28, 2015, a final judgment was entered by default against King,
permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933
(“Securities Act”) and Sections 15(a)(1) and 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder,
in the civil action entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Garfield Taylor, Incorporated,
et al., Civil Action Number 1:11-cv-02054-RC, in the United States District Court for the District
of Columbia.
3.
The Commission’s complaint alleged that, from late 2007 until February 2009,
King assisted in the perpetration of an offering fraud and Ponzi scheme operated through GTI and
GAM that defrauded over 130 investors, primarily middle-class residents and charitable
organizations in the Washington, DC metropolitan area, of more than $27 million.
4.
The complaint alleged that King helped to persuade investors to invest in securities
issued by GTI and assisted in the preparation and distribution of GAM’s marketing materials to
promote the sale of its securities, which were riddled with materially false and misleading
statements. The alleged false and misleading statements included misrepresentations related to
above-market rates of return and the safety of the investments. The complaint alleged, however,
that investor funds were traded in a highly risky and speculative trading strategy, used to pay
purported interest payments to other investors and make other improper payments, including
$62,893 to a company owned by King. The complaint also alleged that King received at least
$20,000 in an “owners distribution” after GAM had successfully solicited and received significant
investor funds by means of the material misrepresentations. The complaint alleged that King
promoted GTI’s investments and solicited new investors in exchange for commission payments
based on the amounts invested, but he was not registered as a broker or associated with a registered
broker.

2

IV.
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent King’s Offer.
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act that
Respondent King be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment
adviser, municipal securities dealer, or transfer agent; and
Pursuant to Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act Respondent King be, and hereby is
barred from participating in any offering of a penny stock, including: acting as a promoter, finder,
consultant, agent or other person who engages in activities with a broker, dealer or issuer for
purposes of the issuance or trading in any penny stock, or inducing or attempting to induce the
purchase or sale of any penny stock.
Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following: (a) any
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order;
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct
that served as the basis for the Commission order.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Brent J. Fields
Secretary

3

