UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
Before the
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
Release No. 70151 / August 9, 2013

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING
File No. 3-12372

In the Matter of
WADDELL & REED, INC.,
WADDELL & REED INVESTMENT
MANAGEMENT COMPANY, AND
WADDELL & REED SERVICES
COMPANY,

ORDER APPROVING
PLAN OF DISTRIBUTION,
APPOINTING A FUND
ADMINISTRATOR,
AND WAIVING BOND
REQUIREMENT

Respondents.

On July 24, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) issued an
Order Instituting Administrative And Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 15(b)
and 17A(c) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and Sections 9(b) and 9(f) of the Investment Company Act of
1940, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order
(“Order”) against Waddell & Reed, Inc., Waddell & Reed Investment Management Company,
and Waddell & Reed Services Company (collectively the “Respondents”) (Exchange Act Rel.
No. 54193 (July 24, 2006)). Pursuant to the Order, the Commission authorized the establishment
of a Fair Fund, comprised of $50,000,000 in disgorgement and a civil penalty paid by
Respondents, for distribution to investors affected by three accountholders who engaged in shortterm trading of the Waddell & Reed mutual fund complex (“W&R Funds”) harming those funds
by diluting the returns of other investors. The Order provided that the Fair Fund was to be
distributed pursuant to a distribution plan developed by an Independent Distribution Consultant.
The Respondents retained James C. Meehan of Cornerstone Research, Inc. as the Independent
Distribution Consultant (“IDC”), who has developed a proposed distribution plan (the
“Distribution Plan”) in consultation with the Division of Enforcement and Respondents.
On April 23, 2013, the Commission issued a “Notice of Proposed Plan of Distribution
and Opportunity for Comment” (“Notice”) in connection with this proceeding pursuant to Rule
1103 of the Commission’s Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1103

(Exchange Act Rel. No. 69437 (Apr. 23, 2013)). This Notice advised interested parties that they
could obtain a copy of the proposed plan of distribution (“Distribution Plan”) of monies placed into
the Fair Fund by printing a copy from the Commission’s public website or by submitting a written
request to Nancy Burton, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE,
Washington, DC 20549-5631.
The Notice also advised that all persons desiring to comment on the Distribution Plan could
submit their views, in writing, no later than thirty days from the date of the Notice, to the Office of
the Secretary, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington,
DC 20549-1090; by using the Commission’s Internet comment form; or by sending an e-mail to
rule-comments@sec.gov. The Commission received no comments on the Distribution Plan.
The Distribution Plan provides for investors to receive monies from the Fair Fund that
represent their proportionate share of losses suffered by the fund due to market timing by the Timers
and a proportionate share of advisory fees paid by funds that suffered losses during the period of
market timing from December 1, 1998 through October 31, 2003. The plan is designed to allocate
the Fair Fund among the W&R Funds accountholders who held shares in the Accumulative,
Continental Income, Core Investment, International Growth, New Concepts, Science &
Technology, Small Cap, Value, and Vanguard funds. The methods of calculation of each eligible
investor’s share of the Fair Fund are intended to result in payment to each eligible investor that
restores the impaired value of the investor’s investment in the harmed funds plus a partial refund of
advisory fees. Each accountholder with positive net dilution within a fund above a minimum
threshold will receive a prorated share of the settlement that is a multiple of their aggregate net
dilution within that fund (“Eligible Investor”). The Eligible Investors will not be required to make a
claim or submit documentation to establish their eligibility.
The Distribution Plan also proposes Rust Consulting, Inc. as the Fund Administrator and
sets forth, among other things, procedures for the administration of the Fair Fund, including a
proposed timeframe for the termination of the Distribution Plan.
The Distribution Plan proposes that Rust Consulting, Inc. not be required to post a bond
generally required of third parties under Fair Fund Rule 1105(c). The Distribution Plan states
that good cause for waiver exists for the reasons that follow: (1) the Fund Administrator will
have no custody, and only limited control, of the Fair Fund; (2) the Fair Fund will be held by the
U.S. Treasury Bureau of Public Debt until the funds are transferred to the Escrow Bank
immediately before transmittal of checks or electronic transfers to eligible investors; (3) upon
transfer from the U.S. Treasury, funds will be held in an escrow account, separate from the
Escrow Bank’s assets until presentation of a check or electronic transfer, at which time funds
will be transferred to a controlled distribution account; (4) presented checks or electronic
transfers will be subject to “positive pay” controls before being honored by the Escrow Bank;
and (5) both the Escrow Bank and the Fund Administrator will maintain, throughout this process,
insurance and/or a financial institution bond that covers errors and omissions, misfeasance and
fraud.
The Division of Enforcement requests that the Commission:
(1) Approve the Distribution Plan as proposed;
(2) Appoint Rust Consulting, Inc. as the Fund Administrator; and
2

(3) Waive the bond requirement for good cause shown.
Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, pursuant to Rule 1104 of the Commission’s
Rules on Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1104, that the Distribution Plan is
approved.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED, pursuant to Rule 1105 of the Commission’s Rules on Fair
Fund and Disgorgement Plans, 17 C.F.R. § 201.1105, that Rust Consulting, Inc. is appointed as the
Fund Administrator in accordance with the terms of the Distribution Plan and that the bond
requirement is waived for good cause shown.
For the Commission, by its Secretary, pursuant to delegated authority.

Elizabeth M. Murphy
Secretary

3

