International Journal of Education and Social Science

www.ijessnet.com

Vol. 1 No. 2; September 2014

Human Resource Management and Its Importance for Today’s Organizations
Zehra Alakoç Burma, PhD, Edu.
Assistant Professor
Higher Vocational School of Mersin
Mersin University
Mersin, Turkey.

Abstract
Today in the world, global competition is the basic element to define firms’ strategies as
a result industrial economy has been experienced to pass toward to knowledge economy.
At an age where total quality is of primary importance, efficiency can only be achieved
by the successful utilization of human resources. Human resource management is one of
the necessary needs of today’s business. Human resource management department has a
very important role for supply of the human being to main resources of companies.
Human resource management department has fundamental role for personnel recruiting,
orientation and performance appraisal and so on. Human resource management issues to
be addressed at the highest level in the organization and management of strategic
decisions are required. This research will inform human resource management, scope
and affecting factors on human resource management, human resource management
functions and relationship between organizational effectiveness and human resources
management.
Key words: Human Resources Management, Management, Management Functions,
Organizational Effectiveness
1. Introduction
Today in the world, global competition is the basic element to define firms’ strategies as a result
industrial economy has been experienced to pass toward to knowledge economy. As being a competitive
market development day by day it’s very difficult to enhance sustainable growth for the firms’ side. All
researchers and practitioners are aware of the advantages and disadvantages of a competitive work
environment and try to find ways for adapting to competitive conditions. These efforts have mostly
focused on human resource management practices in the last two decades especially with the emergence
of strategic human resource management approach.
There is a considerable difference between the prospects or prescriptions in favor of the “investment in
man”, and the practices of the companies. Human resources function is well developed and completely
recognized, its importance is increasing, but nothing makes it possible to think that the most traditional
constraints and priorities were confused: the control of market, requirements of finance and short-term
profitability, surveillance of competitors, the possibility of recruiting a well-educated labor under
advantageous conditions: many factors invite to found the idea of “strategy of human resources”.
The relationship between perceived sufficiency of Human Resource Management practices, personorganization fit, and person-job fit has not been examined before. In the present study, it is hypothesized
that perceived sufficiency of HRM practices contributes to actual and perceived person-organization fit
and perceived person-job fit.
85

©Research Institute for Progression of Knowledge

www.ripknet.org

That is, if HRM practices are perceived as sufficient, the employee will have a better sense of fit with
the organization and the job. In addition, the other hypothesis asserts that anxiety will influence the
positive relationship between perceived sufficiency of HRM practices and person-organization fit and
person-job fit. That is, although HRM practices are perceived as sufficient, persons with high anxiety
may not have a better sense of fit with the organization and the job.
It is a necessity that the strategic approach to human resources issues to be addressed in modern
organizations. Changing internal and external environmental conditions and new problems emerging and
complex understanding of management-organization is the most important source of competitive
advantage must not forget to give strategic importance to man. Into almost every part of the world as a
result of globalization, operations, growth, downsizing, mergers, restructuring and corporate
responsibility as the lives in the process, introduced concepts such as active and working every day to
try a new technique in the management of human resources in organizations, management is becoming a
very big importance and priority. Therefore, human resource management issues to be addressed at the
highest level in the organization and management of strategic decisions are required. People in all
matters related to the organization as a whole is brought together and integrate in a way compatible with
its surroundings. Managers with strategic decisions and practices focus on results and it should reflect
the thoughts and actions.
As the technology presents new solutions to the organizations, HRM departments start using cuttingedge technology solutions in the market. Purchasing the best-of-breed tool in the market seems the best
solution. However, using tools directly commercial-off-the shelf brought new problems rather than
informing the business processes.
Human resource management literature has generally focused on the constructs of commitment, job
satisfaction, and organizational effectiveness. The fit between persons and organizations, and persons
and jobs is a neglected area. However, when one considers the intended goals of HRM practices, a sense
of fit may be suggested as an expected target. Thus, it seems worth studying whether the positive views
of employees about HRM practices makes a difference in terms of their fit with the organization and the
jobs that they undertake.
Previous studies have revealed that person-organization fit has significant effects on organizational
commitment, performance, positive work attitudes, turnover intention, and the like. But the antecedents
of person-organization fit have not been studied as frequent as the outcomes of person organization fit.
Among the few antecedents that have been studied, organizational entry and socialization can be
mentioned. The present study aims to make a contribution to the literature by examining the perceived
sufficiency of HRM practices as an antecedent of person-organization fit.
2. Human Resource Management (HRM)
Although it was commonly accepted that HRM practices had formally started with industrial revolution,
the fact is that the roots of HRM lie deep in the past. Just as the employees who shared the tasks that
have to be done in modern organizations, humans in ancient societies also, divided work among
themselves. So it can be said that division of labor has been practiced since prehistoric times. Tasks
were allocated according to skills such as the ability to find food or plants, track animals or cook (Price,
2007) but the major contribution to the development of the HRM systems is provided by industrial
revolution in the 1800’s.
The terms of human resource management (HRM) and human resources (HR) have largely replaced
instead of personnel management (PM) in the processes of managing people in the organizations. While
human resource management is defined as a strategic and coherent approach for the organization’s most
valued assets behind on the workers, there is no upon description of it. Personnel department is mostly
to manage the paperwork around hiring and paying people.
86

International Journal of Education and Social Science

www.ijessnet.com

Vol. 1 No. 2; September 2014

More recently, organizations consider the HR department as playing a major role in staffing, training
and helping to manage people so that people and the organization are performing at maximum capability
in a highly fulfilling manner (McNamara, 1998). In the global business, HRM is increasingly
considered a contemporary development to reshape employment relationships as a tool that may have
effectively replaced other management traditions like Personnel Management (PM) and Industrial
Relations (IR) (Marchington & Wilkinson, 2002).
Since the 1980s, human resource management (HRM) strategy has become an important topic for the
management area, HRM strategy has achieved its prominence because it provides competitiveness and
promote managerial efficiency in the business area. The rise of human resource management in the
1980s brought managerial scholars to the link between the management of people and performance. A
number of attempts were made to put empirical facts with the theoretical bones of the knowledge based
firms and the specific HRM views concerning how the systems on HR practice, which can make an
increment on the organizational performance. The approach that focuses on individual HR practices and
the link with the performance continued since early 1990s (Hendry & Pettigrew, 1990).
HRM is used in a global context which contains ; “(a) specific human resource practices such as
recruitment, selection, and appraisal; (b) formal human resource policies, which direct and partially
constrain the development of specific practices; and (c) overarching human resource philosophies,
which specify the values that inform an organization's policies and practices (Gilley et.al. 2002).
2.1. Scope of HRM
As HRM has tools of a system which attracts, develops, motivates, and retains the effective functioning
related with the people managing, the scope of HRM is very wide. Researches in behavioral sciences
show that new trends in managing workers and advances in the field of training have expanded the
scope of HR function in recent years. The Indian Institute of Personnel Management has specified the
scope of HRM thus (Truss, 2001):
ha

 Personnel aspect: This is concerned with manpower planning, recruitment, selection, placement,
transfer, promotion, training and development, lay off and retrenchment, remuneration,
incentives, productivity, etc.
 Welfare aspect: It deals with working conditions and amenities such as canteens, creches, rest
and lunch rooms, housing, transport, medical assistance, education, health and safety, recreation
facilities, etc.
 Industrial relations aspect: This covers union-management relations, joint consultation, collective
bargaining, grievance and disciplinary procedures, settlement of disputes, etc.

The main aim of the human resources management is using the salaried staff in an organization
effectively and salutary for the organization’s benefits. Thanks to this productive work environment,
organization can reach its goals and continue its functions.
Today, operating organizations continue their existence for different goals according to organization’s
type and aims. These organizations can be classified as private, non-governmental and public
establishment. While the preferential aim of the public establishments are fulfilling the public’s needs,
private establishments’ aim is earning profit. Non-governmental (civil) establishments’ aim is fulfilling
the public’s needs and carrying on their business like public establishments (Akçakaya, 2010). These
three kind of establishments’ common aim is giving quality service. There is an important issue to be
considered here: All these three organizations need a common ground. This common ground is human
resource.No matter how strong the financial resources of an organization, probability of success will be
low if the human resources do not have sufficient activity. Low effectiveness of human resources means
that the organization slogs on reaching the targets set for the future and profitability level.
87

©Research Institute for Progression of Knowledge

www.ripknet.org

Another important matter is the opinions of the employees about the organizations that they work for. In
this point, the performance pf the employees depends on the their satisfaction of the work (Uyargil et.al.,
2010). Employees’ salary, communication with their colleagues and managers, social and regal rights
provided by the organization, working conditions, and effects of the organization on employees are
belong to human resources managements’ area to fulfill. Making the necessary arrangements will lead to
increased motivation. With increased motivation, employees will connected to their works and at the
same time they will be more productive and successful on their works.
Aims of human resource management can change with the definition that you make. Because, as the
definition varies from one researcher to another, the aims of HRM can also change in accordance with
the researchers’ or practitioners’ points of view. For example, according to Armstrong (2006, p.8), “the
overall purpose of human resource management is to ensure that the organization is able to achieve
success through people.” Also, he pointed out that “HRM strategies aim to support programs for
improving organizational effectiveness by developing policies in such areas as knowledge management,
talent management, and generally creating ‘a great place to work’. ”
Like Armstrong (2006), Barutçugil (2004) also dealt with the aims of the HRM and he defined these
aims in a similar way. A common point emphasized by these researchers is obtaining organizational
goals through the employee. According to
Barutçugil (2004), HRM aims (as quoted in Aray, 2008, p.4):









To help all employees reach optimal performance and to use fully their capacity and potential,
To convince employees to exert more effort for reaching organizational goals,
To use human resources in an optimum way to reach organizational goals,
To meet employees’ career expectations and development,
To unify organizational plans and HR strategies and create and maintain a corporate culture,
To offer a working environment stimulating hidden creativity and energy,
To create work conditions stimulating innovation, teamwork, and total quality concept,
To encourage flexibility for achieving learning organization.

As it is mentioned above, being interrelated with all departments and external environment makes HRM
a much more complex system, and HRM practices increasingly assume new responsibilities that are
related with organizations. For that reason, researchers might have emphasized different aims or
purposes of the HRM system.
2.2. Affecting Factors on HRM
Traditionally, the personnel function centered on control and direction of employees for achievement of
predetermined goals. The Human Resources Approach, in direct contrast to this, recognizes the worth of
human being in the realization of corporate goals. It takes a supportive and developmental route to
achieve results through the cooperative efforts of employees. When opportunities for growth and
enhancement of skills are available, people will be stimulated to give their best, leading to greater job
satisfaction and organizational effectiveness. The manager’s role, too, has undergone a dramatic change
over the years. From control and direction of employees, he is expected to move toward clarifying goals
and paths and creating a supportive and growth oriented environment, where people are willing to take
up assigned roles willingly and enthusiastically (Kumar, 2009). The effective use of people is the most
critical factor in the successful accomplishment of corporate goals. To be effective, therefore, Human
Resource managers need to understand the needs, aspirations, and concerns of employees proactively,
face the challenges head-on and resolve issues amicably. They are expected to successfully evolve an
appropriate corporate culture, take a strategic approach to the acquisition, motivation and development
of human resources and introduce programs that reflect and support the core values of the organization
and its people.
88

International Journal of Education and Social Science

www.ijessnet.com

Vol. 1 No. 2; September 2014

This is easier said than done in view of constant changes in environment characterized by the following
things (Hendry et all, 1990).
Size Of Workforce: Corporate have grown in size considerably in recent years, thanks to global
competition in almost all fields. The size of the work force, consequently, has increased, throwing up
additional challenges before HR managers in the form of additional demands for better pay, benefits and
working conditions from various sections of the workforce constantly.
Composition Of Workforce: The workforce composition is also changing over the years. The rising
percentage of women and minorities in the work force is going to alter workplace equations
dramatically. Demands for equal pay for equal work, putting an end to gender inequality and bias in
certain occupations, the breaking down of grass ceiling have already been met.
Employee Expectations: “Instead of attempting to force employees to conform to ‘corporate mould’
future managers may well have to make more allowances for individual differences in people.” (Hendry
et all, 1990).
3. Human Resource Management Functions
In general, human resources management aims to increase contributions of employees in organizations.
Those contributions are new ideas, productively working and success. Human resources management
should be responsible for social aims. This means human resources managers should behave fairly to
social ethical norms and at the same time they should minimize the negative forces on organizations
because of their demands from organizations. Human resources management is also responsible for
organizations this it can be guessable from the concept. Their aims firstly establish fairly and higher
standards of working places for every worker.
Robinson defined HRM role is the provision of assistance in HRM issues to line employees, or those
directly involved in producing the organization’s goods and services. Acquiring people’s services,
developing their skills, motivating them to high levels of performance, and ensuring their continuing
maintenance and commitment to the organization are essential to achieving organizational goals. The
authors proposed an HRM specific approach as consisting of four functions- staffing, training and
development, motivation, and maintenance (1997).
In addition, Bratton and Gold (2003) define HRM as the strategic approach to managing employment
relations which emphasizes that leveraging people’s capabilities is critical to achieving sustainable
competitive advantage. This is achieved through a distinctive set of integrated employment policies,
programs and practices. The authors presented HRM functions as planning, recruitment and selection,
appraisal and performance management, reward management, development, employee relations, health
and safety, and union-management relations (Bratton & Jeffrey, 2003).
According to Dessler and his friends, function of HRM include assisting the organization in attracting
the quality and quantity of candidates required with respect to the organization’s strategy and
operational goals, staffing needs, and desired culture. Helping to maintain performance standards and
increase productivity through orientation, training, development, job design, effective communication,
and performance appraisal. Helping to create a climate in which employees are encouraged to develop
and utilize their skills to the fullest. Helping to establish and maintain cordial working relationship with
employees. Helping to create and maintain safe and healthy work environment.
Development of programs to meet economic, psychological, and social needs of the employees. Helping
the organization to retain productive employees and ensuring that the organization complies with
provincial/territorial and federal laws affecting the work place such as human rights, employment
equity, occupational health and safety (Dessler et.all. 1999).
89

©Research Institute for Progression of Knowledge

www.ripknet.org

Human resource management that is should be evaluated on the basis of business as a whole and the
human resource management functions cannot be considered independent from each other. As it is
mentioned before, Human Resource Management in accordance with the organization's culture, accurate
and up-to-earth as part of a specific strategy of the organization to continue its activities is an inevitable
necessity. Doubtlessly, the basic functions of Human Resource Management should be processed in the
context of the strategies because both at the point of corporate sustainability and corporate activities they
undertake an active role in the successful sustainability are accepted.
In human resource management, to provide the sufficient number of employees timely a plan should be
made considering the organization’s present potential, development trend and strategic targets. It is
called as human resource management which aims using the present human resources wisely, supplies
the future human resource needs in terms of quality and quantity (Akyüz, 2001).
According to Barutcugil, when there is a need in the organization, human resource management is an
operation which provides the proper employees for the organization. Human resource planning is a
process in which the employees are evaluated from the entrance to the exit of the work. Human resource
planning should be determined according to organization’s vision, mission and strategies. The required
number of the employees, their quality, how and to what extent they should work are connected to the
human resource management. With the planning, human resources are prevented from being less or
more than the necessary (Barutçugil, 2004).
The quality of human resources in an organization depends on the success in recruiting process largely.
In the employee selection process, cannot finding sufficient number of candidates, who have
competence with the job, may lead not to fill some empty jobs and recruitment of noncompeting
employees in the context of the job. It will result with some negative events such as increase in
efficiency as well as increase in wage costs, laborforce transfer, job accidents, decrease in motivation
and thus in job satisfaction, increase in supervision costs of the business that the employee recruited
does not bear the qualities of the job in full. If the qualities of the employee. If the candidate's features is
not meeting with the qualifications that employees is looking for, then in this situation, it is said to be
made wrong employee choice.
Directly related to Human Resources planning is selection and recruitment of right people from internal
or external sources. This obviously is another critical issue for HRM as it is directly related to cost and
overall performance of the organization. Chawdhury (2002) emphasizes the importance of a talented
workforce as “in an era of competition the growth of any organization is proportional to the growth of its
talent.”
As important as selection and recruitment is to retain good employees and to encourage them to give of
their best. Therefore consistent reward systems are interrelated to objective, defined and consistent
performance appraisal systems. Taylor (2009) states that four points are important to make the employee
“fall in love” with the organization: Reward fairly in line with market place, treat well: i.e. focus in
recognition of every employee’s contribution, train and improve skills and develop talented people.
Human Resources planning in other words manpower planning is one of the important functions of any
organization. According to Savaş (2006) the objectives of human resources planning are:





To determine the manpower required according to the development plans of the organization ,
To control the manpower costs which have an important effect on profitability ,
To make the human resources work more effectively and efficiently,
To highlight the career development of the employees as well as cover their needs and improve
their work condition to make them work highly motivated,
 To determine the salary norms , to make job appraisals objectively and the wages accordingly,
 To relate manpower supply and organizations manpower demand.
90

International Journal of Education and Social Science

www.ijessnet.com

Vol. 1 No. 2; September 2014

4. Relationship between Organizational Effectiveness and Human Resources Management
Most of the early reviews of the literature were published by notable industrial psychologists as cited in
Ferris (et al., 1999). As a consequence, these reviews tended to emphasize applied individual-level
issues, such as employee testing, training and motivation.
Gilmer’s (1960) discussion of situational variables explicated the importance of matching personnel
strategies with organizational strategies. Further, Gilmer invited researchers to design measures to assess
the relationship between “individual personalities” and “company personalities” (1960 as cited in Ferris
et al., 1999).
Some researchers have proposed that evaluations of effectiveness should be based on financial measures
(e.g., profit) and for years, human resources issues have been secondary to such measures. Today, many
CEOs agree that profit alone is not enough to hold the enthusiasm and loyalties of employees or to call
attention to the vital elements of a business that must receive attention if it is to perform effectively
(Watson, 1991 as cited in Zellars & Fiorito, 1999). Under the threat of exit (Hill & Jones, 1992),
organizations now recognize that they must fulfil responsibilities to many constituencies (Baumhart,
1968; Clarkson, 1991 as cited in Zellars & Fiorito, 1999), including employees.
Mohrman & Lawler III, (1997) advocates that an organization is created in which the human resource
management practices of the past no longer fit. Organizations are faced with a situation that cries out for
new solutions to the thorny challenges of integrating business and people needs.
Acquaah (2004) states that human resource management practices enhance organizational effectiveness
and performance by attracting, identifying, and retaining employees with knowledge, skills, and
abilities, and getting them to behave in a manner that will support the mission and objectives of the
organization. Thus, the effectiveness of HRM practices depends on how it engenders the appropriate
attitudes and behaviors in employees, in addition to its implementation.
Today, HR departments are expected to contribute to organizational performance (Ettore, et al. 1996;
Fitz-enz, 1994; Mathes, 1993), and many organizations now believe that the success of the strategic
management process largely depends on the extent to which the HR function is involved (Butler, et al.
1991 as cited in Zellars & Fiorito, 1999).
Studies at the last decade (e.g., Arthur, 1994; Delery & Dory, 1996; Huselid, 1995; Huselid & Becker,
1996; Huselid, Jackson & Schuler, 1997 as cited in Dyer & Shafer, 1998) have reported rather large
effects on such outcomes as employee turnover, productivity, quality, profits, and even stock prices.
Trouble is, for a variety of methodological reasons - including unreliable measures of HRM and OE,
common method variance, poorly specified models, and cross-sectional rather than longitudinal research
designs - these estimates strain credibility to the point of incredulity (Becker & Gerhart, 1996 as cited in
Dyer & Shafer, 1998).
Over time, employees who feel neglected will seek alternatives and may withdraw either through
increased absenteeism and turnover or decreased commitment. This may threaten the firm’s survival or
at least hinder its success as other sources of competitive advantage such as scale economies and
protected markets wane – “what remains as a crucial, differentiating factor is the organization, its
employees, and how they work” (Pfeffer, 1994, p.14 as cited in Zellars & Fiorito, 1999).
It is important that a firm adopt HRM practices that make best use of its employees. This trend has led to
increased interest in the impact of HRM on organizational performance, and a number of studies have
found a positive relationship between so-called “high-performance work practices” (Huselid, 1995) and
different measures of company performance. Furthermore, there is some empirical support for the
hypothesis that firms, which align their HRM practices with their business strategy, will achieve
superior outcomes (Bae & Lawler, 1999).
91

©Research Institute for Progression of Knowledge

www.ripknet.org

Denison (1990 as cited in Schneider et al., 2003) measured employee attitudes in 34 publicly held firms
and correlated aggregated employee attitudes with organizational financial performance for 5 successive
years after the attitude data were collected. He found that organizations in which employees reported
that an emphasis was placed on human resources tended to have superior short-term financial
performance.
Recent years have witnessed burgeoning interest in the degree to which human resource systems
contribute to organizational effectiveness. Pfeffer (1994, 1998 as cited in Datta, Guthrie & Wright,
2005), for example, argued that success in today’s hypercompetitive markets depends less on advantages
associated with economies of scale, technology, patents, and access to capital and more on innovation,
speed, and adaptability. Pfeffer further argued that these latter sources of competitive advantage are
largely derived from firms’ human resources.
An organization needs to adopt specific HR policies and practices for different strategies. Thus, to be
effective, an organization’s HR policies must be consistent with other aspects of the organization. By
having appropriate HR policies and practices in place, organizations can elicit employee behaviors that
are consistent with an organization’s strategy (Rose & Kumar, 2006).
It is obvious that HR management practices should be an important part of the strategy of any large
corporation. Yet researchers basing their views on a behavioral psychology perspective have argued that
human resource management practices could contribute to competitive advantage as long as they
reinforce the skills, attitudes and behaviors that result in lowering costs and enhancing product
differentiation. Therefore, the important role of human resources practices in contributing to a firm’s
competitive advantage overlaps with the concept of efficiency as a human resources strategy for
effective performance (Ozcelik & Ferman, 2006).
5. Conclusion
Corporations are undergoing dramatic changes with significant implications for how human resources
are managed and the HR function is best organized and managed. The forces driving change include the
rapid deployment of information technology, globalization of the economy, and the increasingly
competitive dynamic business environments that corporations face. There is a growing consensus that
effective human capital is critical to an organization's success and that the HR function's focus must be
more strategic.
An effective Human Resources Management gives chance employees to contribute effectively and
productively to the overall company direction and the accomplishment of the organization's goals and
objectives. In working life, the most important value is employees. That is why Human Resources
Management is the key factor for success of a business. Being a global world and being a part of global
competitive markets processes force businesses to manage human factor more truly for every level.
A growing number of sources in HRM literature support the change and development of Human
Resources perspectives from personnel management to HRM and then to Strategic HRM; they claim
that, the human resources are the companies’ most important assets, and effective management of these
resources will contribute to the sustainable competitive advantage of firms. With the increasing value of
employees as individuals, management of human resources with a classical approach is no longer
satisfactory. This has led to the necessity of adopting a different administrative approach. As a result, the
significance of human resources management has increased among other functions of administration.
Nowadays; management of human resources is a rising star and a focus of attention in contemporary
managing platform. The main reason for such an attention is the comprehension of the human factor by
many institutions. It has been realized that employment of individuals efficiently by force and
intimidation is not possible and more emphasis has been placed on methods and opportunities that
enable people to work willingly.
92

International Journal of Education and Social Science

www.ijessnet.com

Vol. 1 No. 2; September 2014

At an age where total quality is of primary importance, efficiency can only be achieved by the successful
utilization of human resources. Because, information that has given its name to this period is the product
of human beings.
There is a consensus in the HRM field that, in order to stay competitive and reach business goals, high
level managers must incorporate Human Resource Management strategies into their overall planning. A
company’s competitive success depends on having well informed and capable HR managers at the
highest levels of decision making processes.
Human capital theory aims using HRM to increase the value of the organization's human capital and the
value of the anticipated returns, such as productivity gains in the context literature where transaction
cost theory has the perspective of economics. While the organizations are developing day by day agency
theory appears to be particularly useful for understanding executive and managerial compensation
practices and to predict occupation-based differences in job pricing methods.
Human resources with developed talents and creativity who are able to reach and utilize information
constitute the main power of competition in the world market. Those companies and institutions that
make investments on human resources and attempt to create working conditions that are compatible with
their requirements and wishes, are the ones who reach success. The employees are the biggest support
that institutions need during renovation periods. Institutions that were able to please their employees in
the past and were able to implement loyalty and trust, can endure difficulties more easily. The merit
given to humans not only increases personal productivity but it also uplifts the quality of the company
and the team. The main purpose of human resources management is the employment of human resources
in the most efficient and productive way. Nowadays; the success of institutions is evaluated by their
communication. Communication is the power of competition in production and service. Sharing
information with the all the employees and managers, production of information, its distribution and
reflection to daily life and service constitute the main structure of communication inside the institution.
Human resource management is one of the necessary needs of today’s business. Human resource
management department has a very important role for supply of the human being to main resources of
companies. Human resource management department has fundamental role for personnel recruiting,
orientation and performance appraisal and so on. The performance evaluation within this process, it’s
not only for evaluate of employees performance therewithal it’s important to get strengthening of the
bond between employee and employer. Performance evaluation is one of the important matters for
companies getting successful. If the companies can use to performance evaluation correctly, it’s bring to
successful performance management and then bring success of the company. The aim of this study to
give some information about human resource management and underline important of human resource
department is then make prelude to performance evaluation and give some information about
performance appraisal process.
References
Acquaah, M. (2004). Human factor theory, organizational citizenship behaviors and human resources
management practices: An integration of theoretical constructs and suggestions for measuring the
human factor. Review of Human Factor Studies, Vol. 10(1), 118-151.
Akçakaya, M. (2010). İnsan Kaynakları Yönetimi İnsan Kaynakları Planlaması Norm Kadro Uygulaması, 1.
Baskı, Turhan Kitapevi, Ankara, p.17.
Akyüz, Ömer Faruk (2001). Değişim Rüzgarında Stratejik İnsan Kaynakları Planlaması, Sistem,
Aray, S. T. (2008). Effects of Perceived Sufficiency of HRM Practices on Organizational Commitment and
Intent to Quit. Unpublished Doctoral Dissertation, Marmara University
Armstrong, M. (2006). A Handbook of Human Resource Management Practice. (10th Ed.) . London: Kogan
Page Limited.
93

©Research Institute for Progression of Knowledge

www.ripknet.org

Bae, J. & Lawler, J. J. (1999). Organizational and HRM strategies in Korea: Impact on firm performance in
an emerging economy. Academy of Management Journal, Vol.
43(3), 502-517.
Barutçugil, İsmet: "Stratejik İnsan Kaynakları Yönetimi", Kariyer, 2004.
Bratton John and Gold Jeffrey (2003) Human Resource Management: Theory and Practice third edition
London: Palgrave Macmillan
Chowdhury, S. (2002) The Talent Era : Achieving A High Return On Talent . Financial Times. Prentice Hall.
New York.
Datta, D. K., Guthrie, J. P. & Wright, P. M. (2005). Human resource management and labor productivity:
Does industry matter? Academy of Management Journal, Vol. 48(1), 135-145.
Dessler Gary, Cole Nina D., and Sutherland Virginia L. (1999) Human Resources Management In Canada
seventh edition. Prentice-Hall Canada Inc. Scarborough, Ontario
Dyer, L. & Shafer, R.A. (1998). From human resource strategy to organizational effectiveness: Lessons from
research on organizational agility. CAHRS working papers (98-12), Cornell University
Ferris, G. R., Arthur, M. M., Berkson, H. M., Kaplan, D. M., Harrell-Cook, G. & Frink, D.D (1998). Toward
a social context theory of the human resource management-organization effectiveness relationship.
Human Resources Management Review, Vol. 8(3), 235-264.
Gilley, J., Eggland, S., & Gilley, A. (2002). Principles of Human Resource Development. New York: Basic
Books
Hendry, C. and Pettigrew, A. (1990) “Human resource management: an agenda for the 1990s”, International
Journal of Human Resource Management, Vol. 1’ No. 1, pp. 17-43
Huselid, M.A. (1995). The impact of human resource management practices on turnover, productivity, and
corporate financial performance. The Academy of Management Journal, Vol. 38(3), 635-672.
Kumar, A. (2009). The Strategic Role of Human Resources Management.
http://www.slideshare.net/kumaravinash23/shrm-2634998
Lawler III, E. E. (1974). For a more effective organization – match the job to the man. Organizational
Dynamics, Vol. 3(1), 19–29.
Marchington, M. and Wilkinson, A. (2002) People Management and Development. London: CIPD
McNamara, C. (1999). Human Resources Management. Retrieved May 18,2005, from
http://www.mapnp.org/library/hr_mgmnt/hr_mgmnt.htm (03.02.2011)
Mohrman, S. A. & Lawler III, E. E. (1997). Transforming the human resource function. Human Resource
Management, Vol. 36(1), 157-162.
Ozcelik, G. & Ferman, M. (2006). Competency approach to human resources management: Outcomes and
contributions in a Turkish cultural context. Human Resources Development Review, Vol. 5(1), 72-91.
Price, A. (2007). Human Resource Management in a Business Context. (3th Ed.). London: Thomson
Business Press.
Robinson D. (1997)”HR information systems: stand and deliver” Institute for Employment Studies, Report
335, IES, Brighton
Rose, R. C. & Kumar, N. (2006). The influence of organizational and human resource management strategies
on performance. Performance Improvement, Vol. 45(4), 18-24.
Savaş, A.T.(2006). Eleman Seçiminde Yetkinlik Bazlı Mülakat Teknikleri , Anka Matbaacılık, ISBN
975906023X , İstanbul , p 8
Schneider, B., Hanges, P.J., Smith, D.B. and Salvaggio, A.N. (2003). Which comes first: Employee attitudes
or organizational financial and market performance? Journal of Applied Psychology, Vol. 88(5), 836851.
Taylor, J. C. & Stern, Gary M. (2009). The Trouble With HR: An Insider’s Guide to Finding and Keeping
the Best Talent. ISBN 9780814413449. American Management Association.New York, p65
Truss C (2001) Complexities and Controversies in Linking HRM with Organizational Outcomes, Journal of
Management Studies 38(8): 1121-1149
Uyargil, C. (2010), İnsan Kaynakları Yönetimi, 5.Baskı, Beta Basım, İstanbul, p.3.
Zellars, K.L. & Fiorito, J. (1999). Evaluations of organizational effectiveness among HR managers: Cues and
implications. Journal of Managerial Issues, Vol. 11(1), 37- 55.

94

